
WASHINGTON — The Obama administration received multiple warnings from national security officials between 2014 and 2016 that the Kremlin was ramping up its intelligence operations and building disinformation networks it could use to disrupt the U.S. political system, according to more than half a dozen current and former officials.
As early as 2014, the administration received a report that quoted a well-connected Russian source as saying that the Kremlin was building a disinformation arm that could be used to interfere in Western democracies. The report, according to an official familiar with it, included a quote from the Russian source telling U.S. officials in Moscow, “You have no idea how extensive these networks are in Europe … and in the U.S., Russia has penetrated media organizations, lobbying firms, political parties, governments and militaries in all of these places.”
That report was circulated among the National Security Council, intelligence agencies, and the State Department via secure email and cable in the spring of 2014 as part of a larger assessment of Russian intentions in Ukraine, the official said.
There was no explicit warning of a threat to U.S. elections, but the official said some diplomats and national security officials in Moscow felt the administration was too quick to dismiss the possibility that the Kremlin incursions could reach the United States.
“Even if the Russians and [Russian President Vladimir] Putin had these ambitions, they were doubtful of their capacity to execute them,” the official said of the Obama administration.
Former White House officials, requesting anonymity to discuss intelligence reporting, confirmed that the administration began receiving increased traffic in 2014 about Russian disinformation and covert influence in campaigns, but said they did not recall receiving that specific warning about Russian inroads in the United States.
Ned Price, a former spokesperson for the National Security Council, rejected the idea that the administration failed to heed warnings about Russian interference in the U.S. political system or Russian cyberespionage in general.
“The Obama administration was nothing but proactive in responding to Russian aggression in all of its forms, especially as Moscow became more brazen with and following its military moves against Ukraine beginning in 2014,” Price said, citing sanctions and increased American support to NATO as evidence of the former administration’s seriousness.
But subsequent events — including Russia’s interference in the American election through hacks of the emails of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, among other intrusions identified by U.S. intelligence — have left many in the former administration wondering if they could have done more.
“People have criticized us … for not coming out more forcefully and saying it,” former CIA Director John Brennan said at the Aspen National Forum in July. “There was no playbook for this.”
On October 7, 2016, about a month before the election, the administration revealed, through a statement from the director of national intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security, that the U.S. government believed Russia was behind the hacks and was seeking to interfere with the election. The revelation, which many in the White House expected to be bombshell news, was largely overshadowed by the revelation that same day of Donald Trump’s “Access Hollywood” tape in which he made crude and sexist comments to anchor Billy Bush.
But others in the national security community say an overly cautious Obama White House could have done more both during the campaign and in the previous months and years to alert Russia that it was aware of its intentions to subvert the U.S. democracy — along with those of some other Western countries — and would retaliate forcefully at the first sign of Russian interference.
POLITICO spoke with more than a dozen current and former officials from across the national security spectrum, including intelligence agencies, the State Department and the Pentagon. Almost all said they were aware of Russia’s aggressive cyberespionage and disinformation campaigns — especially after the dramatic Russian attempt to hack Ukrainian elections in 2014 – but felt that either the White House or key agencies were unwilling to act forcefully to counter the Russian actions.
“[Intelligence officials] had a list of things they could never get the sign-offs on,” one intelligence official said. “The truth is, nobody wanted to piss off the Russians.”
Among the strategies put forward prior to the 2016 election were closing two Russian dachas in Maryland and New York, which were long suspected of being Russian intelligence sites, expelling diplomats, and engaging in counterintelligence operations that would alert Putin to the United States’ determination to strike back against any attempts at interference in the U.S. political system.
Officials outside the White House blamed micromanagement by the National Security Council for the lack of a more forceful response, while a former NSC official says any failure to act forcefully against Russia was because of concerns by the State Department and, less frequently, the Defense Department about potential retaliation by Moscow.
“The frustrations [about lack of forceful action] are justified and, frankly, were shared by the White House,” said the former official, who requested anonymity due to their continuing work in Russia.
“The options were being discussed. They weren’t being implemented,” that official added.
The State Department and Pentagon often objected to harsher measures endorsed by the intelligence community, one official said, a difference in perspective that some attributed to the fact that diplomatic staff and defense attaches were obvious targets of retaliation, rather that intelligence officers who usually work undercover.
Concerns about Russian cyberespionage and election-mongering largely grew out of the events following Russia’s annexation of Crimea in March, 2014, followed by an aggressive Russian effort to influence the Ukrainian presidential election that May.
A Russia-backed cyberattack against Ukraine’s voting infrastructure during the May election was thwarted at the eleventh hour. The cyber intrusions — which in some cases could have changed voter tallies — were discovered just hours before what could have been catastrophic outcomes.
“The reports from sources deep inside the Russian government were alarming,” one current U.S. official who served under the Obama administration said. “We started getting stuff in April, May [of 2014] that was extraordinary about the extent of the threat and the capacities the Russians were building.”
“We were worried [Putin] would try to test us,” recalled a former Obama administration official.
The Ukraine crisis — coupled with the Kremlin’s embrace of National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden, who continues to be granted asylum by Moscow — was a sobering moment for the White House, one recently departed intelligence officer and the current administration official said.
Yet the administration still was reluctant to engage in more forceful counterintelligence strategies against the Kremlin, including more aggressively tracking and tailing Russian operatives within the United States, according to five of the officials who spoke to POLITICO.
Those outside the White House said they received frustrating mixed messages: the White House would subsequently dismiss Moscow’s capabilities while also citing fear of an escalation with Putin.
Price, the former National Security Council spokesman, denied those claims.
“We responded with the same clarity of purpose following Moscow’s aggression against U.S. officials in Russia and, of course, in the face of the Kremlin’s attempt to undermine the integrity of our electoral process,” he said.
But several senior intelligence and administration officials recall it differently.
“It just seemed like it was difficult, especially after the Crimea and the Ukraine … there still wasn’t a willingness to more heartily engage in the effort,” the former intelligence officer said.
In one particularly frustrating instance, officials said, they reiterated a longstanding desire to shut down the two Russian dachas in Maryland and New York. Amid escalating tensions, it was often presented as a way to send a message to Moscow.
“For quite some time, it was an active option. Secretary Kerry refused to consider it,” the former NSC official said. “We were getting pushback from the head of the agency being harassed. That was a constant frustration.”
Former Secretary of State John Kerry was overseas and unavailable for comment. But a former senior State Department official, speaking as a representative of Kerry, saw it differently. “Kerry agreed to shut down the dachas, but had not settled on the timing,” the official said.
Tensions finally reached a fever pitch in the summer of 2016. Just days before Russian operatives began releasing troves of stolen DNC emails, a CIA officer under official diplomatic cover was brutally beaten outside the U.S. embassy in Moscow. The officer managed to slip to safety inside the door of the U.S. compound, but was immediately evacuated for medical care.
U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials worked frantically to compile retaliatory options for the Obama White House. Despite being presented with several strategies — including more aggressively tailing Russian diplomats in the U.S. — it opted to do nothing immediately.
“There was some real anger,” the former intelligence officer said. “We weren’t going to mug anybody, but we could at least be more overt in our coverages. We could expel some people, we could do more overt surveillance on people.”
Another former intelligence official put it this way: “The longer we don’t push back, the harder they push.”
Even after the release of emails designed to damage Clinton’s campaign, the White House was reluctant to respond, something that several recently departed Obama-era officials have lamented.
After compiling a list of potential retaliatory options in the summer of 2016 — including kicking out more than 100 Russian diplomats, one official told POLITICO — the pushback from national security agencies was so great and varied, the NSC official said, that for months nothing was done.
“Any of these actions risked a Russian reciprocation,” the former NSC official said. “We were kind of caught in a catch-22.”
After the election, in December, the White House finally announced the expulsion of 35 diplomats and ordered the Kremlin officials out of the two Russian-owned dachas.
But in a further indication of the tensions within the Obama team, Kerry rejected suggestions that he personally break the news of the expulsions and closing of the dachas to Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, the former NSC official said. Instead, the job was left to Pat Kennedy, one of Kerry’s undersecretaries.
The former State Department official, speaking for Kerry, said the option of having Kerry communicate the expulsions and closing of the dachas to Lavrov was never discussed. But the former NSC official was unmoved.
“The idea of having Kerry doing it with Lavrov was raised several times and he didn’t want to do it,” the NSC official said.
The expulsions and closing of the dachas were symbolic moves that stung the Kremlin, but for many intelligence officers, it was too little too late.
While some Obama White House officials privately concede that they, too, wish there had been a more forceful response, others stand by the decisions that were made.
“People at the working level don’t necessarily understand” the full scope of policy implications, one former White House official said.
Now, to the further frustration of some intelligence officers, there is little indication that, for all Trump’s bluster, he’ll be tougher on the Kremlin. In his first months in office, Trump has signaled a willingness to work with Moscow on several fronts, and has pushed back hard against his own intelligence community’s assessment that Russia actively worked to elect him to the presidency.
It’s a bitter pill for many who see Trump’s election as the inevitable, but avoidable outcome of years’ worth of counterintelligence failings against Russia.
“They were warned. They underestimated it until it was too late,” the current administration official said of the Obama White House and Russia, with a tinge of bitterness. “They just didn’t know how to deal with the bad guys.”
The German election is a referendum on whether the country should join Donald Trump’s “weapons madness,” by upping its military spending, according to Sigmar Gabriel, a leading figure in the center left Social Democratic Party.
Gabriel, who is also foreign minister in Germany’s coalition government, accused Chancellor Angela Merkel of kowtowing to the U.S. president with her commitment to boost the country’s defense budget.
The forthcoming federal elections in September will be “a vote on whether Germany remains a peaceful power or joins Trump’s weapons madness,” Gabriel said in an interview with Germany’s RedaktionsNetzwerk newspapers. Like Trump, Merkel’s Christian Democrats “want to put all their money into weapons and cut social spending,” he said.
The chancellor’s position to “practically voluntarily bend over and promise to double the German military budget after the Bundestag election is nothing less than a sign to Trump that they will give in to his pressure,” Gabriel added.
Faced with poor poll results, the SPD has in recent weeks upped its criticism of Merkel and her defense policy, suggesting she isn’t taking a strong enough stance against Trump. It is lagging behind Merkel’s conservatives by between 14 and 17 percentage points in election polls, six weeks before Germans cast their votes on September 24.
Gabriel’s comments come days after SPD leaders, including Martin Schulz who is in the running to take over the chancellorship, rejected the NATO commitment to spend two percent of GDP on defense.
“We think this is the wrong way, and with the SPD in the government there will be no such thing,” Thomas Oppermann, chair of the SPD parliamentary group, told Rheinische Post.
Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen, of Merkel’s Christian Democrats, later defended the target saying it was in Europe’s best interest that Berlin keeps its word on meeting the NATO commitment. The SPD’s rhetoric, she added, was part of a “totally messed up election campaign.”
Rome can’t cope with the migration crisis alone but has been abandoned by Europe, Italian Foreign Minister Angelino Alfano said in an interview with Bild published Sunday.
Asked whether he felt Italy had been abandoned by other European countries, Alfano said: “A very clear yes,” pointing to the failure of EU governments to agree on a new burden-sharing mechanism proposed by the European Commission last year.
“Italy is contributing, but we cannot cope with this burden alone,” he said, before acknowledging “the only solution” to ensuring fewer migrants reach Italy “is in Libya.”
Alfano refused to criticize German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose 2015 open-door policy towards refugees (since abandoned), led to a sharp increase in asylum seekers traveling to Europe.
Merkel “was on the right side of the story in 2015, she showed leadership, with strength and courage. That was impressive,” Alfano said, noting that most of those trying to enter the EU now are from African countries rather than the Middle East.
In recent months, Austria, which goes to the polls in October, has threatened to send troops to its border with Italy in a bid to stop migrants crossing. Alfano dismissed this, saying:”This is pure election campaigning, which we do not take seriously.”
“A year ago they had already spoken of a wall in Austria. But the truth is: There is no problem at all. Our borders are clearly sealed. It is impossible for the migrants to travel to other countries. We’ll take care of that,” he added.
In recent days, several NGOs operating search-and-rescue missions in the Mediterranean have suspended their operations due to what they describe as intolerable conditions imposed by the Italian government after allegations surfaced that some NGOs were working with traffickers to pick up migrants. The NGOs also cited restrictions imposed on them by the Libyan government, which last week banned them from operating off the coast under pressure from European governments.
Deadly clashes between far-right protesters and left-wing activists in the U.S. town of Charlottesville, Virgina at the weekend dominated European headlines Monday, with many highlighting the fact U.S. President Donald Trump did not condemn right-wing extremists in a statement released Saturday in response to the violence. Spain’s La Vanguardia decried “Virginia’s fascist revolt” and the “tepidity” of Trump’s response. France’s Libération wrote: “In the streets of Charlottesville, no pointy hoods, but the Aryan slogan ‘blood and soil’ and Nazi ‘heil.’”
TAZ led its front page with a striking night-time shot of right-wing protestors demonstrating through the streets of Charlottesville, holding tiki lanterns. The paper wrote: “Thousands of Nazis demonstrate in Charlottesville,” a “right-wing extremist” plows into a crowd with his car, leaving a woman dead, “And what does Donald Trump do?”
Die Welt featured a story on Martin Schulz, leader of Germany’s SPD and former European Parliament president, taking aim at Chancellor Angela Merkel’s record on security, saying he would boost police salaries if elected.


Many British papers also led their front pages with news out of Charlottesville, with the Guardian highlighting how politicians on all sides had “rounded on” Trump for not condemning the far-right protesters more clearly. “President fails to blame white supremacists,” the paper noted.
The Daily Express led with a story reporting on “Fury at ploy to get second EU vote.” The tabloid referred to a weekend op-ed in the Observer by David Miliband, a former Labour foreign secretary, calling for a second referendum on EU membership. “Fears were raised last night that opponents of Brexit will push for a second referendum,” the paper blasted.


A debate is raging across much of Southern Europe about the impact of tourists on cities, with El País highlighting the fact that 80 million visitors were set to arrive in Spain this year. “How many tourists can fit in Spain?” the paper asked. El País also ran a story on a strike taking place at Barcelona’s El Prat airport, resulting in the Civil Guard being called in.


Charlottesville also dominated France’s front pages. Libération led with a photo of the right-wing protestors in front of the University of Virginia, with the headline: “The White House.” The paper wrote: “Supporters of white supremacy, nostalgic southern Confederates and neo-Nazis marched through the streets of Charlottesville, Virginia, Friday and Saturday. The participants of this demonstration of strength no longer feared showing their faces.”
Le Figaro criticized Trump’s foreign policy, questioning how far the U.S. president was willing to escalate hostilities with North Korea and Venezuela.


Le Soir led its front page with a story suggesting 853 Belgian companies had moved €221 billion to tax havens including Monaco, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands. De Standaard wrote there was no longer a taboo around the chemical castration of sex offenders in Flanders, where 36 sex offenders have been given the treatment.


Inside President Donald Trump’s White House, no one seems to be looking forward to September.
Senior officials have described the coming month as “brutal,” “bad” or “really tough” because of the confluence of complicated issues — but they also say it’s pivotal to getting the presidency back on course.
Aides hope to have a better blueprint for how the president wants to proceed on a series of thorny issues — the nation’s debt ceiling, the 2018 federal budget, tax reform, infrastructure spending and perhaps another stab at repealing Obamacare — after a series of meetings in New York this week.
Their goal is to partially temper Trump’s expectations, hammer out some compromises and get a competing band of aides on the same page. The month has taken on outsize importance among some top aides and outside advisers, who view it as key to getting the presidency on a better track.
“The stakes are very high in September,” said Jenny Beth Martin, who leads the Tea Party Patriots, a conservative grass-roots group. “There is a lot to do in a very short period of time.”
Trump, who is impatient, wants it all done immediately, said people close to the president — and he has ratcheted up pressure on aides in recent weeks, even though he doesn’t always engage with the substance of issues.
What makes the month harder is that many of the fights are in Congress, where the president and his team have little control.
“The president has made clear his commitment to getting health care, tax reform and infrastructure passed in Congress. There shouldn’t have to be a choice,” said Kelly Love, a White House spokeswoman.
Trump’s aides have prepared lengthy memos and presentations on the legislative calendar for Trump in New York and Washington next week to see how he wants to handle the policy debates.
The fights come as White House aides expect investigations into Russian collusion to heat up and amid a newly rocky relationship with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell following a series of critical tweets and comments from Trump during his Bedminster, New Jersey, retreat last week. Other critical decisions are approaching, such as finalizing a strategy for Afghanistan and choosing whether to suspend the payment of Obamacare subsidies that keep insurance markets functioning smoothly.
And the president is increasingly venting about the apparent inability of the Republican Congress to agree on legislation, especially the Senate’s high-profile failure to agree on legislation repealing Obamacare. He has told others he will distance himself from any failures, even as some of his aides push him to cultivate stronger relationships on Capitol Hill.
“The Republicans in Congress only seem to be efficient at one thing: coordinating hearings on Russia with the Democrats,” said Sam Nunberg, a longtime Trump aide who left him in 2015 but still talks to administration officials. “At least they can get that done.”
September also presents several fights about which Trump’s aides aren’t in agreement. Fault lines are already coming into view, even as Marc Short, the head of legislative affairs, is trying to get everyone on the same page ahead of the Trump Tower meetings, several administration officials said.
A successful September for many in the administration would include keeping the government open, passing a budget without too much of a showdown, securing some money for the long-promised border wall and beginning talks on tax reform, officials said, while continuing to work on the health care issue.
But other Trump aides have loftier expectations. For some, such as strategist SteveBannon and his allies, securing money for the wall is a fight worth having. Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney would like spending cuts as part of raising the debt ceiling, but it remains unclear how hard he would be willing to battle for them.
Short is pushing to handle many of the budget issues quickly and to try to move quickly to tax reform, a strategy supported by Gary Cohn, the president’s economic adviser, and Steven Mnuchin, his Treasury secretary. But advisers are still wrangling with the fine details of a tax plan. Bannon wants a higher tax on the wealthy, which could go nowhere, and while he previously wasn’t involved in health care, Bannon has recently inserted himself into that fight, administration officials said.
The top headaches for Trump’s White House are the Sept. 30 deadlines for raising the debt ceiling and funding the upcoming year’s budget. The White House also wants to push agenda items, like more border money and defense spending, while also trying to curb deficits. White House officials, including Bannon, Short and chief of staff John Kelly, have told others they expect those fights to be messy.
The outcome that some White House officials fear is a three-month budgetextension, only postponing the fight until December. Internally, White House officials are still battling over spending levels in the budget, according to several administration officials. Pressure is likely to rise from the conservative House Freedom Caucus for spending cuts for a budget and the debt ceiling, creating another clash with moderates like the one that tanked health care reform.
Trump, aides said, is determined to get money for the wall and immigration measures — and he is likely to balk at any plan that doesn’t give him a win on a signature campaign issue.
Advisers are also deciding whether it makes sense to put considerable effort into reviving the health care fight immediately, as Trump wants to do, and whether to delay tax reform for a month or so while handling other issues — a move that would dismay important outside constituencies. “Tax reform isn’t going to come out as soon as we first wanted,” said one senior administration official with direct knowledge of the negotiations.
A number of senior officials would quietly prefer to leave health care alone after a bruising fight that climaxed in Trump’s public clashes with McConnell. While some White House officials have worked quietly with governors on securing support for a state-based block grant plan, and others have worked with the Freedom Caucus on a repeal-only vote, there is little sign of momentum, senior White House officials said.
Trump wants health care done quickly, even as many in the Senate would like to move on. The president, who is combative, doesn’t like to be seen compromising — and often focuses on an issue only after he has lost and received the public sting. “He thinks if we don’t get health care done, we’re losers,” said one adviser who speaks with him often.
On Friday, the House Freedom Caucus vowed to push a repeal-only bill, which quickly secured support from conservative groups like the Club for Growth. Martin, the head of Tea Party Patriots, said she delivered more than a million signatures to the White House calling for the repeal of Obamacare. A bill would likely fail in the Senate, though, and take valuable time from the White House, which needs legislative wins by the end of the year. The Club for Growth said it would score lawmakers on the vote, a move meant to threaten them.
“We hear about repealing Obamacare from the grass roots every day,” Martin said.
For many in Trump’s White House, tax reform is the greater priority. Short and other senior aides have met with senators and important outside constituencies, like the network of groups backed by the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch.
Tim Phillips, who leads Americans for Prosperity, one of the largest groups in the Koch network, said his donors are most focused on that, and outside groups say the administration has seemed far better prepared on tax reform than on health care.
“Our view is it’s all about tax reform,” said Scott Reed, chief strategist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Success would help turn the page on all the drama of the White House so far.”
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia — Violence and division gripped this affluent college town for the third straight day on Sunday, where everyone was still processing the death of a 32-year-old protester and two police officers — and almost everyone was still angry, or frightened.
In the wake of Saturday’s deadly clashes between white nationalist protesters, counter-protesters and police, those remaining on the ground here pointed their fingers at a variety of culprits: white supremacists, anti-fascist “antifa” demonstrators, city officials, police and President Donald Trump. Meanwhile, self-branded “alt-light” figures around the country followed Trump’s pox-on-both-your-houses lead, offering explanations for the weekend’s bloodshed that minimized the role of white supremacy.
At 2 p.m. in Charlottesville, under the watch of police snipers stationed on a nearby rooftop, the organizer of Saturday’s white nationalist “Unite the Right” protest tried and failed to hold a press conference in front of city hall. But the organizer, freelance journalist Jason Kessler, was shouted down by a crowd of about 200 chanting, “Shame” and “Say her name,” a reference to the late Heather Heyer, the victim of Saturday’s alleged vehicular homicide at the hands of protest attendee James Alex Fields. Kessler — whose Twitter bio says he has written for the Daily Caller, a site founded by Fox News hosted Tucker Carlson, as well as internet troll Charles Johnson’s GotNews — made a show of checking his watch and fiddling with his smartphone as he waited for the crowd’s shouts to die down. When the shouting persisted, Kessler began speaking into the assembled microphones anyway, but his words were inaudible. Within minutes, two men had stepped through the ring of journalists encircling Kessler, and began shouting in his face. As journalists and the crowd pushed in closer, a scuffle broke out. Kessler escaped around the building’s corner and up the street, which was quickly sealed off by police in riot gear.
One of the two men who had approached Kessler stood in front of the police line chanting, “No airtime for Kessler,” and “No protection, no airtime.” The man, who sported a salt-and-pepper goatee and faded yellow polo shirt, declined to be interviewed. Others chanted, “Murderer” at Kessler, who had disappeared from view.
Erin Cook, 25, an employee of UVA’s childcare center, said she was already seeing “segregation” in the town in the wake of Saturday’s violence. “Everyone’s sticking to their own kind,” she said, adding that she has heard people talk of moving away from Charlottesville, for fear that that tensions here will only grow worse.
Cook said that her four-year-old daughter was “screaming uncontrollably” on Saturday, unable to make sense of chaos she was seeing unfold on television and hearing outside their nearby home. Cook, who is black, said she fears that her daughter will come to have a different understanding of the events than her white best friend, driving a racial wedge between them before they even reach grade school.
Cook said she has also heard from friends around the country over the course of the weekend. “A lot of them are saying, ‘I’m looking at white people differently’” she said. “It shouldn’t be like that.”
***
Nobody died on Sunday, thankfully — but the specter of Saturday’s violence hung over the city.
Following Kessler’s foiled press conference, organizers from the Revolutionary Communist Party addressed several dozen anti-racism protesters with bullhorns on the town’s brick-paved Main Street. Candice Maupin, 38, her injured left arm wrapped in a colorful plaster cast, rested an aluminum baseball bat on her shoulder. “I can’t fight with one arm so I need the bat,” she said. “We are going to protect ourselves by any means necessary.”
Patrick LaForte, 35, said he drove from South Carolina to attend Saturday’s rally and had been on his way home when he caught word of Kessler’s press conference and turned his car around. A burly white man with a red beard, LaForte said he and his three equally burly companions returned to the scene out of a desire to provide Kessler with physical protection, though the press conference had been shut down by the time they arrived.
LaForte said the violence directed at the white nationalist protesters violated their First Amendment rights, and he lamented growing divisions in American society.
“There’s not a common culture anymore,” said LaForte, a regular reader of the neo-Nazi website the Daily Stormer. “Now anybody, no matter how small or weird the group, can insulate themselves inside their own internet echo chambers.”
Yards away, the usual Sunday crowd dined al fresco on Main Street in the shade. Sandwich boards outside many of the upscale shops proclaimed support for love, tolerance and diversity. On the approach to Emancipation Park, the site of Saturday’s rally—and home to the object at the center of the explosion of racial tensions, a statue of General Robert E. Lee—a banner strung up over Market Street declared, “DIVERSITY makes us STRONGER,” along with a cross, a crescent, a star of David, a handicap symbol, a rainbow and a clenched fist.
At the park, a homeless man had returned to what locals said was his usual post on one of stone benches surrounding the Lee statue, whose planned removal was the stated occasion for the “Unite the Right” protest. On another bench sat Marie Stern, 48, with her husband. The couple had driven 60 miles from their home near Quantico on Sunday morning to demonstrate their opposition to racism and violence. Stern, who wore a shirt from the Women’s March on Washington, has had trouble sleeping since Trump’s election. “All of this, in our opinion, is related to him,” she said, citing the president’s failure to offer any robust denunciations of white supremacy. “It’s what he’s not saying.”
John Ratalsky, 61, sat on another bench next to a dog-eared Bible held together with masking tape and said he saw a parable in an unusual sight he had just come across: excrement on the ground in the tidy town of Charlottesville. “God is telling me that what happened yesterday is flies on shit,” he said, going on to condemn the protesters, the counter-protesters and the officials who permitted the assembly to go forward. “Next time, if they don’t give a permit to the shit, the flies won’t come.”
***
Outside of Charlottesville, the weekend’s events have also posed a dilemma for figures that have emerged from the pro-Trump internet fringe and occupy an ideological territory adjacent to the alt-right. Labeling themselves the “alt-light,” they’ve sought to distance themselves from crude displays of overt racism.
Yet rather than issue Sister Souljah-esque condemnations of the alt-right, several of those figures instead offered narratives for the weekend’s events that minimized the role of white supremacy.
“Identity politics is ugly no matter where it comes from, and it always leads to horrors,” said pro-Trump provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos. “But the situation America now finds itself in is almost entirely a creation of the progressive left. Progressives nurture and feed the disgruntled white working class with their crusades against ‘straight white men’ and then cry foul when their chickens come home to roost.”
Gavin McInnes, the founder of the pro-Trump “Western chauvinist fraternal organization” the Proud Boys, blamed the city of Charlottesville for its efforts to block the white nationalists from demonstrating against the removal of a statue of Lee from Emancipation Park. “This is a free country and the city f–ked up by denying them a permit,” he said. “The blood is on their hands.”
McInnes, a co-founder of VICE Media who left the company years ago and declined to participate in Saturday’s event, said white supremacists deserved blame for Saturday’s mayhem but that ultimate responsibility lies elsewhere. “The left created these assholes,” he said.
Peter Duke, who has become a semi-official photographer of leaders of the alt-right and “alt-light,” focused on his theory that young people on both sides of standoffs like this weekend’s are alienated from reality and using political street conflicts to live out their fantasies. He described their activities as “LARPing” or live action role-playing, a hobby most commonly associated with people who act out “Dungeons & Dragons”-style fantasy games, dressed as wizards and knights. He also linked Saturday’s vehicular homicide to “Grand Theft Auto,” a popular video game in which players frequently mow down pedestrians with cars. “These people play video games and think if they dress up like their favorite characters, they are sending some kind of message,” he said. “They are virtue-signaling through a costume.”
Meanwhile, white nationalist figurehead Richard Spencer, who championed Saturday’s rally and has announced a press conference on Monday in Washington to address the weekend’s violence, faulted logistics.
“Kessler did nothing morally wrong,” he said. “However, his organizing left a lot to be desired.”
U.S. Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday evening criticized the media for its coverage of President Donald Trump’s remarks Saturday on the violence in Charlottesville, VIrginia.
Speaking during a visit to the South American nation of Colombia, Pence said it was appropriate to criticize not only the white supremacists behind the “Unite the Right” march but also counter-protesters on the scene.
“I will say I take issue with the fact that many in the national media spent more time criticizing the president’s words than they did criticizing those that perpetrated the violence to begin with,” he said, speaking in a joint news conference with Colombia’s president, Juan Manuel Santos.
“We should be putting the attention where it belongs, and that is on those extremist groups that need to be pushed out of the public debate entirely and discredited for the hate groups and dangerous fringe groups that they are.”
In his Saturday statement, Trump condemned the violence but made it clear he blamed not only the white supremacists but also others on the scene. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides,” the president said. He then repeated “on many sides.”
Pence clarified that neither he nor the president intended to let the white supremacist groups off the hook for their behavior or their attitudes.
“We have no tolerance for hate and violence from white supremacists, neo-Nazis or the KKK. These dangerous fringe groups have no place in American public life and in the American debate, and we condemn them in the strongest possible terms,” he said.
Critics assailed the president for setting up a false equivalence, particularly since the worst of the mayhem was caused by a driver associated with the white supremacists who, police said, drove into a crowd of counter-protesters, killing one woman, a 32-year-old paralegal named Heather Heyer, and injuring 19 other people. The driver, a 20-year-old Ohio man named James Alex Fields Jr., has been charged with second-degree murder and other crimes.
In his remarks Sunday, the vice president made it clear that he also had no sympathy for the groups that confronted the white supremacists as they marched.
“The president also made clear that behavior by others of different militant perspectives are also unacceptable in our political debate and discourse.”
Pence also backed the Department of Justice’s efforts to see that those responsible for the violence during the weekend would be prosecuted, as well as offering sympathy and support for the Charlottesville community.
“What happened in Charlottesville is a tragedy,” he said. “Charlottesville, Virginia, is a beautiful community, a university town with a rich heritage. President Santos’ son just graduated from the University of Virginia, and the president himself spoke on that campus. What occurred there, as local and state officials have said, is in no way a reflection of the good and decent people of Charlottesville or of America.”
BUDAPEST — As Hungary enters what is widely expected to be an aggressive campaign season, the ruling Fidesz party and far-right Jobbik appear to be in the process of switching places.
Unless the fractious leftist and liberal opposition parties band together, Hungary’s spring 2018 election may end up as a contest between two nationalist, anti-migration, and largely pro-Russian parties.
But while Fidesz is adopting rhetoric once reserved for the fringes of the political spectrum, Jobbik is moving in the opposite direction, desperately trying to appeal to centrists and save itself from political irrelevance.
“A threatening demographic catastrophe is … being exacerbated by an ethnic proportional shift,” read Jobbik’s policy platform in 2010. At a time when it was still a political taboo to refer to ethnic homogeneity, it was the only party openly advocating for boosting Hungary’s white Christian population.
Seven years on, preserving the ethnic status quo is now the centerpiece of Orbán’s platform.
“Those who want to loosen the fabric of European culture and want a mixed population are serving a bad cause, and are acting against the will of the majority of Europeans and Hungarians,” Orbán said in a radio interview on July 21.
Hungarian politicians, including people in Orbán’s own party, see adopting some far-right rhetoric and policies as part of his electoral strategy. Jobbik won 20 percent of the popular vote in 2014, and is currently the second-largest party in parliament after Fidesz.
“Orbán feared he would be attacked from the right” when the migration crisis began, said a senior Fidesz official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
So Orbán’s government built a fence along Hungary’s southern border and refused to participate in the EU’s migrant quota scheme. Opposition to migration became the main theme of every government speech and Orbán media appearance, sweeping aside most other policy issues.
“Politically it was a smart decision” to outflank Jobbik on migration policy, said the official, adding: “On other issues I would not characterize [Fidesz] as far right. It’s a Central European mixture.”
For many of Orbán’s opponents, the prime minister’s stance on migration is just one sign that the line between what used to be regarded as a center-right party and the far right has blurred.
Fidesz is “not really different from Jobbik,” said Péter Juhász, the head of liberal opposition party Együtt.
Critics point to Fidesz’s decision to honor controversial World War II-era political figures, the party’s portrayal of Jewish Hungarian-born U.S. financier George Soros as a puppet master controlling all government critics and independent media, and the establishment of a day of remembrance for the 1920 Treaty of Trianon — where Hungary lost two-thirds of its territory — as proof that the ruling party is adopting nationalist, irredentist, and anti-Semitic rhetoric once primarily associated with Jobbik.
Orbán “adapts his political views to what he feels helps him most to get popular support,” said Géza Jeszenszky, a former conservative politician who served as foreign minister under Hungary’s first democratically elected government.
“As he is losing many centrist, center-right voters — due to his anti-Western, anti-solidarity policies — he feels he can win over more from the radical right,” he said.
Outflanked by Fidesz on migration and faced with a government that has co-opted its nationalist rhetoric, Jobbik is trying to turn into a more mainstream force that appeals to disenchanted Fidesz supporters. Formally, the party now focuses on highlighting government corruption and promoting economic goals like a European wage union, rather than identity issues.
“Jobbik has matured from a radical niche party into a people’s party capable of governing the country, while Fidesz has changed from a governing people’s party into an extremist party that is willing to do anything for power,” Gábor Vona, Jobbik’s leader, wrote in a statement to POLITICO.
“By running the anti-Soros campaign, Fidesz attempts to collect Jobbik’s right-wing voters, while an increasingly large group of the civic, conservative intelligentsia is turning toward Jobbik,” he wrote.
But many voters don’t find Jobbik’s new stance convincing.
“There is no evidence that Jobbik is strengthening” as a result of its attempts to appeal to the center, said Bulcsú Hunyadi, a senior analyst at the Budapest-based Political Capital Institute, adding “there are big conflicts” within the party itself over its ideological identity and political future.
The party has not disavowed its openly racist members, and one Jobbik MP recently announced an initiative to take away voting rights from citizens who don’t have an elementary school diploma, a move widely seen as an effort to disenfranchise members of the Roma minority.
As Fidesz moves further to the right, some far-right ideas are also resonating with a large segment of Hungarian voters.
Fidesz’s control of all regional media outlets, state media and the vast majority of private national news outlets has helped the party shape the thinking of much of the population: Articles and television segments on the threats allegedly posed by Muslim migrants and George Soros are featured prominently in both state-owned and Fidesz-controlled private media.
At the same time, experts like Hunyadi at Political Capital believe Orbán is adroitly appealing to long-standing fears within Hungarian society.
“There is very strong anti-migrant sentiment across society. Most Hungarians have never seen a refugee. It’s a symbolic fear,” said Hunyadi. “The political role of the anti-Soros campaign is the same as the anti-refugee campaign … The population is very anti-foreign and anti-minority.”
The impact can be seen in opinion polls.
In a spring 2017 survey of 38 countries, the Pew Research Center found Hungary was the only country where a “large number of refugees leaving countries like Iraq and Syria” was deemed the biggest threat.
Hungarians’ fears differ from countries that host a large number of asylum seekers: In Italy, respondents pointed to the Islamic State as the top threat to their country; in Greece, it was the state of the global economy.
A Pew survey one year earlier found that Hungarians are more nationalist than some of their European counterparts. When asked whether being born in the country is very important for being truly Hungarian, 52 percent of Hungarians said yes — compared to 42 percent of Italians, 42 percent of Poles, 25 percent of French and 13 percent of Germans.
The only country surveyed where respondents were almost as nationalist as Hungarians was Greece, where 50 percent of respondents said being born in Greece is very important for being truly Greek.
But experts and officials believe that despite the population’s fears and the prevalence of prejudice, voters overall reject far-right ideology.
“Opinion polls show that the absolute majority of Hungarians still oppose extremism,” said a former conservative politician, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
PARIS — Emmanuel Macron rose to power thanks to a grass-roots political movement proud of its scrappy “startup” ethos.
Now, the French president’s party faces a common complaint against successful startups — that growth outpaced their ability to handle customers, leaving some feeling cheated.
Tiphaine Beaulieu, a teacher from eastern France who joined the party earlier this year, is on TV and radio channeling frustrations of those who feel duped by what she called the “giant swindle” of Macron’s centrist La République en Marche (LREM), in the midst of an already trying summer for the president.
While many of her gripes are vague, the central one is easy to grasp: The then-candidate Macron seduced thousands of political neophytes into working for him with the idea that they were joining an open-source party that would listen to their ideas. Now that he’s in power, they find no one willing to answer their complaints and not much of a party structure to speak of.
In short, they feel duped and used by fast-talking cadres imbued with a merciless “startup culture.”
“In the eyes of activists and elected officials who support them, En Marche is starting to look like a masquerade, a giant swindle based on praiseworthy values that only serve marketing purposes,” said Beaulieu, a one-time candidate for a parliamentary seat, adding that an advocacy group she founded to centralize complaints now counts thousands of members — a claim it was not possible to verify.
An LREM official rejected most of Beaulieu’s claims — such as that activists had been paid to participate in rallies — and chalked up her campaign to sour grapes among people who failed to win elected office, while hinting that she may have help from extreme right- and left-wing groups.
“We’re not sure what’s really motivating her here,” said the official, who requested anonymity as they were not authorized to speak on the record.
Macron’s party has a commanding majority in parliament, and there is no sign of Beaulieu’s rebellion spreading to MPs, who are only too delighted to have their seats.
But whether or not her allegations are proven, there is a risk for Macron’s party that at least some of Beaulieu’s criticism strikes a chord with a broader audience. As a candidate, Macron spoke frequently of crowdsourcing ideas and opening up French politics to outsiders — now opponents accuse him of governing arrogantly and surrounding himself with insiders.
Beaulieu’s loud, public and relentless activism could cause a headache ahead of the senatorial election in September, the European Parliament election in 2019 and municipal elections in 2020, when Macron’s party will once again need to mobilize armies of volunteers.
“A lot of local elected officials are not going to want to work with En Marche for the senatorial and municipal elections,” said Beaulieu.
For now, efforts to negotiate some sort of truce between Beaulieu and the party seem to be doomed. After she made the rounds of radio and TV in July as head of the “Angry Marchers,” Beaulieu was invited to a closed-door meeting with party representatives, which resulted in her dropping the epithet “angry” from her group’s title.
But Beaulieu did not lay down her arms. She enlisted an independent mediation firm to handle her complaints and started to threaten the party with legal action over claims that she refused to detail in emails with POLITICO.
Among the complaints that she was willing to flesh out, she cited allegations that the LREM leadership rode roughshod over party statutes by skirting democratic processes for nominating candidates; disbanded internal committees without warning; blacklisted rebellious members by deactivating their accounts in an internal IT system; systematically ignored complaints; inflated the number of active members (officially around 370,000); and had a generally “authoritarian” attitude toward activists that goes against its principles.
She also complained that Pierre Cabaré, an MP who was dropped as an official LREM candidate during the parliamentary election campaign, nevertheless ran using the party’s campaign material and today lists himself as an LREM MP on the National Assembly’s website.
A second LREM official said that Cabaré’s endorsement had been withdrawn on scanty grounds, and that he was free to join the LREM group in parliament on his own initiative. Beaulieu’s frustration over the situation had plenty to do with disappointment over a failure to get elected, the official suggested.
“After a campaign, there is always a period of reckoning,” said the official. “People invest a lot of time; there is as much joy as there is disappointment.”
But even as LREM rejected most of Beaulieu’s claims, it did say that unspecified “problems” had arisen from its field operations. In order to deal more systematically with complaints and let political currents emerge within activist ranks, the party was planning to organize a “Council” in the fall, bringing together activists, employees and elected officials. The gathering would be a much-needed “space for dialogue,” the official said.
“We’re a young movement that’s still in the process of maturing, and today we need to have structures that recognize the reality of what we’ve become,” said the LREM official.
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Sunday tried to reframe the president’s earlier, vague statement that blamed “many sides” for violence in Charlottesville, Va., a day earlier, after his comments sparked outrage from at least a dozen prominent Republican lawmakers.
In a statement, the White House sought to clarify that the president condemns violence, bigotry and hatred, and it said “of course that includes white supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazis and all extremist groups.”
The clarification came less than 24 hours after President Donald Trump seemingly blamed both white supremacists and counter-protesters for the vitriol and clashes in the Virginia college town, which resulted in three deaths and left about 20 people injured.
Democrats and civil rights groups jumped on Trump’s initial statement to cast the administration as tolerant of well-known hate groups and ill-equipped to stand for all Americans.
“He must take responsibility for his role in propagating white nationalist ideology and fueling their movement,” said Scott Simpson, Public Advocacy Director of Muslim Advocates. “We call on him to immediately denounce the white supremacy movement by name and remove those who condone white supremacy, like Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka, from the White House.”
Trump also drew criticism from his own party for the remarks, which were interpreted as too weak. “Mr. President — we must call evil by its name. These were white supremacists,” tweeted Sen. Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican.
On Sunday morning, the Trump administration tried to mollify its critics with appearances by a handful of senior administration officials on news programs.
On NBC’s “Meet the Press,” national security adviser H.R. McMaster called the Charlottesville clashes an act of “domestic terrorism.” This echoed the words of Republican lawmakers such as Sens. Gardner and Marco Rubio, who made such pronouncements on Twitter in an effort to put distance between themselves and the president.
The president’s daughter Ivanka Trump also weighed in via Twitter. “There should be no place in society for racism, white supremacy and neo-nazis,” her post read.
Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert also condemned Nazis and white supremacists after CNN journalist Jake Tapper pressed him. But this came after he first doubled down on the president’s Saturday address, also blaming “many sides” for the violence — which critics say equates the actions of the white supremacists with the counter-protesters.
Martin Schulz, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s main challenger in September’s federal election, insisted on Sunday that he could still bring home a defiant victory despite poor performances in the polls.
Schulz, the leader of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), is lagging behind Merkel’s conservatives by between 14 and 17 percentage points in election polls, six weeks before Germans cast their votes on September 24.
But in an interview with German broadcast ZDF on Sunday, the former president of the European Parliament claimed he could still run the next government and said he would be open to forming another grand coalition with Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU).
“I reckon that I have a good chance to lead the next government,” the SPD chairman said.
Schulz also had stern words for the carmakers implicated in the Dieselgate scandal, saying consumers in Germany should not have to pay for the errors of “irresponsible managers” working at the likes of Volkswagen and Daimler.
“The problem is that we are in a situation where managers who earn millions at Volkswagen and Daimler fell asleep at the wheel … and failed to invest there where they should have,” Schulz told ZDF.
The Dieselgate scandal dates back to 2015 when Volkswagen fitted engines with so-called defeat devices, or software that enabled diesel cars to perform far better in emissions tests in a laboratory than in real driving conditions.
The car-making giant admitted that 11 million cars had installed the illegal software, enabling them to spew out more poisonous nitrogen oxides than tests suggested they would.
Last month, the EU’s anti-fraud watchdog OLAF revealed that Volkswagen fraudulently secured €400 million in loans from the European Investment Bank to develop the engine at issue in the Dieselgate scandal. The company is also at the heart of recent reports that several automakers colluded to thwart competition in the automobile sector.
U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond and Trade Minister Liam Fox agreed on the need for a “time-limited interim period” to soften Brexit’s effects, signaling a truce in a protracted dispute over how Britain should leave the European Union.
After weeks of cabinet infighting and damaging headlines, Hammond — accused by Brexit hardliners of trying to water down attempts to break free of the EU after Brexit — and hard Brexit advocate Fox appeared to have reconciled their differences in a joint article for the Sunday Telegraph.
“We believe a time-limited interim period will be important to further our national interest and give business greater certainty — but it cannot be indefinite; it cannot be a back door to staying in the EU,” the ministers wrote.
Hammond and Fox stated that during the transition period, “our borders must continue to operate smoothly; goods bought on the internet must still cross borders; businesses must still be able to supply their customers across the EU and our innovative, world-leading companies must be able to hire the talent they need, including from within the EU.”
Hammond previously argued that any Brexit deal should see little change on matters such as immigration due to threats to the labor market and spillover effects on the economy. Fox, meanwhile, argued that unregulated free movement of labor post-Brexit would “not keep faith” with the EU referendum result, forcing No. 10 to clarify that freedom of movement would end by 2019.
The joint article comes as May’s government prepares to publish three papers promising to lay the ground for the next round of Brexit negotiations in Brussels at the end of August.
The papers will set out the U.K.’s plan for the post-Brexit border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, address the availability of goods for the EU and the U.K. and access to official documents following the U.K.’s withdrawal.
“Once the interim period is over, we want a permanent, treaty-based arrangement between the U.K. and the EU which supports the closest possible relationship with the European Union, retaining close ties of security, trade and commerce,” Hammond and Fox said.
They also underlined that Britain would operate outside the single market and customs union after Brexit.
“We will leave the customs union and be free to negotiate the best trade deals around the world as an independent, open, trading nation,” the ministers said, adding that the government was committed to make sure there “will not be a cliff-edge when we leave the EU in just over 20 months’ time.”
French President Emmanuel Macron made a plea to de-escalate tensions with North Korea and called on the international community to proceed toward new measures aimed at an irreversible dismantling of the country’s nuclear program.
Following comments last week from U.S. President Donald Trump that North Korea would be “met with fire and fury” the French president reminded allies of the importance of new measures taken on August 5 by the U.N. Security Council to impose new sanctions on North Korea, including the banning of exports.
“The North Korean regime today is engaged in a dangerous escalation of tensions, which poses a serious threat to the security of its neighbors as well as the durability of international efforts aimed at denuclearization,” the Elysée said in a statement. “In front of this threat, the international community should act concretely, firmly and efficiently.”
Macron’s statement follows a phone call with Trump Saturday evening. The leaders discussed “the need to confront the increasingly dangerous situation associated with North Korea’s destabilizing and escalatory behavior,” the White House said in a statement. During the call, both said they would boost efforts to enforce new sanctions and denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.
The French president is the latest European leader to urge an immediate resolution to the diplomatic standoff, after British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson blamed North Korea for the crisis and said Pyongyang “must fix it.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Berlin would stand by the U.S. in the case of war but implicitly criticized Trump by condemning the “escalation of rhetoric.”
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — A car plowed into a crowd of people peacefully protesting a white nationalist rally Saturday in a Virginia college town, killing one person, hurting more than a dozen others and ratcheting up tension in a day full of violent confrontations.
Shortly after, a Virginia State Police helicopter that officials said was assisting with the rally crashed outside Charlottesville, killing the pilot and a trooper.
The chaos boiled over at what is believed to be the largest group of white nationalists to come together in a decade. The governor declared a state of emergency, and police dressed in riot gear ordered people out. The group had gathered to protest plans to remove a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee, and others arrived to protest the racism.
Matt Korbon, a 22-year-old University of Virginia student, said several hundred counter-protesters were marching when “suddenly there was just this tire screeching sound.” A silver Dodge Challenger smashed into another car, then backed up, barreling through “a sea of people.”
The impact hurled people into the air. Those left standing scattered, screaming and running for safety in different directions.
The driver was later arrested, authorities said.
The turbulence began Friday night, when the white nationalists carried torches though the University of Virginia campus. It quickly spiraled into violence Saturday morning. Hundreds of people threw punches, hurled water bottles and unleashed chemical sprays. At least one person was arrested in connection.
City officials said the car collision left 19 people injured and said they treated 35 patients altogether.
State Police said in a statement that the helicopter was “assisting public safety resources with the ongoing situation” when it crashed in a wooded area. The pilot, Lieutenant H. Jay Cullen, 48, of Midlothian, Virginia, and Trooper-Pilot Berke M.M. Bates of Quinton, Virginia, died at the scene.
President Donald Trump condemned “in the strongest possible terms” what he called an “egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides” after the clashes. He called for “a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives.”
Trump said he had spoken with the governor of Virginia, Terry McAuliffe, and “we agreed that the hate and the division must stop and must stop right now.”
But some of the white nationalists cited Trump’s victory as validation for their beliefs, and Trump’s critics pointed to the president’s racially tinged rhetoric as exploiting the nation’s festering racial tension.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson noted that Trump for years publicly questioned President Barack Obama’s citizenship.
“We are in a very dangerous place right now,” he said.
Right-wing blogger Jason Kessler had called for what he termed a “pro-white” rally in Charlottesville, sparked by the monument decision. White nationalists and their opponents promoted the event for weeks.
Oren Segal, who directs the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said multiple white power groups gathered in Charlottesville, including members of neo-Nazi organizations, racist skinhead groups and Ku Klux Klan factions.
The white nationalist organizations Vanguard America and Identity Evropa; the Southern nationalist League of the South; the National Socialist Movement; the Traditionalist Workers Party; and the Fraternal Order of Alt Knights also were on hand, he said, along with several groups with a smaller presence.
On the other side, anti-fascist demonstrators also gathered in Charlottesville, but they generally aren’t organized like white nationalist factions, said Heidi Beirich of the Southern Poverty Law Center.
Many others were just locals caught in the fray.
Colleen Cook, 26, stood on a curb shouting at the rally attendees to go home.
Cook, a teacher who attended the University of Virginia, said she sent her son, who is black, out of town for the weekend.
“This isn’t how he should have to grow up,” she said.
Cliff Erickson leaned against a fence and took in the scene. He said he thinks removing the statue amounts to erasing history and said the “counter-protesters are crazier than the alt-right.”
“Both sides are hoping for a confrontation,” he said.
It’s the latest hostility in Charlottesville since the city about 100 miles outside of Washington, D.C., voted earlier this year to remove a statue of Lee.
In May, a torch-wielding group that included prominent white nationalist Richard Spencer gathered around the statue for a nighttime protest, and in July, about 50 members of a North Carolina-based KKK group traveled there for a rally, where they were met by hundreds of counter-protesters.
Kessler said this week that the rally is partly about the removal of Confederate symbols but also about free speech and “advocating for white people.”
“This is about an anti-white climate within the Western world and the need for white people to have advocacy like other groups do,” he said in an interview.
Charlottesville Mayor Michael Signer said he was disgusted that the white nationalists had come to his town and blamed Trump for inflaming racial prejudices.
“I’m not going to make any bones about it. I place the blame for a lot of what you’re seeing in American today right at the doorstep of the White House and the people around the president,” he said.
Charlottesville, nestled in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, is a liberal-leaning city that’s home to the flagship UVA and Monticello, the home of Thomas Jefferson.
The statue’s removal is part of a broader city effort to change the way Charlottesville’s history of race is told in public spaces. The city has also renamed Lee Park, where the statue stands, and Jackson Park, named for Confederate General Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson. They’re now called Emancipation Park and Justice Park, respectively.
For now, the Lee statue remains. A group called the Monument Fund filed a lawsuit arguing that removing the statue would violate a state law governing war memorials. A judge has agreed to temporarily block the city from removing the statue for six months.
President Donald Trump declined to condemn the violent actions and protests of white supremacists on Saturday, who had converged on Charlottesville, Virginia., en masse to protest the removal of a statue of a Confederate general.
The clashes killed at least one person and injured a number of others.
Instead, Trump called out in what he deemed the strongest possible terms “this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides — on many sides.” Yet, he never denounced by name the extremist group, or called their behavior unacceptable. He made his pronouncements from his golf club in New Jersey just before signing a bill related to veterans’ health care.
Earlier in the day, hours after the white nationalists had marched in Virginia with lanterns and assaulted nonviolent protesters, Trump tweeted out that “We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Let’s come together as one!”
This call for Americans to “come together as one” alongside a high-profile white nationalist group that openly derides minorities, Jews, and women left many people aghast. It also gave Democrats an opportunity to paint Trump as a president ill-equipped to represent all Americans.
“America is no place for bigots. And to be silent in the face of their hatred is to condone it,” said Tom Perez, chair of the Democratic National Party in a statement. “That’s why it is on all of us to stand up to these reprehensible acts and speak out against white supremacy. We cannot allow a group of cowards to instill fear in our communities.”
By late Saturday afternoon, a number of prominent Republican lawmakers including Senators Cory Gardner, Orrin Hatch, Tim Scott, and Marco Rubio, along with House Speaker Paul Ryan and Representative Cathy McMorris Rogers had condemned the actions of the white supremacists in far stronger language than the president.
Gardner went as far as calling the incident “domestic terrorism.”
“Mr. President — we must call evil by its name. These were white supremacists,” Gardner tweeted from his official account.
Rubio also wrote on Twitter that it was important “for the nation to hear @potus describe events in #Charlottesville for what they are, a terror attack by #whitesupremacists.”
Trump’s response to the Charlottesville white nationalist demonstrations also showed the limits of General John Kelly’s power as the newly-installed White House chief of staff. Kelly has spent the last two weeks trying to professionalize the decision-making process inside the White House, but he has been unable to steer Trump away from controversy, including his provocative statements on North Korea this week.
Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe declared a state of emergency on Saturday with law enforcement in riot gear flooding the area. The worst violence came in the afternoon, when a car sped up and rammed into a group of people protesting the white nationalists and resulted in one death and numerous injuries. The state police later linked a helicopter crash that killed the pilot and a passenger outside Charlottesville to the rally, bringing the death tally Saturday to three.
In his in-person statement, Trump was quick to thank law enforcement. “What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives,” he said. “No citizen should ever fear for their safety and security in our society, and no child should ever be afraid to go outside and play or be with their parents and have a good time.”
Trump later expressed his condolences through Twitter for the three people who lost their lives on Saturday, including a young woman and two Virginia State police officers.
The group that gathered in Charlottesville included well-known figures in the white supremacist movement including David Duke, who previously ran the Ku Klux Klan, and Richard Spencer, the so-called “alt-right” leader, who in November at Washington D.C. conference, led supporters in a Nazi salute and the chanting of “Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!”
The furthest Trump went in protesting the white nationalists’ “Unite the Right” rally was to say that his administration wanted to “get the situation straightened out in Charlottesville and we want to study it and we want to see what we’re doing wrong as a country, where things like this can happen.”
In closing, Trump — who in recent days has publicly criticized Mitch McConnell and Republican senators and announced the firing of his former chief of staff via Twitter — went on to say: “We have to respect each other. Ideally, we have to love each other.”
German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière called on Europe to toughen its visa policy toward countries that do not take back their own nationals should their asylum applications fail in the EU.
Speaking to German paper Welt am Sonntag, de Maizière said Germany should be forthright in making clear distinctions between people who qualify for international protection and those who should be deported.
“It would be fatal if a constitutional, clean distinction between people who need protection in our country and those for whom that is not the case did not carry any consequences,” the minister said.
“A country that doesn’t take back its citizens can’t expect us to go out of our way to handle visa applications from their ruling class in a particularly friendly way,” he added.
De Maizière’s remarks come as Italy renews its push to allocate Libya and other parts of Africa with additional resources to stem migration flows across the Mediterranean.
Libya last week announced a total ban on foreign boats operated by non-governmental organizations seeking to help migrants cross the Mediterranean toward Europe.
Doctors Without Borders (MSF) on Saturday announced it would be suspending its operations due to the decision. Loris De Filippi, president for MSF in Italy, called the move an “unacceptable attack to life and the dignity of people.”
In the first 10 days of August, the number of migrants making the crossing to Italian shores, mainly from Libya, fell 76 percent compared to the same period last year, meaning 1,572 migrants made the journey as opposed to 6,554 a year ago, according to Italian Interior Ministry data.
WASHINGTON — Senior administration officials on Saturday outlined the White House’s plan to pressure China over policies that “force or coerce” American companies to hand over valuable technology to do business there — but they denied the effort was motivated by the crisis over North Korea.
President Donald Trump is slated to take a break from his New Jersey vacation to return to Washington on Monday to announce an executive action that could lead to an investigation over alleged violations of U.S. intellectual property rights. The move delays for as long as a year any decision on actions that could stem from a probe, such as U.S. tariff increases or other punishing unilateral actions.
But the high-profile announcement the administration is planning carries symbolic as well as practical ramifications, and serves to ratchet up trade pressure on Beijing amid a deepening foreign policy crisis. Trump has responded in bellicose terms over the progress of North Korea’s nuclear missile program and threats to launch an attack on the U.S. territory of Guam, where the U.S. has a military installation.
During a media briefing on Saturday, administration officials rebutted the suggestion the trade action was intended to pressure China — North Korea’s main trading partner and economic lifeline — to do more to rein in Pyongyang, even though Trump himself has said he would go easier on trade concerns with Beijing if they agreed to help put the squeeze on North Korea.
“These are totally unrelated events,” a senior administration official told reporters. “Trade is trade. National security is national security. All parts of this administration, within the White House and the Cabinet agencies, are fully engaged on this issue and fully united on this issue.”
But as the North Korea crisis began to dominate headlines earlier this week, Trump fueled the impression that how hard he pressures Beijing on trade depends on its cooperation on the North Korea question. “I think China can do a lot more” to help curb North Korea, “and I think China will do a lot more,” Trump told reporters at his golf course in Bedminster, N.J., on Thursday. “If China helps us, I feel a lot differently toward trade.”
Additional evidence of a connection between the trade action and the North Korea crisis comes from the fact the executive memorandum Trump will sign on Monday was originally expected more than a week ago. It was apparently put on hold while the U.S. lobbied China and other U.N. Security Council members to impose new sanctions on North Korea. That effort passed by a 15-0 vote.
Trump’s trade action reflects his frustration that the U.S. and China were not able to make more progress on U.S. intellectual property concerns as part of the so-called 100-day plan to improve trade between the two countries — a period that ended earlier this summer — as well as during high-level talks last month in Washington, the administration official said.
But, the official added: “I don’t think we’re headed toward a period of greater conflict. This is simply business between two countries.”
Trump’s order will initiate a two-stage process for confronting China over a variety of “laws, policies, practices or actions” that require American companies to transfer valuable technology or other proprietary information to get permission to do business in China.
American companies “should not be forced or coerced to turn over the fruits of their labor,” a second administration official said. “The current trajectory is unsustainable. Innovation in the U.S. economy should not be put at risk by policies that force companies to turn over their proprietary technologies and intellectual property.”
The executive memorandum will also target trade-secret theft, which costs the U.S. economy as much as $600 billion a year, the second administration official said. “China is widely recognized to be the biggest source of the problem,” the official added.
Trump’s memo will highlight those concerns, but leave it to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to determine whether to launch an investigation — a move that is seen as giving the administration more time to cajole China and gather support from the business community and other trading partners for any eventual action.
Should Lighthizer decide to launch such an investigation, “he will have at his discretion broad powers to use all applicable measures, including, but not limited to, Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, which provides a basis for addressing technology transfer practices that may be harming the U.S. economy, exports and American jobs,” an administration official said.
The Section 301 provision is a powerful trade tool that has not been used in recent years. It allows an industry to ask USTR to investigate whether a foreign country is unfairly restricting its sales and to use the threat of sanctions to reach a negotiated settlement. It also allows USTR to self-initiate an investigation, but once a probe is launched a clock starts ticking that requires action within a year.
Lighthizer is well versed in Section 301 from his stint as deputy USTR in the Ronald Reagan administration, when it was more frequently used. However, the U.S. pledged in the mid-1990s to settle disputes through the World Trade Organization dispute settlement system rather than by taking unilateral action.
Administration officials emphasized Saturday that they are a long way from deciding what, if any, action to take if a Section 301 is launched and finds that China has engaged in unfair trade practices.
There are “a wide variety of potential responses. There could be tariffs, there could be some sort of negotiated settlement, there could be a number of other things that are out there — and, obviously, we haven’t made any decision on that at this point,” a third administration official said.
Any investigation could take as long as a year once it is formally launched, and will likely include a public comment period and a hearing, the official said. The administration could also decide to use the information gathered in a Section 301 probe to file a case against China at the World Trade Organization, rather than acting unilaterally, the official added.
“An important question going forward will be whether U.S. companies and trade associations who have highlighted the problem will actually come forward and assist our government in the investigation,” said Michael Wessel, a member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a watchdog group established by Congress.
It is possible that affected U.S. companies “will hide the facts, fearful that our government won’t follow through, that the Chinese will retaliate against their interests or that they’ll have to admit what’s happened to their critical assets,” Wessel added. “The time has come to say enough is enough — and this action is a vital first step in that effort.”
Administration officials said they expected support from both the business community and Congress for the action, and hope to get cooperation from other countries whose companies face the same problems in China.
Sen. Ron Wyden, top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, has already urged Lighthizer to launch an investigation of China’s forced technology practices. “The administration has been unable to make progress on these issues in dialogues with China, including as part of the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue,” Wyden said previously.
LONDON — The U.K. government is poised to lay out detailed plans for its post-Brexit relationship with the EU, building on a year of behind-the-scenes work in Whitehall, officials confirmed Sunday.
As first reported by POLITICO, the U.K. will clarify its position on a range of issues with the publication of formal strategy papers, starting this week, the Department for Exiting the European Union said in a statement.
Among the first to be published will be three papers that lay ground for the next round of negotiations in Brussels at the end of August, including one that sets out the U.K.’s plan for the post-Brexit border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
The other two position papers will address issues around the availability of goods for the EU and the U.K. and access to official documents following the U.K.’s withdrawal, the Brexit department said.
The series of publications will also include papers on the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU — highlighting the U.K.’s view that so-called exit issues such as the Brexit bill and the Northern Irish border, which the EU has insisted must be settled first, are inextricably linked to future relationship issues, which the EU has said it will only discuss once “sufficient progress” has been reached in talks.
“I’ve launched this process because with time of the essence, we need to get on with negotiating the bigger issues around our future partnership to ensure we get a deal that delivers a strong U.K. and a strong EU,” David Davis, the secretary of state for exiting the European Union, said in a statement.
“It’s what businesses across Europe have called on both sides to do and will demonstrate that the U.K. is ready for the job,” he said, adding that the position papers’ publication was “an important next step” in “getting on with the task set to us by the British public.”
The first of the future relationship papers will set out detailed proposals for a new customs arrangement with the EU and will form the basis of a new push to inform businesses and other stakeholders, including officials in EU member country capitals, about the U.K.’s plans for the future, as POLITICO reported last week.
The new push to set out the U.K.’s position and lobby interest groups comes ahead of the October European Council summit, where EU leaders will judge whether Brexit talks have made sufficient progress to proceed to the next phase — talks on the future relationship. This next phase will include discussion of options for a transition deal and groundwork for a future trade agreement between the U.K. and the EU.
DORTMUND, Germany — Chancellor Angela Merkel embarked in earnest on her reelection bid in the western German city of Dortmund on Saturday, in the first of a series of campaign stops across the country ahead of September’s federal election.
But anybody expecting a rousing entry into the ring will be disappointed. Buoyed by consistently strong polling, Merkel’s pitch to voters is simple: Things are going quite well, and I will make sure it stays that way.
In front of some 1,000 citizens — most in the 63-year-old chancellor’s own age range — Merkel played to her image of a pragmatic politician above polemics and spectacle, as she soberly listed the achievements of her party over the course of her three terms as chancellor.
Keeping in mind her audience — in a city in the industry-heavy Ruhr area where her Social Democratic rivals have dominated in every election since 1949 — the chancellor focused on her party’s record for supporting workers, families and pensioners. Issues of internal security and foreign affairs, likely to play an equally important role in the campaign on a national scale, were largely left by the wayside.
“Through gradual steps, sound decisions, sometimes difficult decisions … we have created a framework in which people can once again seize opportunities,” Merkel said, referring to the decline in unemployment since its peak near the beginning of her first term in the mid-2000s. She also reiterated her party’s pledge to reach full employment by 2025, which would entail reducing unemployment by roughly 2.5 percentage points.
Merkel also pledged to embrace technological innovation while protecting those most vulnerable in an increasingly automated and digitized economy. She rejected accusations, levied by her Social Democratic challenger Martin Schulz, that her government was not using overflowing state coffers to sufficiently invest in infrastructure and education.
The latest polling puts Merkel’s conservatives at 40 percent, 16 points ahead of Schulz’s Social Democratic Party (SPD), the junior government partner during two of Merkel’s three terms as chancellor, including over the past four years. Over the next six weeks, the campaign will take her to 50 German cities — from Passau on the southern border with Austria to the northern seaside town of Cuxhaven, before she finishes off in Munich two days before the September 24 election.
Although Merkel’s party is careful not to give off a sense of hubris, speculation abounds as to the constellation of parties that will form the new government after the election. Observers predict Merkel’s conservatives will team up with the liberal, business-friendly Free Democrats (FDP) or form a three-way coalition that also includes the environmentalist Green party.
But the mood may still shift. As the Dieselgate scandal continues to deepen, politicians’ approval ratings have suffered across the board, with Merkel’s falling to 59 percent this week, a 10-point drop from last month.
In Dortmund, Merkel had stern words for the carmakers implicated in the scandal that make up a central pillar of Germany’s export economy.
“Honesty belongs to a social market economy. Obfuscation, or exploiting loopholes in testing procedures … clearly destroys trust,” she warned, calling for a “reasonable path in which the car industry bears the primary responsibility.”
Neither was Berlin left untouched in the wake of the collapse of the state government in Lower Saxony, caused by the surprise defection of a Green party lawmaker whom SPD leaders suggest was tempted by CDU promises of a senior position.
Still, despite some rumblings, the campaign lacks the high-stakes rhetoric of a clash of identities that permeated other recent elections in Europe and the U.S. — Merkel vs. Schulz is not Macron vs. Le Pen, Clinton vs. Trump, or even Leave vs. Remain.
This is not for lack of trying on the part of the Social Democrats. Schulz, who launched his own campaign while the chancellor enjoyed a three-week holiday in Italy, has repeatedly sought to draw Merkel into headline-grabbing debates, at one point even accusing Merkel’s party of an “attack on democracy.”
Yet Schulz’s challenges have largely fallen on deaf ears. Merkel has skillfully dodged controversy by rarely commenting on her rival’s initiatives, lest a faux-pas upset her sizable lead. In Dortmund, the chancellor conspicuously avoided any explicit mention of Schulz, only commenting that his proposal for an EU-wide quota to promote electric cars was “not thought-through.”
As a CDU official recently told POLITICO: “Germans want to be left in peace. It’s finally summer, they’re slowly coming back from holidays, everyone has a job, there are barely any refugees visible anymore. They don’t want to debate things.”
French President Emmanuel Macron is more unpopular than his predecessor François Hollande was at a similar stage of his presidency, according to a new poll.
French pollster Ifop and Le Figaro reported Saturday that only 36 percent of French people approve of Macron, in a survey designed to gauge the French leader’s popularity after 100 days in office.
Five years ago, 46 percent said they approved of Hollande, the most unpopular French president in polling history, as he approached the same mark in his term.
The public also appears to trust Macron less than they did Hollande, with 45 percent saying they thought he was sticking to his election promises, compared to 57 percent who said the same of Hollande in 2012.
Neither do French citizens feel that Macron is taking the country in the right direction: Only 23 percent agreed that “things are changing for the better.”
Ifop suggested that a series of unpopular policy announcements — including cutting housing allowance, increasing social-security contributions and raising taxes on cigarettes — have soured France’s enthusiasm for its new president.
“Overall, skepticism is prevailing,” Ifop Director Jérôme Fourquet told Le Figaro, adding that Macron should take the polls seriously.
“The perception of a five-year term … forms after the first summer,” he said.
Residents of England, Wales and Scotland are untroubled by the potential implications of a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Irish republic, according to new research.
A study conducted by the London School of Economics and Oxford University found that 52 percent of Brexit supporters would support passport and customs checks on the island of Ireland, while roughly the same number of Remain voters would back an open border. The results are due to be published later this year, the Times of London wrote Saturday.
English, Welsh and Scottish citizens “don’t feel strongly” about the issue of Northern Ireland, Thomas Leeper, an assistant professor in political behavior at LSE, told the Times.
The study showed “their attention is focused much more on other aspects like immigration, trade and rights of EU citizens and they are therefore likely to be willing to trade off the specifics of the border issue to have other aspects of the negotiations that are more important to them,” he added.
Finding a solution to the Irish border is one of the Brexit debate’s thorniest problems. The economies of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland are deeply integrated, with industries such as food and farming particularly reliant on cross-border trade.
A hard border also threatens to separate whole communities, with many fearing that passport controls and customs barriers could threaten the province’s fragile peace process and herald the return of political violence.
London, Dublin and Belfast have all said that they want to avoid a hard land border. The European Commission has also prioritized the issue in Brexit negotiations.
The U.K. government is due to publish next week a position paper outlining its long-awaited “solution” to the Northern Ireland border issue, which the U.K. considers bound up with its customs relationship with the EU.
BERLIN – Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel wants to cooperate more closely with Libya to stem the influx of migrants from North Africa to Europe via perilous Mediterranean crossings.
“The process is in its infancy, but it’s supposed to develop like [the refugee deal with] Turkey once did,” the chancellor told journalists Friday following talks with senior officials from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the U.N. refugee agency (UNHCR).
To achieve this, Merkel said, it’s crucial to strengthen Libya’s government and improve conditions in detention centers across the country.
Dodging a question on whether she supported a proposal by French President Emmanuel Macron to set up “hotspots” to handle asylum requests from start to finish in Libya, Merkel said efforts to improve the situation “should not fail over money,” promising the organizations up to €50 million this year for new operations on the ground in Libya.
Friday’s working lunch, set up at Merkel’s request, took place as the Italian government attributed a sharp drop in the number of refugees arriving at its southern shores to closer operation with war-torn Libya.
During the first 10 days of August, the number of migrants making the crossing to Italy fell by 76 percent compared to the same period last year; last month, the number of arrivals had already halved compared to 2016. Interior Minister Marco Minniti told POLITICO on Thursday this was a direct result of Italy’s attempts to boost the Libyan navy and coast guard’s ability to deal with vessels carrying migrants.
However, talk of a potential turning point in the migration crisis along the Central Mediterranean route, which has become the main entry point for undocumented migrants to Europe, is premature, the IOM’s regional director for the EU, Norway and Switzerland cautioned ahead of the meeting with Merkel.
“These sort of comparisons need to be done over a longer period of time,” Eugenio Ambrosi told POLITICO in an interview at the IOM’s Berlin office. “It’s enough to have two weeks of bad weather more than last year, and you have a drop [in numbers.]”
Ambrosi acknowledged that the Italian measures could have had an impact but stressed that other factors such as “a significant reduction” of the number of people entering Libya from sub-Saharan Africa, as well as well as the slow stabilization of the political situation in parts of Libya, were equally decisive.
What’s more, most migrants picked up by Libyan ships “are brought back to detention centers where conditions are not acceptable,” he added. “So you have taken them out of a nasty situation at sea, but you are putting them in an equally nasty or at times worse situation on land.”
Asked about Macron’s suggestion of hotspots in Libya, Ambrosi said that although the idea seemed “excellent on paper,” there currently were some “insurmountable problems” such as the lack of a legal framework for such centers, and that only a few European countries are willing to take in refugees whose application for asylum is approved.
“We [first] need to have many more assurances from EU member states that those that would be recognized as refugees in these offshore processing centers are then actually accepted for resettlement,” he said. “And the track record, so far, of Europe as a whole, of course with exceptions … is not necessarily encouraging.”
After a fleeting spring romance with Beijing, President Donald Trump now seems eager to make good on his pledge to “get China to stop ripping us off.” The administration reportedly is planning to launch an investigation into China’s intellectual property and trade practices. The move follows weeks of White House efforts to pressure Beijing to reduce steel production and to threaten to restrict U.S. imports of Chinese steel.
The administration’s tougher line is a welcome shift — as even Senate Democrats acknowledged—but bringing China’s economic abuses to heel will take a far more comprehensive and creative strategy than either party has yet offered. The real problem is that our strategy is too limited — too beholden to outdated “trade” concepts that do not contemplate the kind of challenges China poses today. It needs rethinking for a world where our largest competitors blur the lines between state and market. Our current trade paradigm was purpose-built to dismantle tariffs, a goal it largely accomplished by the early 2000’s. We now need a paradigm that does the same for the host of anti-competitive policies that China and other countries have long pursued at our expense: currency manipulation; state-owned enterprises; indigenous innovation and forced localization requirements; mercantilist financial incentive packages and tax policies; and a slew of protectionist domestic rules and regulations.
Current U.S. efforts target specific abuses — intellectual property theft, for example, or steel dumping. But China has employed a range of strategies to advantage its firms; some of these are susceptible to traditional trade enforcement tools. But many are not. What’s needed is a strategy to begin challenging the very foundations of China’s state capitalist economic model and its industrial policies. If we get this right, it could win bipartisan support — finally allowing a way to tackle China as both an economic challenge and a geopolitical one.
Here’s what this would entail.
First is a shift to a general principle of reciprocity. For too long, the U.S. has remained open to Chinese exports and investment, even as China imports little from the U.S. and severely restricts U.S. investment. Whereas the U.S. broadly allows Chinese investment, China evaluates all foreign investment on a case-by-case basis, and lists some 328 items that remain either heavily restricted or closed entirely to foreign investors (including golf courses, Mr. President). The multilateral trading system, enshrined in the WTO, is built on the notion of reciprocity — and allowing China a pass has served neither the system, nor the United States well.
Second, reciprocity should not merely pave the way for increased U.S. investment in China, but should ensure that U.S. and Chinese companies are competing on fair footing around the world. That means focusing less on a strict, ‘tit-for-tat’ version of reciprocity and more on leveraging U.S. market access to address the kitchen sink of Chinese industrial policies — everything from protectionist technical standards, to mandatory joint venture requirements for foreign firms, to generous state-financing for domestic ‘national champion firms’ that shelter Chinese firms from competition at home and arm them with unfair advantages abroad. Increasingly, they are going abroad.
Third is a willingness to dust off old tools and invent new ones. Longstanding measures like Section 301 should be used to restrict Chinese investment in U.S. markets — especially high-technology areas prized by Beijing, until China begins dismantling its subsidies. The search for new tools must go beyond trade to areas like antitrust and even aspects of criminal law. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, for example, restricts U.S. firms from giving foreign governments things of value in exchange for commercial gain. Might there be a rationale for prohibiting U.S. firms from caving to Beijing’s demands for technology transfer on this same principle?
Fourth, any serious challenge to China’s state capitalist system and its industrial policy must win support from U.S. industry. Most U.S. firms fall into two camps: those already inside China, and those still hoping to find a foothold. But both camps remain too intimidated by Beijing to endorse a tougher line from Washington, their private complaints and pleadings to “do something” notwithstanding.
For many U.S. firms, the primary threat is no longer getting shut out of China—it is getting acquired by a Chinese firm. Chinese investment in the U.S. is up some four-fold since 2014. Given the rise of activist shareholders pressuring U.S. firms to sell to the highest bidder, it is hardly clear these companies can shield themselves from Chinese acquisition. After all, these activist shareholders, which frequently are hedge funds, care little that a Chinese high bid may be playing with sovereign cash; only that the bid is high. A meaningful fix would require reforms to U.S. securities law to curb the influence of activist shareholders, as well as new public investment to rejuvenate U.S. industries like semiconductors, which are targets of Chinese government acquisition efforts.
Finally, this tougher approach to China should be a priority in its own right, not simply a ploy to compel Chinese cooperation against North Korea. There is reason to doubt how serious Trump really is about addressing Chinese economic abuses — in April, he tweeted “a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for [China] if they solve the North Korean problem!” and asked, “Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on … North Kore[a]?”
I raise this concern as someone who has sought for longer than a decade to get U.S. foreign policy to rely more on its economic — rather than military — might to solve geopolitical challenges like North Korea, a brand of statecraft I call “geoeconomics.” But years of continually subjugating our economic interests to geopolitical ones, especially where China is concerned, has done real harm to American workers. Policymakers in both parties have been guilty on this score since China joined the World Trade Organization some 16 years ago. The Trump campaign vowed to rectify this problem — pledging that, as president, Trump would “never again sacrifice the U.S. economy on the altar of foreign policy” — only to do just that after he entered office.
The administration is once again talking a tough game on China. But talk is cheap. The jury is still out over whether it understands how to take aim at the foundations of Chinese state capitalism and whether it has the will to do so.
Jennifer Harris is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and co-author of War by Other Means: Geoeconomics and Statecraft (Harvard University Press, 2016).
The Council of the European Union on Thursday expanded its sanctions against North Korea to align the EU’s punitive measures with a new United Nations Security Council resolution.
In a statement, the Council said it had extended an asset freeze and travel restrictions to nine individuals and four organizations, including the government-owned Foreign Trade Bank, to an existing roster of 62 individuals and 50 organizations already under sanction.
The U.N. Security Council on Saturday adopted Resolution 2371 to toughen sanctions against North Korea over its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile development programs.
In the latest exchange of bellicose rhetoric, Pyongyang warned that it would fire missiles at Guam in response to U.S. President Donald Trump’s threat that North Korea’s aggression would be “met with fire and fury.”
Separately from the sanctions that mirror measures by the U.N., the Council of the EU said that it has designated 41 individuals and seven organizations for punishment.
“The EU has implemented all U.N. Security Council resolutions adopted in response to the DPRK’s nuclear and nuclear weapons, other weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs,” the Council said in a statement.
The German press focused on escalating tensions between North Korea and the U.S., with FAZ calling the situation a “War of words” and Die Welt dubbing it a “Showdown in the West Pacific.” North Korea dismissed U.S. President Donald Trump’s rhetoric “nonsense” and announced a detailed plan to launch missiles aimed at the waters off the coast of the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
Bild, meanwhile, stayed focused on domestic issues, featuring polling results in which Chancellor Angela Merkel appears to be losing support in a ranking of the country’s most preferred politicians, just weeks before the federal election on September 24. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble tops the list with a 64 percent approval rate, followed by Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel at 63 percent. Merkel follows in third place with 59 percent, down from 69 percent last month. Social Democratic Party (SDP) leader Martin Schulz trails far behind at 33 percent.


The Times reported that a cap on the number of tourist beds and stricter regulation for Airbnb rentals could soon put an end to mass tourism on the islands of Majorca and Ibiza. Residents have been complaining about the massive influx of tourists, which they claim is “driving up rental prices and making life a misery.” The islands will set a limit of approximately 600,000 beds for tourists, and plan to cut that number by a further 120,000 over the next few years. Those renting out flats via Airbnb will need a license, or face fines of up to €400,000.
The Guardian led with a story on the shortage of doctors and midwives in Britain. The low numbers are putting lives at risk, according to experts because of the heightened possibility of serious complications during and after birth.
The Telegraph claimed the European Commission was facing an “expenses scandal,” after media reports showed that officials had claimed tens of thousands of euros to hire private jets and stay at luxury hotels during the first two months of 2016. According to the report, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker spent £24,000 on a two-day trip to Rome for meetings with the Italian government.

More and more tourists are finding their way to France, both Le Monde and Le Figaro reported, with the tourism industry largely returning to levels equal to those before Paris was hit by a series of terror attacks starting in 2015. But the upward trend recorded in spring did not continue in July, which was not as positive as expected, according to reports. Tour operators did notice a rise in trips to cities such as Lyon and Bordeaux, but said French people largely went abroad for their own holidays.
The newspapers also covered Wednesday’s attack in Levallois-Perret, where a man drove into six soldiers who were on their way to a security patrol. A suspect has been arrested. “Again, the symbols of the Republic have been targeted,” Le Figaro wrote.


Dutch papers focused on the egg contamination scandal that has turned into a spat between Belgium and the Netherlands and “reached a boiling point,” according to De Telegraaf. In a hearing in parliament Wednesday, Belgian authorities claimed the investigation had been slowed down due to a lack of cooperation from their Dutch counterparts, whom the Belgians accused of having known about the fipronil since November. Food authority NVWA denied any wrongdoing. The organization’s inspector general, Rob van Lint, said authorities shared all information “at home and abroad.” He added: “It’s sad that the Belgians want to put the blame on us,” according to De Telegraaf’s report.

 
BERLIN — To understand Angela Merkel’s campaign strategy, look no further than the posters her party is about to splash all over Germany.
“Enjoy the summer now, and make the right choice in the fall,” one of them tells voters, depicting a dreamy young woman in a meadow.
After the conservative chancellor returns from her three-week vacation on Friday, her main goal is to ensure the final stretch of the campaign up to the September 24 election remains low-key. Or, as one official from her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) put it: “If everything stays the way it is right now, any move is a move too many.”
With just over six weeks to go until Germany votes for a new parliament, Merkel’s conservatives are comfortably polling over 40 percent. Her main rival, former European Parliament President Martin Schulz, has little to show for the three weeks he spent on the campaign trail while Merkel was enjoying a hike in the Italian Alps. Despite rushing from retirement homes to factories, Schulz’s Social Democrats (SPD) continue to poll below 25 percent, more than 15 percentage points behind Merkel.
“The race for No. 1 is over,” Christian Lindner, party chief of the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), a potential coalition partner for the conservatives, said last weekend, echoing widespread opinion among commentators and pollsters.
Merkel’s strategy, which has helped the long-time chancellor get reelected twice already, is to avoid confrontation, safe in the knowledge that her supporters will cast their votes for her conservatives whether she campaigns or not, unlike other parties’ voters who need to be mobilized.
The CDU believes their relatively prosperous electorate responds better to specific promises like creating full employment by 2025 or cutting income taxes than to Schulz’s attempts to provoke heated campaign debates.

“Germans want to be left in peace,” a conservative official said. “It’s finally summer, they’re slowly coming back from holidays, everyone has a job, there are barely any refugees visible anymore. They don’t want to debate things.”
There is not much that could go wrong, conservative party officials say — with only a few exceptions.
On top of that list: migration.
Two years ago, an unexpected influx of asylum seekers arriving in Europe via the Greek islands threw Merkel into the worst crisis since she took office in 2005. Since then, the number of arrivals in Greece has dropped significantly, but more asylum seekers have begun to arrive via the central Mediterranean route from Libya in Italy.
Last month, Schulz sounded the alarm that a new refugee crisis could be looming. It was widely understood as an attempt to draw Merkel out of her shell, reminding voters of her handling of the 2015 refugee crisis, when she decided to temporarily open the country’s borders for migrants stranded in Hungary.
However, Schulz’s tactic backfired when the media focused more on a flawed number he quoted than the argument he was trying to make, and Merkel was able to ignore the entire episode.
At the same time, well aware that a new increase of asylum seekers making their way to Germany could pose a threat to her campaign, Merkel’s team is eager to send out the message that the chancellor is watching closely what’s happening in Italy.
One of Merkel’s first appointments when she’s back from her holiday on Friday is lunch with the chiefs of the United Nations’ refugee agency UNHCR and the International Organization for Migration to discuss the situation, followed by a joint press conference.
One day later, on Saturday, Merkel will kick off a six-week series of campaign appearances across Germany.
CDU officials say the chancellor wants to be seen on the campaign trail to send out the signal that despite her lead in polls, she is not taking an election victory for granted — but at the same time, she will avoid confrontation wherever possible.
Next Wednesday, for example, Merkel is giving an online interview to four German YouTube celebrities, her office announced.
Two years ago, when another YouTube blogger interviewed Merkel, it was the chancellor who essentially ended up running the conversation while dodging critical questions. This time, it also seems unlikely that the four young interviewees — among them a beauty expert and a tech blogger — will succeed in bringing the experienced chancellor out of her shell.
So far, there seem to be mainly two occasions that could turn out to become difficult for her, officials believe.
One of them is a televised “town hall meeting” later in August, during which the chancellor has to react directly to questions from the audience.
The other one is a major debate in early September when Merkel will face Schulz head-to-head on live TV.
However, the most interesting fight, according to one CDU official in the Bundestag, won’t happen until after the election, when Germany’s political parties — after having pulled each other apart for weeks — will sit down for coalition talks to try to form a governing majority.
Such sentiments suggest the CDU considers it virtually impossible for Merkel to be unseated by Schulz. With more than six weeks left until the vote, history suggests this could be premature.
Back in 2005, at around this point in the campaign, then-Chancellor Gerhard Schröder was also lagging around 15 percentage points behind Merkel, who was opposition leader at the time.
During the last weeks ahead of the vote, however, he managed to catch up. On election day, Merkel only won by a wafer-thin margin.
When asked whether Schulz has a better chance of sparking a real debate and catching up in the polls now that Merkel is back from her vacation, as it takes two to tango, the CDU official burst out into laughter.
“In all those years … has there ever been anyone who made Angela Merkel dance the tango?”
ISTANBUL — If you travel to Turkey these days, you might want to mind your sartorial choices.
Last week, an Azerbaijani national was detained and deported from the northeastern town of Kars, while across Turkey more than 30 unsuspecting citizens have been picked up by the police over the past month. Their alleged crime? Wearing a T-shirt.
The trouble began on July 13, when Gokhan Güçlü, a soldier accused of participating in last year’s coup attempt, appeared in court in a T-shirt with the slogan “Hero” printed in black-and-white letters across his chest.
His attire sparked a heated exchange in the courtroom, forcing the judge to adjourn the hearing. The following day, enraged protesters hung white T-shirts with the word “traitor” from miniature gallows outside the court.
Although the offending item was a widely available T-shirt sold by the Turkish clothing brand Defacto, the ensuing scandal transformed it into a symbol of sympathy with the putschists — and underscored just how brittle the rule of law has become in Turkey.
Anyone caught sporting the same T-shirt was detained and accused of “making propaganda for a terrorist organisation” — referring to the movement of U.S.-based imam Fethullah Gülen, whom Turkey has named as the attempted coup’s mastermind.
The flagship pro-government newspaper Sabah even detected a secret message in the T-shirt slogan: “HERO,” they wrote, was short for “Hoca Efendi Razi Olsun,” translating roughly to “May the teacher bless you.” “Hoca efendi” — a title of respect for religious teachers — supposedly refers to Gülen, who is often addressed as such.
Many suspects, however, said they were simply unaware of the scandal and the rather serious fashion faux pas they had committed. Two university students who were detained for wearing the T-shirt told the police: “We didn’t follow the news. We got the T-shirts at a shopping center. We didn’t know they were forbidden. We wore the same T-shirts because we wanted to match each other.”
More than 30 people have been detained as of early August; all but two have been released. State prosecutors announced they would investigate Güclü’s sister, who reportedly sent him the T-shirt, and the prison authorities who permitted him to wear it.
Among those detained were several teenagers. The youngest, aged 13, was picked up while sitting at a cafe with his father. One student wearing an entirely different gray T-shirt with the slogan “part-time hero” was also detained.
The T-shirt hysteria was largely met with ridicule from government critics, yet many also saw its darker side.
Arbitrary arrests and prosecutions based on spurious evidence have become increasingly common over the past year. Turkey has imprisoned more than 50,000 of its citizens since the attempted coup, ostensibly to rid the state and society of suspected Gülen supporters.
Many Turks, including government critics, consider Gülen’s opaque movement suspicious and dangerous. But the purge expanded as it rumbled on, targeting not only putschists and established Gülenists, but any citizen with the slightest connection to the group.
These days, it does not take much to be labelled a Gülenist: A one-dollar bill at home or an account at the Gülen-linked Bank Asya, both considered evidence of terror crimes by the state, have cost many Turks their jobs and their freedom.
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s government has established significant control over the judiciary, exerting pressure on judges to rule in favour of the state. But the government’s degree of involvement in the spate of T-shirt arrests and similar cases remains uncertain.
“We don’t have a clear sense of how centralised these arrests are,” said Howard Eissenstat, a Turkey expert at New York’s St. Lawrence University and fellow at the Project on Middle East Democracy, a Washington-based think tank.
“My strong sense is that much of this is generated by prosecutors and facilitated by judges who are guessing at what the government wants, who are feeling pressured by a cheerleading press. You have an environment where everyone is trying to demonstrate their loyalty,” he said.
Fear and suspicion have gripped Turkey since the failed coup. Critics worry about their country’s democratic decline, the erosion of state-mandated secularism, increasing government surveillance and the potential of arrest.
But among loyalists, too, paranoia reigns. Fearful of another coup attempt, the government is constantly on the lookout for enemies within. Civil servants who criticise or rule against the state face suspension, investigation or arrest.
“If you’re a policeman or prosecutor, perhaps you’re a true believer, but perhaps you’re doing what bureaucrats have always done — you look at the potential cost of action and inaction and take steps accordingly,” Eissenstat said. “And the cost of not prosecuting, not detaining, can be pretty steep.”
In one much-cited example that alarmed government critics, three judges were suspended earlier this year after deciding to release a group of journalists, against the wishes of the state prosecutor. The journalists were re-arrested instantly.
Meanwhile, the T-shirt frenzy shows no sign of abating. On Monday night, a man wearing the by now infamous top was arrested while having dinner in the western city of Adana.
With nearly 500 coup suspects currently standing trial, the government appears keen to avoid a repeat of the controversy.
On Monday, Erdoğan announced that coup suspects would be required to wear a brown uniform in court. The president had previously called for defendants to be dressed in orange jumpsuits akin to those worn by detainees in Guantanamo.
But Takvim, a pro-government tabloid with little regard for facts, has already identified the next fashion scandal.
The newspaper zoomed in on other coup suspects’ clothes last week and found that they wore American brands such as Calvin Klein — as far as Takvim was concerned, evidence that the U.S. conspired with Gülen to overthrow Erdoğan.
President Donald Trump’s promise that North Korea would face “fire and fury” if it keeps threatening the United States may be causing alarm around the world, but his aides are warning against reading too much into the combative talk.
One White House official who described Trump’s comments on Tuesday as “impromptu,” said other senior officials weren’t briefed on the language in advance, and described the president as simply being irritated by Pyongyang’s nuclear tests and belligerent talk.
“I think he just wanted to show North Korea he was tired of it,” this official said.
In private, Trump has asked extensive questions about North Korea but has not shown any move toward an immediate action, the aides and advisers said. He has closely followed the news coverage of the North Korean leader and disliked his rhetoric after the sanctions, one person who spoke to Trump said.
Trump, the White House official said, was presented at his golf course on Tuesday with a new batch of information on North Korea a few hours before his controversial comments.
The episode encapsulates the Trump era so far: An impatient president prone to exaggeration and unfamiliar with the subtleties of diplomacy fires off bellicose comments; his Cabinet secretaries and advisers scramble to mitigate the damage; and ultimately, allies and adversaries are left struggling with what to believe.
On Wednesday, Trump faced criticism from around the world, especially in Asia, which has watched North Korea’s nuclear progress with trepidation. The latest reports indicate that Pyongyang has reached the stage where it can miniaturize a nuclear weapon to place it on a ballistic missile that could reach the U.S. mainland.
New Zealand’s prime minister, Bill English, said Trump’s comments “are not helpful in an environment that is very tense,” according to media reports. The Chinese foreign ministry released a statement urging parties to avoid “escalating the situation with words or actions.”
North Korea responded to Trump’s warnings by saying it would, if attacked, strike U.S. military forces in Guam. Trump, via Twitter, shot back Wednesday morning that America’s nuclear arsenal “is now far stronger and more powerful than ever before.”
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who was traveling in Asia and, by scheduling coincidence, made a stop in Guam, went into clean-up mode – an increasingly familiar posture for him. The secretary downplayed the threat from Pyongyang and said Americans should “sleep well at night.” He also cast Trump’s comments as an attempt to break through to North Korea’s leadership, which itself frequently uses bombastic rhetoric.
“I have no concerns about this particular rhetoric of the last few days. I think the president again, as commander in chief, I think he felt it necessary to issue a very strong statement directly to North Korea,” Tillerson told reporters aboard his plane.
Defense Secretary James Mattis followed up on Wednesday with a statement that included harsher language but still stopped short of Trump’s rhetoric.
“The DPRK must choose to stop isolating itself and stand down its pursuit of nuclear weapons. The DPRK should cease any consideration of actions that would lead to the end of its regime and the destruction of its people,” Mattis said.
Inside the White House, Trump’s language was not taken “too seriously,” one White House adviser said.
Senior aides milled about the Eisenhower Executive Office Building Tuesday afternoon, with one group singing “Happy Birthday” on the second floor. “There was no sense of panic,” a senior White House official said.
But beyond the Trump bubble, observers and analysts said the president needs to be careful what he says, especially when dealing with an isolated regime in Pyongyang that is in many ways paranoid about the rest of the world.
The fear among experts isn’t that North Korea will launch an unprovoked nuclear strike on the United States, because the regime there knows that the United States would retaliate in a manner that would topple it. The fear is that some sort of miscalculation or misunderstanding could lead to an unintended clash.
“I sure hope @POTUS can distinguish between reality TV and reality. There are millions of lives at stake here,” tweeted David Axelrod, who previously advised former President Barack Obama.
Upon handing over the Oval Office to Trump, Obama warned him that North Korea’s nuclear program was a top threat. And while the roots of the North Korean challenge date back well before even Obama, Trump owns it for now.
In a show of his level of interest, Trump was personally involved in a terse statement issued by Tillerson earlier this year about North Korea, according to a senior administration official. “North Korea launched yet another intermediate range ballistic missile. The United States has spoken enough about North Korea. We have no further comment,” the statement from April read.
Trump has repeatedly asked aides since then “what the hell is wrong with this guy,” in the words of one of the aides. Two weekends ago, Trump showed fury at China over Twitter after a North Korean missile launch, startling his aides.
Despite his engagement with the North Korea issue, Trump is not necessarily winning over any critics.
According to new MorningConsult/Politico poll, taken before Trump’s “fire and fury” comments Tuesday, 62 percent of Americans think relations between the United States and North Korea have gotten worse under Trump — an unwelcome sign for a man who cares strongly about his poll standings.
Nahal Toosi contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump says his base of support is “bigger and stronger than ever before.” But his claim is contradicted by a steady stream of recent polling showing that the share of Americans who approve of Trump’s job performance is shrinking, along with the share of Americans most enthusiastic about his presidency.
However you measure the president’s base, it has diminished, not increased, in the seven months he’s been in office. It’s a slide he’ll need to reverse to avoid dragging down the GOP in the midterms — and to have a more credible shot at reelection.
A new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll shows Trump’s approval rating slipping to the lowest point of his young presidency. While he’s confounded the polls before, it’s the trendline that should be most worrisome to the White House.
Only 40 percent of registered voters approve of the job Trump is doing as president, the new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll shows, down from a high-water mark of 52 percent in March. And the percentage who approve strongly — one way to measure the size of Trump’s most fervent supporters — is also at a new low: just 18 percent.
That fits with other surveys conducted over the past few weeks, all of which show Trump at or near the low-water marks for each pollster. And there is evidence Trump’s backslide has eroded some of his electoral base: The president has lost ground with Republicans and the independent voters who propelled him to victory.
Trump’s approval rating among self-identified Trump voters is at 81 percent, down from 86 percent last week. And among Republican voters in the new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll, the president is at 76 percent, down slightly from 79 percent last week.
A closer look at those Trump voters who approve of the president’s job performance shows that the Trump base isn’t “even closer together,” as the president said on Twitter this week. Among Trump voters who approve of his job performance, they are equally divided between those who approve strongly, and those who approve only somewhat.
Overall, just 41 percent of voters who say they supported Trump last year strongly approve of the job he is doing, equal to the 41 percent who approve only somewhat. Ten percent of Trump voters disapprove of his job performance somewhat, while 7 percent strongly disapprove.
“Unabated by the turbulence of the last six months, there remains a core base of ardent Trump supporters,” said Morning Consult co-founder and Chief Research Officer Kyle Dropp. “However, that base has unquestionably declined since the president took office. In late January, 56 percent of Trump voters strongly approved of the president, and just 1 percent disapproved. Today, 41 percent strongly approve, and 17 percent disapprove.”
Trump isn’t bringing converts into his base, either, the poll shows. Among voters who say they backed Hillary Clinton last year, more than 3 in 4, 78 percent, strongly disapprove of Trump. Only 8 percent of Clinton voters even somewhat approve of Trump.
The new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll was conducted Aug. 3-6, surveying 1,992 registered voters. The margin of error is plus or minus 2 percentage points.
The ongoing contraction of Trump’s base has accelerated over the past month. Those trends show Trump’s approval rating has fallen because certain segments of Republicans and independents have soured on him.
In a POLITICO/Morning Consult poll a month ago, Trump’s overall approval rating (46 percent) and strongly approve rating (24 percent) were about 6 points higher than in the current survey. But over the past month, Trump has lost 7 points in strong approval among Republicans and 6 points among independents, compared to just 1 point among Democrats. Trump’s “strong approve” number has dropped 8 points among voters who said they supported him in the 2016 election, from 49 percent to 41 percent.
It’s not only the POLITICO/Morning Consult poll that shows Trump fading during his first summer in office. Separate surveys from CNN (38 percent approval), CBS News (36 percent), Gallup (37 percent), Quinnipiac University (33 percent), Investor’s Business Daily/TIPP (32 percent) and Rasmussen Reports (41 percent) show Trump’s approval ratings either at or within a few percentage points of his low-water marks.
And in each of them, there are warning signs about the size — and enthusiasm — of Trump’s base. In the CNN poll — which was conducted by SSRS, the network’s new polling partner — the percentage of Americans who strongly approve of Trump contracted to 24 percent, compared to 30 percent and 33 percent in CNN/ORC polls in early March and early February, respectively. In the Quinnipiac poll, Trump’s strong approval number contracted from 28 percent in late June to 23 percent now.
The Investor’s Business Daily/TIPP poll notes that Trump has lost significant ground with core groups over the past month. Trump’s approval rating is down 12 percentage points since July among Republicans, even as it was relatively unchanged from already-low records among Democrats and Republicans. Trump’s decline in the Midwest (minus-7 points) is larger than the overall 5-point drop in his approval, as was his 7-point dip among white men.
In the CBS News poll, there are signs it could be difficult for Trump to recover, even as he touts continued economic growth in his first six months in office. Asked to choose which is more important in evaluating Trump — “the culture and values that you believe in” or “your economic and financial well-being” — 48 percent say culture and values, while only 37 percent say their economic and financial well-being is more important.
The president’s response to these surveys so far suggests he doesn’t believe them — and he’s sought to discredit the results among the public.
“After 200 days, rarely has any Administration achieved what we have achieved..not even close!” Trump tweeted Tuesday afternoon, adding in a second sentence, “Don’t believe the Fake News Suppression Polls!”
Earlier in the week — also on Twitter — Trump cited recent campaign rallies “in [Pennsylvania], Iowa, Ohio … and West Virginia” as evidence that his supporters were still with him.
“The fact is the Fake News Russian collusion story, record Stock Market, border security, military strength, jobs … Supreme Court pick, economic enthusiasm, deregulation & so much more have driven the Trump base even closer together,” Trump tweeted. “Will never change!”
But inside Trump’s own White House, there does seem to be some acknowledgment of the president’s falling poll numbers, even if the chief executive insists that they are “fake.”
“His approval rating among Republicans and conservative[s] and Trump voters is down slightly,” Kellyanne Conway, a former Republican pollster currently serving as counselor to the president, said on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday. “It needs to go up.”
Morning Consult is a nonpartisan media and technology company that provides data-driven research and insights on politics, policy and business strategy.
More details on the poll and its methodology can be found in these two documents — Toplines: http://politi.co/2vBT18w | Crosstabs: http://politi.co/2vN6Sct
WASHINGTON — FBI agents recently raided the residence of Paul Manafort, and he has turned over hundreds of pages of documents to congressional investigators as probes ramp up into President Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia’s role in the 2016 election.
“FBI agents executed a search warrant at one of Mr. Manafort’s residences. Mr. Manafort has consistently cooperated with law enforcement and other serious inquiries and did so on this occasion as well,” said Jason Maloni, a spokesman for the former Trump campaign chairman.
The pre-dawn raid at the Virginia home, which was first reported by the Washington Post, roused Manafort, who was in town to appear before Congress, according to a person familiar with the situation. Agents took reams of material from the home.
Manafort is also under scrutiny from congressional investigators, and he has turned over 400 pages of documents to the Senate judiciary committee, a committee spokesman said Wednesday, including information on his foreign lobbying work.
The long-time Republican campaign operative and lobbyist has also provided information to the Senate intelligence committee about a meeting he attended last year with a Russian lawyer that was billed as chance to receive damaging information about Hillary Clinton.
Manafort’s lawyers have said he is cooperating with congressional probes and special counsel Robert Mueller, but the FBI raid indicates that Mueller’s office may not believe it is getting full cooperation.
Mueller’s spokesman Joshua Stueve declined to comment on the raid.
Duke Law School professor Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor, said a search warrant would only be needed if Mueller doubted Manafort would comply with document requests or a subpoena.
“Of course it confirms beyond doubt serious criminal investigative focus on Manafort,” Buell said.
A Washington-based defense lawyer with a client caught in the Russia probe said Mueller may also want to turn Manafort into a cooperative witness, something the former campaign manager’s representatives had previously said wasn’t happening.
Austin Wright contributed to this report.
After the full repeal of Obamacare stalled in the Senate last month, one of the sharpest and most-shared online rebukes of the Republican turncoats came from one unassuming woman who loves dogs, Texas and Donald Trump.
“THESE 3 GOP Senators Just KILLED #RepealFirst Replace Later,” wrote @ChristieC733, tagging the senators who stalled the push as well as the official accounts of the Republican National Committee and the Senate Republicans. Her tweet was shared hundreds of times within an hour, eclipsing many of the more famous pundits inside the Beltway.
Given her 238,000 followers—100,000 more than Dan Scavino, Trump’s social media director, and more than three times as many as famed white nationalist Richard Spencer—you might guess Christie is a prominent activist. But besides listing her membership in the National Rifle Association and ownership of a small business, Christie’s profile offers little information about her offline life or any explanation for her impressive following.
Christie’s clout comes from her presence in some of the leading pro-Trump “rooms,” private spaces on conservative Twitter that allow followers to coordinate messages and then retweet each other—dramatically multiplying their impact. One of her fellow “Twitter patriots,” as they call themselves, tweeted and retweeted more than 4,100 times over a recent four-day period.

The pro-Trump rooms are an outgrowth of Twitter’s group direct message function, which was introduced with little fanfare in January 2015, just as the presidential campaign was getting underway. At that time, Twitter was considered a decidedly liberal bastion. But the platform—as well as its group direct message function—proved to be especially useful for the type of populist outsider movement spurred by Trump, whose denunciations of elitist figures and institutions were easily conveyed in no more than 140 characters.
In the months surrounding Trump’s surprise victory, mystery and conjecture shrouded his fiercely loyal social media network, a force that continues to lend a president who is highly unpopular by conventional polling metrics a unique kind of clout. Other political leaders fear his ability to shape the news cycle and flog his critics before millions of voters who may not receive news from any other source.
Many dismissed their staggering output as inflated by automated “bot” accounts run by expert computer programmers, whether foreign agents or domestic trolls. But that may be an exaggerated theory: So many months after the election, tens of thousands of tweets per day continue to emanate from a very human, grass-roots organization.
“My hypothesis was always that these accounts were organizing somewhere,” said Gilad Lotan, a data scientist who monitored political activity on Twitter during the election and wrote about indications that pro-Trump users were working in coordination. He long suspected that bots alone could not account for Trump’s social media dominance, but never identified a key mechanism unearthed in interviews with the Twitter patriots.
“They were clearly organizing in some private space. It makes so much sense that it’s within Twitter,” Lotan said.
By design, the precise size and organization of the pro-Trump online network is difficult to discern. But POLITICO traced this corner of hard-right Twitter through interviews with Trump’s most fervent online boosters—a group that includes anonymous mothers in the Midwest, otherwise unremarkable Florida businessmen who amass thousands of followers through nonstop #MakeAmericaGreatAgain, and a younger cadre of meme provocateurs. As Trump’s presidency barrels forward, this network continues to evolve and even splinter. But its infrastructure, largely invisible, remains a powerful tool for the administration and its supporters to broadcast their messages and help dictate media coverage.
“Great to meet like-minded people,” said Julie King Jackson, a Manhattan-based Trump supporter, when asked about the rooms.
The invite-only rooms have names like “Patriots United” and “Trump Train,” and many have accompanying hashtags to track members’ tweets as they propagate. Each room can accommodate as many as 50 people.
Their private nature makes it impossible to know how many rooms formed in the run-up to November 8, or when they first cropped up. One member said she’s contributed to rooms since winter 2015, and several others said they joined the fray before the state primaries began.
Most people in the rooms are not native internet users. Many joined Twitter or dusted off dormant accounts just to stump for Trump. These novices were coached by more experienced compatriots on tending their feeds and cultivating followers. Those who spoke with POLITICO were virtually all older than 35 and predominantly female.
Some might have joined rooms to discuss news and to vent about Hillary Clinton or the Democrats. But their primary purpose is to amplify and coordinate messaging.
“The whole idea is to share tweets and retweet people in the group’s tweets,” explained Brian Fraser, a central node in the network who manages one of the “Patriots United” rooms. Since last summer, Fraser’s following has increased dramatically, from 13,000 followers to nearly 170,000 today.
Another room manager told members that mutual retweeting is “the cardinal rule.”
A single room can quickly disseminate a given post to its members. But the real strength of the pro-Trump rooms is in their interconnectedness, since one user can be in multiple rooms simultaneously.
One woman said she was in as many as 20 rooms at a time. Another said she contributed to two rooms as of November 8, and joined three more since Election Day. Even allowing for duplicates, that’s hundreds of potential retweets with just a few clicks.
Many experts were unaware of these rooms.
Lotan has researched the role of social media in politics and propaganda for years. He noted last September that Trump’s followers were actively organizing to get particular hashtags trending.
“They clearly had a sense for hubs in the network, the mechanics of attention and how information can propagate,” said Lotan, who joined BuzzFeed as head of data science in December 2016.
Although Lotan had never heard of anything like the rooms, he regularly observed “highly organized networks of users who used the same term at the same time.”
Screenshots provided to POLITICO from inside one room illustrate how powerful a tool the pro-Trump rooms can be for this type of coordination and amplification.
In mid-May of this year, Debbie tweeted about Trump’s patriotism.

“When he Salutes you…He means it. I never seen a President as Patriotic as Donald J. Trump! We Love him! I stand with my President!” she wrote alongside a photo of Trump saluting the band at his inauguration. At the time, around 5,500 people were following her account, which was started in August 2016. That number has since swelled to nearly 11,000.
Even the power of the #MAGA hashtag alone can’t make every fawning Trump tweet get noticed. But after Debbie copied the tweet into the “Trumps WarRoom” [sic] thread, which she managed at the time, the post was shared nearly a thousand times.
Two other tweets that Debbie shared via “Trumps WarRoom” garnered more than 400 and 200 retweets, respectively.
Another user known as Eagle Wings posted to “Trumps WarRoom,” the shared screenshots show. Like many Twitter patriots, her profile is bare on biographical details, indicating only that she’s a retired Air Force veteran. Just before July 4, Eagle Wings tweeted about Trump’s love for America.
“With great respect Patriotism is being restored Celebrating 4th of July knowing we have a POTUS who loves America & fights for We The Ppl,” she wrote to her tens of thousands of followers. Her post included a meme of Trump’s face etched over the stars and stripes.

Lacking any Trump-specific hashtags, this tweet might have been doomed. But Eagle Wings is a heavy hitter in the rooms, according to other users, and she got results: This rather garbled post racked up more than 1,000 retweets by Independence Day.
Another member of the same room, @VoteTrumpPics, is explicit in using Twitter to coordinate Trump supporters’ online messaging, often to match the president’s own tweets. After Trump used the hashtag #FraudNewsCNN in early, @VoteTrumpPics tweeted an urgent order.
“We’re changing it folks!” the account wrote, directing that the network “is to be referred to as #FraudNewsCNN. Effective immediately!” The post was shared more than 2,500 times.
The rooms allow members to post, share and follow each other with machine-like efficiency and speed. On particularly prodigious days, it’s common for a single user to tweet and retweet hundreds of times.
“I get called a Russian bot 50 times a day, it’s so stupid,” complained one woman in her late 40’s.
Dr. Alan Rosenblatt, an expert in the history of online political campaigning, explained that the rooms are the latest iteration of people finding ways to leverage a small design feature like group messages for political advocacy.
“This is clearly tapping into a group of people that are zealous, have a lot of time on their hands, and are tenacious as can be,” said Rosenblatt, who is director for digital research at Lake Research Partners and senior vice president of digital strategy at Turner4D, both in Washington.
The room dwellers are true believers in the power of Twitter to promote politicians and their platforms. As one manager seeking to monetize his network of rooms sees it, he can offer candidates mass advertising and “name recognition beyond anything other mediums can offer.”
But there is a competing account of how the Twitter rooms benefit Trump.
Microchip, a Twitter user who uses several different accounts and is routinely banned from the site, told POLITICO the pro-Trump rooms help him spread racist and otherwise controversial material. His dual aims are to prod the left and entice the media into covering the latest online controversy he helped stoke.
Microchip said he started several rooms in November 2015. A handful of people in other rooms confirmed that he was an “early player.” But he has been blocked from many rooms because of his “wild claims,” one said, as well as anti-Semitic and inflammatory remarks.
In April, Microchip told BuzzFeed about his skill at gaming Twitter algorithms using a combination of automated bot accounts and “retweet groups” of like-minded users, most of them younger people with ties to 4chan and other platforms, he explained.
In subsequent interviews with POLITICO, Microchip detailed how this was just the first step. After “seeding” a given hashtag with bots and his internal network, he ports messages and memes over to other nodes within the broader pro-Trump network of rooms, which is primarily populated by boomers.
“Bots don’t really count toward hashtag boosting that well, raw tweets do,” he said. To accomplish his goals, then, Microchip needs individuals to consistently share the material he’s pushing.
But Microchip, who described himself as an “atheist liberal that just hates immigration” and transgender people, has open contempt for most of Trump’s base.
“Conservatives are generally morons,” he said. “It’s like herding cats.”
He’s just as frank about what he’s peddling to Trump supporters.
“You know how I know they’re spreading lies?” Microchip asked one die-hard this week. “Because I do the same thing, it’s fake news and spin.”
Chaos is Microchip’s metric of success, not voter turnout. His rooms put out a mix of outright vile and what he calls “boomer approved” messages without the gross-out element.
“Most of this is contrived to force outrage and trigger new MSM journos to cover shit because they buy the meme,” he said. “They should have already figured this out and stopped covering us.”
Microchip and his crew were giddy at hearing President Trump’s declaration that the military would no longer accept transgender soldiers. In between mulling ideas for inflammatory messaging, Microchip marveled that Trump “is going to force the Left to remain drenched in identity politics through 2018.”
“The Left still hasn’t learned to ignore this trigger game,” he added.
Like the “normies,” as he calls Trump supporters in the mainstream rooms, Microchip fears concentrated government power and shares frustration with leftward shifts he saw under Obama. But he sees the network of rooms as a vehicle to spread right-wing content that triggers “extreme” response from liberals, and Trump himself as but “a tool in this purpose.”
He hopes extreme actions from either end of the political spectrum will scare more people to the center.
Microchip said it would be impossible to corroborate many of his grandiose claims because of the extent to which he covers his tracks.
Lotan said Microchip’s claims explain the link between the boomer generation in the mainstream rooms and the younger meme producers on 4chan and reddit.
“The boomers are there, thirsty for ammunition. And 4chan is so good at generating ammunition,” Lotan said. “But the boomers will not go to 4chan.”
People in the mainstream pro-Trump rooms said Microchip had not been active there for many months. In turn, Microchip said he maintains pseudonymous accounts to hide his identity from “brain dead” Trump supporters.
Whether their aim is earnest advocacy or to foment backlash, the rooms are now an entrenched part of conservative Twitter. New offshoots continue to spawn, additional members join daily, and their overseers are weighing next steps.
Ever volatile, Microchip suggested last week that he might shift his attention away from using the rooms, although he was characteristically cryptic.
“I’m dumping most groups, turning inward,” he tweeted after decrying everything from globalism to the New Right in a missive comprised of hundreds of tweets.
The mainstream rooms, meanwhile, are scrambling to anoint sufficiently pro-Trump candidates nationwide while taking aim at the president’s detractors, particularly moderate Republicans. When Arizona Senator Jeff Flake, who is up for reelection in 2018, blasted Trump online last week, suggesting the GOP was in denial about the president’s flaws and shortcomings, heavy hitters made their intentions clear.
Tweeted one “Twitter patriot” about Flake: “He doesn’t know he now has ALL of #TrumpsArmy #TrumpTrain #TrumpNation who will work for opposing candidates!”
Shawn Musgrave writes about social media and politics for POLITICO.
WASHINGTON — Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Wednesday that “Americans should sleep well at night,” free from worry that North Korea’s ever-progressing nuclear program presents an “imminent threat” to the United States.
En route to Guam, the U.S. territory in the Pacific that North Korea has threatened to destroy with an “enveloping fire,” Tillerson defended President Donald Trump’s warning that Pyongyang “best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.”
“I think Americans should sleep well at night. I have no concerns about this particular rhetoric of the last few days. I think the president again, as commander in chief, I think he felt it necessary to issue a very strong statement directly to North Korea,” Tillerson said in remarks to reporters aboard his plane. “But I think what the president was just reaffirming is, the United States has the capability to fully defend itself from any attack and defend our allies, and we will do so. And the American people should sleep well tonight.”
The secretary of state said he did not reconsider rerouting his current Pacific trip away from a planned stop in Guam. He told reporters that “I do not believe that there is any imminent threat, in my own view.”
Despite the recent uptick in bellicose rhetoric between the U.S. and North Korea, Tillerson was optimistic that recent diplomatic efforts have made headway on putting real pressure on North Korea. He cited support from China and Russia, North Korea’s top two trade partners, on a package of sanctions passed unanimously last weekend by the United Nations Security Council.
The new sanctions imposed by the U.N. mark the latest response to North Korea’s nuclear program, which in recent weeks has included tests of ballistic missiles that could have the potential to reach the continental U.S. North Korea’s nuclear technology, too, has advanced, according to the Washington Post, which reported Tuesday that the Pentagon has concluded that the repressive state has successfully miniaturized a warhead small enough to fit on a missile.
“I think, in fact, the pressure is starting to show. I think that’s why the rhetoric coming out of Pyongyang is beginning to become louder and more threatening,” Tillerson said. “Whether we’ve got them backed into a corner or not is difficult to say. But diplomatically, you never like to have someone in a corner without a way for them to get out.”
President Donald Trump’s pronouncement that North Korea would face “fire and fury” from the U.S. if it continues its threatening behavior sparked concern Tuesday night into Wednesday morning from some of the U.S. territories and allies most vulnerable to an attack from the regime of dictator Kim Jong Un.
Trump’s comments, made Tuesday from his club in Bedminster where he is taking a working vacation for much of August, “are not helpful in an environment that is very tense,” New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English told reporters Wednesday, according to the New Zealand Herald. He said he would convey his concern about Trump’s comments to the president should they continue.
“I am worried those comments are not helpful when the situation is so tense, and I think you are seeing reaction from North Korea that indicates that kind of comment is more likely to escalate than to settle things,” English said.
Concern regarding North Korea and its ever-advancing nuclear weapons program has returned to the forefront in recent weeks as the Kim regime has begun testing ballistic missiles capable of hitting the continental U.S. At the same time, The Washington Post reported Tuesday that the Pentagon’s intelligence arm has concluded that Pyongyang has successfully miniaturized a nuclear warhead to the size necessary to fit its ballistic missiles.
Asked about North Korea and its nuclear program on Tuesday, Trump warned that the repressive regime “best not make anymore threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.” Wednesday morning, the president retweeted posts from the account of Fox News’ “Fox & Friends” morning show linking to stories headlined “U.S. Air Force jets take off from Guam for training, ensuring they can ‘fight tonight’” and “Trump vows U.S. ‘power’ will meet North Korean threat.”
On Guam, the Pacific island that would likely be among the most vulnerable U.S. territories to a strike from North Korea, Governor Eddie Baza Calvo told residents that there is no threat to his island or to the nearby Mariana Islands, according to the Associated Press. He said he would remain in contact with the admiral in charge of Joint Region Marianas, the military command that oversees the Guam and the Marianas, to ensure Guam is “prepared for any eventuality.”
Guam was the target of renewed North Korean threats overnight Tuesday, with Pyongyang announcing it was examining operational plans to strike Guam, which plays host to a large U.S. military presence. In a statement, North Korea’s army threatened to launch missiles and create an “enveloping fire” around Guam.
Madeleine Bordallo, Guam’s delegate to Congress, said she too was working with the Department of Defense to ensure the island’s safety, recalling her efforts to encourage the military to permanently deploy a missile defense system on the island. She called on Trump to work with other nations, noting that China plays an especially large role in any issue involving North Korea, but expressed apprehension regarding the president’s rhetoric.
“The President’s tweet earlier today is concerning and unhelpful and does not lay out a clear strategy on how he will address the growing threats from North Korea. Kim Jung Un’s reckless behavior cannot be tolerated, and I strongly urge the President to explore every avenue to peacefully respond to it and avoid further escalating this situation,” she said.
In a statement released Wednesday headlined “no change in threat level from recent North Korea events,” Guam’s offices of homeland security and civil defense said it was continuing to monitor, in conjunction with the U.S. military, the threat posed by the Kim regime. In the statement, Guam’s homeland security adviser George Charfauros advised “the community to remain calm, remember that there are defenses in place for threats such as North Korea and to continue to remain prepared for all hazards.”
Senator Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), whose state is also home to a large military presence and would be another potentially vulnerable target for North Korea, called Trump’s comments “unwise” in a post to Twitter. He followed that post with a series of others, calling on the White House to send nominations for key diplomatic posts, including for ambassador to South Korea, to the Senate.
“We need vigorous diplomacy and to beef up missile defense. POTUS statement unwise in tone, substance. No gain from using such language,” the Hawaii lawmaker wrote. “It would be excellent to have a President experienced in foreign policy and government leadership next time.”
Representative Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), a member of the House armed services committee, called Trump’s “fire and fury” remark “irresponsible and alarming” in his own flurry of Twitter posts. “Instead of threats & over-the-top rhetoric, we need to pursue a smart, long-term strategy to address these growing threats,” he wrote. “Among the steps we should immediately consider are further economic sanctions aimed at those who continue to trade w/ North Korea.”
A coalition between Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP) would fall short of a majority in parliament if federal elections were held today, according to an opinion poll published Wednesday.
The conservative CDU together with its Bavarian sister party CSU remained stable compared to last week’s survey with 40 percent of the vote, while the FDP — led by 38-year-old Christian Lindner — lost 1 percentage point and fell back to 7 percent, according to the Stern-RTL Wahltrend.
Together, the possible coalition partners would only get 47 percent of the vote.
The FDP hasn’t seen the inside of the German parliament since 2013, when they suffered a humiliating general election thrashing that left the party without any seats in the Bundestag for the first time since 1949.
Lindner, credited by some for reviving the liberal party, has said he would pursue a softer line on Brexit, called for Greece to be granted debt relief and temporarily forced out of the eurozone, and suggested Germany consider the Russian annexation of Crimea a “permanent provisional solution.”
Martin Schulz’s Social Democratic Party (SPD), the current junior coalition partner in government, rose slightly in the polls to 23 percent after stagnating for four consecutive weeks. The Greens, leftist Die Linke and far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) are all projected to get 8 percent of the vote.
Asked who they would prefer as chancellor, half of the respondents opted for Merkel, while 21 percent chose Schulz, marking his lowest level of support since his nomination as the SPD’s candidate in January.
Germany goes to the polls on September 24.
Scottish ministers will call for increased powers during talks in Edinburgh on Wednesday, after again threatening to ax the U.K. government’s Repeal Bill, local media reported.
U.K. First Secretary of State Damian Green and Secretary of State for Scotland David Mundell are set to meet with Scottish Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Scotland’s Brexit minister, Michael Russell, to discuss what powers Holyrood will gain after Brexit.
The British government’s plan to convert the vast majority of EU law and regulation into English law — known as the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill, or Repeal Bill — was met with intense criticism from the devolved governments of Scotland and Wales when it was presented in July.
Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister and leader of the Scottish National Party, and Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones said the Repeal Bill was “a naked power-grab” that returned EU powers to Westminster instead of sharing them with Scotland and Wales.
In a statement prior to Wednesday’s meeting, Russell reiterated that both the Scottish and Welsh governments would withhold consent to the Repeal Bill in its current form and said he would make clear that changes must be made to protect devolution.
“The bill — as it currently stands — means that Westminster would take exclusive control over significant areas of devolved policy, such as support for Scotland’s farmers and food producers and many aspects of environmental protection and control of our seas,” he said.
“We know that the U.K. government has its eye on more than 100 policy areas. That is a direct threat to the devolution settlement which the people of Scotland overwhelmingly voted for in 1997.”
Russell added that Holyrood is not opposed in principle to U.K.-wide frameworks in certain areas, but that must be “on the basis of agreement among equals, not imposed by Westminster.”
Green, the U.K. first secretary of state, said the meeting showed the government’s “commitment to progressing discussions.”
“In some areas there will need to be a common approach,” he said. “There will be other areas where I intend that the Scottish and U.K. governments can make progress in identifying policy areas that could be released to Holyrood under the new legislative arrangements.”
“We expect there will be a significant increase in the decision-making power of each devolved administration and we want to address this in a way which delivers certainty and continuity for people and businesses across the U.K.”
In the June 2016 Brexit vote, Scotland overwhelmingly voted to remain in the EU. In an open letter in July, over 60 prominent figures from Scottish civil society urged the U.K. to reverse course on Brexit altogether.
Le Monde led with the ongoing egg scandal, as concerns in Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, the United Kingdom and France about the use of the chemical fipronil continue to spread. The French agriculture ministry is investigating two egg producers that may have dealt with contaminated eggs from the Netherlands.
It also reported on the refusal of the head of NGO Médecins Sans Frontières to allow police checks on its humanitarian work in Italy. Rome wants to tighten controls on NGOs and their refugee rescue operations in the Mediterranean after some workers were accused of facilitating migrants’ entry into Italy, rather than rescuing human lives at sea. MSF says it will not allow armed police officers on boats. “We have never done so in the 70 countries where we are present and throughout our 46 years of activity. We do not want to violate any of our principles,” MSF said.
Le Figaro summed up the busy fall Emmanuel Macron faces when parliament reconvenes later this month. The French president plans to push through a number of political and social reforms, and will be meeting foreign heads of state in Eastern Europe to talk about posted workers’ rights.


The Times led with a report on Home Secretary Amber Rudd’s support for an increase in police stop-and-search checks to tackle rising knife crime and acid attacks. Rudd and Cressida Dick, the Metropolitan Police commissioner, say they are worried about a surge in street violence.
Its front page also made space for U.S. President Donald Trump, who said he will hit North Korea with “fire and fury like the world has never seen.” His comments follow after U.S. intelligence concluded that North Korea had produced a nuclear warhead small enough to fit inside a ballistic missile.
The Scotsman led with a piece on Scottish Conservative Party leader Ruth Davidson challenging U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May on immigration policy by publicly questioning the governments’ net migration target. Davidson called on her party to rethink its stance and lead a “mature” debate on immigration.

German daily TAZ published an interview with Hamburg police chief Ralf Martin Meyer about the riots during the G20 summit in the city last month. He said police actions against violent demonstrators were justified. FAZ reported that today, one month after the violence, some 30 suspects are still under investigation. A hearing of one of the rioters will take place at the Hamburg Court on August 29. Asked about a recent knife attack in a Hamburg supermarket in which an asylum seeker killed one person and wounded another six, Meyer said the police was doing what it could to prevent such attacks but cautioned that it was extremely difficult to do so.
FAZ wrote this morning that MPs will be allowed to visit German soldiers on a NATO army base in Turkey on September 8. This type of visit had been banned as a result of a diplomatic row between Turkey and Germany. Turkey now agrees that German MPs can go ahead under NATO coordination, Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel told parliament.


Spanish newspapers focused on the excessive use of violence in Venezuela after a wave of anti-government protests. The U.N.’s high commissioner for human rights denounced the “widespread and systematic” use of “excessive force” by the regime of Nicolás Maduro against thousands of demonstrators, according to El País.
The Catalan government has said it will not abide by a possible suspension of the referendum law, El País also wrote, and intends to use the law to justify an independence referendum scheduled for October 1.
According to La Vanguardia, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy plans to offer Catalonia more money and investment in infrastructure after the referendum. The ruling Popular Party would be willing to consider constitutional changes, according to sources cited by the newspaper, but only after the vote takes place. The offer from Madrid to the Catalan government is dependent on the referendum outcome.


President Donald Trump’s warning Tuesday that North Korea “will be met with fire and fury” if it continues its saber rattling sparked new fears that the standoff over the regime’s advancing nuclear and missile programs could devolve into a shooting war.
The seemingly off-the-cuff broadside also reignited concerns raised during the presidential campaign that Trump’s tough rhetoric, including his previous calls to build up the American nuclear arsenal, could be dangerously destabilizing.
“The greatest North Korean threat we face is not from a nuclear-tipped missile hitting the U.S. mainland but from Washington stumbling into an inadvertent nuclear war on the Korean peninsula,” Siegfried Hecker, a former director of Los Alamos National Laboratory and a nuclear expert who has visited North Korea seven times since 2004, said in an email.
“The president’s statements exacerbate” such concerns, Hecker said.
The president’s remarks drew an almost immediate response from North Korea, which issued a statement saying it was “carefully examining” a plan to launch a preemptive strike on the U.S. territory of Guam, which lies about 2,000 miles away.
Trump made the comments from his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, where he is staying as the White House undergoes renovations for much of this month.
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen,” he told reporters, referring to the North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. “He has been very threatening beyond a normal state, and as I said, they will be met with fire and fury and, frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.”
Trump’s warning followed a report by the Washington Post, citing a confidential assessment, that North Korea has successfully created a miniaturized nuclear warhead that can fit inside its missiles.
The United Nations Security Council on Saturday unanimously imposed new sanctions on North Korea estimated at more than $1 billion as punishment for the nation’s outlawed nuclear and missile programs.
North Korea has vowed in response to continue strengthening its nuclear arsenal and threatened “thousands-fold” revenge against the U.S.
The communist government pledged to “make the U.S. pay dearly for all the heinous crimes it commits against the state and people of this country,” warning it will “teach the U.S. a severe lesson.”
Trump’s threat on Tuesday came after a reporter at Bedminster asked about North Korea after the president delivered a statement on the opioid crisis. The White House declined to explain Trump’s choice of words. Counselor Kellyanne Conway told reporters later Tuesday at the nearby Bridgewater Marriott Hotel that the president’s remarks were “very strong and obvious,” declining to elaborate further.
Several White House officials privately downplayed the statement, saying in some ways “it’s the way Trump talks,” in the words of one.
“He’s pissed off in private and he’s pissed off in public,” this person said.
The statement was not vetted through State Department channels, one official said, but Trump has asked an increasing number of questions about North Korea, this official said.
A Pentagon spokesman, Colonel Robert Manning, said he was “not aware of any change in policy” and directed all questions to the White House. The State Department also declined to comment.
But Trump’s use of the type of melodramatic rhetoric often employed by the reclusive North Korean leader and his government propaganda arms struck some experts as risky.
“What I think the risk is, is that the tit-for-tat rhetoric will escalate, and a small incident could explode and build into a larger conflict,” said Kelsey Davenport, director of nonproliferation policy at the Arms Control Association. “That increases the chance of war or even a nuclear exchange in the region.”
She said the warning could escalate already high tensions and elicit a bellicose response from North Korea, including possibly another intercontinental ballistic missile test.
Others who have been responsible for North Korea policy expressed similar concerns about the president’s approach — and the risk of miscalculation on the North Koreans’ part.
“They might think he means we would strike first. That could escalate out of control,” said Jon Wolfsthal, who was senior National Security Council official in the Obama administration. “Publicly he should say very little other than we will protect and defend ourselves and our allies. In just that calm a way. Privately we should tell North Korea directly that their weapons are unusable and any attack in us or our allies will bring about the end of the North Korean state. Their only option is to not use these weapons and return to negotiations.”
The anxiety over the president’s unexpected pronouncement was shared by conservatives.
“President Trump’s comments sound as if they were penned by Pyongyang,” said Bruce Klingner, a researcher at the hawkish Hertiage Foundation specializing in Northeast Asia. “His statement is unhelpful and will affirm growing perceptions that the U.S. is considering a preventative military attack against North Korea.”
The new warning to North Korea also drew criticism from Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill and renewed calls to find a way to negotiate with North Korea despite its insistence it will not accept as a precondition for talks that it halt its nuclear and missile programs.
“Isolating the North Koreans has not halted their pursuit of nuclear weapons. And President Trump is not helping the situation with his bombastic comments,” said Dianne Feinstein, a senior Democrat on the intelligence committee, adding that she believes diplomacy is “the only sound path forward.”
Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) told a Phoenix-area radio station, KTAR, that Trump’s comments could bring the United States and North Korea closer to confrontation.
“You got to be sure that you can do what you say you’re going to. In other words, the old walk softly but carry a big stick, Teddy Roosevelt’s saying,” McCain said. “I think this is very, very, very serious.”
Nolan McCaskill and Josh Dawsey contributed reporting.
A visit to Baku, Azerbaijan costing €75,000 was the most expensive trip made by a European commissioner in the first two months of 2016, according to travel expenses scrutinized by Belgian magazine Knack and published Wednesday.
In those two months, commissioners spent close to €500,000 on 261 official trips, Knack’s analysis shows. The costs of accommodation and transport were generally modest: The most expensive overnight stay, in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, cost €629.
Costs rose when commissioners used chartered planes — as happened when foreign affairs chief Federica Mogherini made the €75,000 trip to Baku. The Commission said such “air taxis” can be used if no commercial flights are available that fit a commissioner’s schedule.
Other expensive trips include European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s two-day visit to Rome in February 2016, which cost €27,000, and a trip to a series of countries, including Somalia and Turkey, by Christos Stylianides, the commissioner for humanitarian aid, for a total of €11,000.
These are the first expenses of this kind and scale to be made public and the Commission tried to stop them being disclosed. The documents on travel expenses were requested by Spanish transparency NGO Access Info, but the NGO spent three years tussling with the European Commission over which and how many documents it could look at. It is still pushing to get reports for other time periods.
“We just ask basic information about how the Commission is using public funds. Any taxpayer has the right to know how his money is spent,” Helen Darbishire, director of Access Info Europe, told Knack.
According to the Commission, making public the travel expenses for the rest of 2016 would create an “excessive administrative burden” and the EU institution is already “one of the most controlled organizations in the world,” having to submit its spending to the European Parliament and European Court of Auditors.
Günther Oettinger, now the budget commissioner, was last year criticized for taking a private plane to Budapest at the invitation of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The plane was owned by Klaus Mangold, a pro-Russia German businessman and lobbyist.
Commission deputy spokeswoman Mina Andreeva said Wednesday that the Juncker trip to Rome involved an air-taxi as the Commission president travelled with nine other people and no commercial flights were suitable.
 
NOVI PAZAR, Serbia — It avoided wars all around as Yugoslavia was ripped apart. But they left their scars nonetheless.
Sandžak, a Muslim-majority region, now straddles two independent countries, Serbia and Montenegro, and borders two more, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo. Most of Sandžak lies inside Serbia but people in Novi Pazar, the chaotic unofficial capital, complain they get little in the way of jobs, investment or respect from Belgrade.
Novi Pazar is sometimes decried by Serbs as a hotbed of radical Islam and the area has long been known as a key stop on the smuggling routes that crisscross the Balkans. Young Bosniaks — the Muslim ethnic group that predominates here — talk of feeling isolated and disparaged by Serbian society.
“There has been no conflict in this area, but if you have any mention of Novi Pazar on the news, it’s negative. Sandžak is the black sheep of Serbia,” said Dženan Hajrović, 31, a graphic designer and co-founder of Heroj (“Heroes”), a fashionable coffee shop and social enterprise not far from Novi Pazar’s Ottoman old town.
Sandžak has yearned, at various times in its history, to have more control over its own affairs. In October 1991, as Yugoslavia began to fracture, just shy of 99 percent of voters supported political autonomy in an unofficial referendum. Serbian authorities declared the vote unconstitutional.
Later, as neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina descended into war, Sandžak’s political demands became less vociferous, in part due to fears of a crackdown from Slobodan Milošević’s hardline nationalist regime in Belgrade.
“Any independence attempts in Sandžak would have probably been quickly quashed in blood in Serbia, where Bosniak communities were completely surrounded by Serb-populated communities and most communication with Bosnia was severed,” said Srećko Latal, a political analyst based in Sarajevo.
More than 25 years later, “Autonomy for Sandžak” is still being spray-painted on the crumbling communist-era apartment blocks near the center of Novi Pazar.
But rather than wait for constitutional change, Hajrović and his colleagues are working to shift perceptions of their hometown. They have painted colorful murals and shot videos of those they see as Novi Pazar’s heroes. There’s an elderly man who cleans the streets for free because the local government does not.
“There are a lot of problems here. The system isn’t working. There is a lot of corruption. We are fighting to build a network of heroes because we really need them,” said architect Tarik Brunčević, 27, who returned to Novi Pazar after living in Germany and Sarajevo.
Built in the 15th century, Novi Pazar was a bustling trading post on the Ottoman route into the Balkans. In the communist Yugoslavia ruled by Josip Broz Tito, the “new bazaar” was renowned for the quality of its counterfeit Levis.
The rag trade remains but now Novi Pazar is hemmed in by national borders, with rutted roads as bad as any in the Balkans. Illegal dump fires line the route from Bosnia-Herzegovina, spewing rubbish and acrid black smoke. Signs still point to “Titograd,” as the Montenegrin capital Podgorica was once known.
“Sandžak used to be in the center of trade routes. With the fall of Yugoslavia we became a border area between Kosovo, Montenegro, Bosnia and Serbia,” said Novi Pazar’s mayor, Nihat Biševac.
Earlier this year, over 4,000 people signed a petition calling for Sandžak to be declared a cross-border region similar to others in the European Union. That would allow Sandžak to bid for EU funds as a single region.
“We need regionalization to create natural economic regions,” said Biševac.
That case has been weakened by a dizzying level of political infighting within the Bosniak community. There are two Islamic associations, three main political parties, and around a dozen smaller outfits.
The most significant local powerbroker is Muamer Zukorlić, a controversial imam turned politician whose empire includes an international university, an Islamic center built largely without planning permission, kindergartens and a slew of other businesses. Zukorlić — whose support Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić now relies upon in parliament — is “involved in everything,” said Biševac.
Whether Zukorlic’s newly acquired power in Belgrade will bring much-needed investment in Sandžak remains to be seen. Many accuse the Serbian government of intentionally running the region down, in an effort to encourage its mainly Muslim population to leave.
“The people here want to be part of Serbia, they want to be citizens of Serbia but the Bosniak majority want to have a feeling that they are being recognized as citizens of Serbia and that their rights are being respected,” said a veteran representative of the international community based in Novi Pazar.
Some grievances seem relatively minor. Sandžak is not a standalone district within Serbia; instead it is administered from a small nearby city with a majority Serb population.
Others hint at darker prejudices.
“I have a hijab and when I go into another city in Serbia they look at me like I’m from Mars,” said Nusreta Hudović, a 25-year-old journalist who recently returned to Novi Pazar after five years in Turkey and is among the co-founders of Heroj.
Bosniaks, Serbs and many other ethnic groups have lived in Sandžak for centuries. But this long multicultural history has not been without problems.
Sandžak has become more visibly devout in recent years. Men with long beards and knee-length trousers drink Turkish tea. After the muezzin calls for Friday prayers, David Bowie cover versions play in an almost empty Heroj café.
There have been reports of radicalization, too. A 2011 attack on the U.S. embassy in Sarajevo was carried out by a native of Novi Pazar, Mevlid Jašarević. A few dozen Bosniaks from Sandžak have gone to Syria to fight, although some say numbers have fallen.
“At the beginning of the war in Syria, they did manage to attract some young people but more recently we have not heard of more people going to fight,” said Mayor Biševac. “But it did happen at the beginning. If you have unemployment it is easier to manipulate young people.”
Although Bosnia-Herzegovina’s inter-ethnic violence did not spread across the border in the 1990s, many Sandžak Bosniaks went to fight in that war. Tens of thousands of refugees went in the opposite direction. Nowadays many people here look more to Sarajevo and Istanbul than Belgrade.
“Since the war, many people in Sandžak identify far more with Bosnia than Serbia,” said Latal.
Calls for Sandžak to run its own affairs have not fizzled out completely, either. This month, the Bosniak National Council in Serbia will hold a commemoration to mark the centenary of the Sjenica Declaration, which called for the secession of Sandžak from Serbia and Montenegro and was signed in the south Serbian town of Sjenica.
Nowadays Sjenica is a sleepy and verdant station on the migrant route through the Balkans. A dozen or so male refugees sit on the steps of a local hotel, avoiding the midday sun before attempting yet another border crossing through the wild forests. Syrian refugees’ clothes dry on the railings outside the nearby center for asylum seekers.
“We have a lot of refugees here. We like them,” said Hrmak Cemal, who runs a small store selling fresh cheese and smoked meats in Sjenica. “We try to give them jobs if we can. We cannot leave these people without help. It is a sin if someone comes looking for food and you don’t give it to them.”
Cemal, a soft-faced 63-year-old with a warm smile, studied textiles at university in the 1970s before working in the local garment industry. He lost his job after the war. The change he wants to see now is economic, not constitutional.
“It used to be really busy. We used to make good money, during Tito’s time. That’s all gone. We have no jobs here now.”
“All the factories are closed now, except one. Milošević closed down all the factories here.”
Despite Sandžak’s perilous economic situation, and anger at Belgrade, Cemal said most Muslims are happy to live in Serbia, and alongside Serb neighbors.
“Milošević wanted to separate us but he didn’t manage it. They tried to inspire those divisions here but it didn’t work. Even now we don’t look at each other that way. We live together.”
PARIS — Brigitte Macron will not be given the official title of “first lady” after an online uproar that roused France from its summer slumber.
However, she will still be widely referred to as the first lady and have access to a small staff to run her office, housed near her husband’s.
President Emmanuel Macron’s push to change his wife’s official status seems to have confused quite a lot of people, including the man who launched the petition that stopped the plan in its tracks.
Nearly 30o,000 people signed the petition set up by artist and activist Thierry Paul Valette, who argued that Brigitte Macron should not be legally recognized as first lady because doing so would give her access to a “budget” with “public funds.”
Valette also said the move would be unfair as the French parliament has backed legislation barring MPs from employing their spouses and relatives — a direct response to the fake jobs scandal that scuppered conservative François Fillon’s chances of becoming president.
On Tuesday, when the Elysée suggested it would not pursue legislation changing Brigitte Macron’s legal status (and instead would publish a “transparency charter” with detailed accounts on her activities), Valette took to Facebook to declare a “beautiful citizens’ victory.”
“Emmanuel Macron has backed down on his position in light of our mobilization these last few days, and we thank him for it,” wrote Valette.
The artist, who campaigned against Macron during the presidential and parliamentary elections, had scored a political point against a president whose approval ratings are in free fall because of budget cuts and controversial reform plans.
In doing so he was in step with far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon, whose party criticized Brigitte Macron getting first lady status in parliament last month (despite no legislation on the issue being on the agenda).
However, their main argument against the idea — that she should not be using taxpayers’ money to pay staff — seemed to miss the point. Title or no title, Brigitte Macron’s arrangement at the Elysée will be no different than that of every presidential spouse since the time of Valéry Giscard d’Estaing.
Except in one important regard: Brigitte Macron will get less money than her predecessor — François Hollande’s now former partner Valerie Trierweiler — because of solidarity with budget constraints elsewhere, and her staff resources will be made public for the first time (previously it was wrapped up with the rest of the Elysée’s operating budget).
Making the office of the president’s partner more transparent — and avoiding accusations that she was wasting taxpayers’ money — were precisely the reasons Macron suggested changing her status at the Elysée.
Yet the protesters were not necessarily interested in transparency, they wanted to force the president to back down.
In that sense, they have likely succeeded. An Elysée spokesman told POLITICO that a statement to be issued in the coming weeks regarding Brigitte Macron’s status would clarify her role and number of staff, but not dwell on her legal status.
In other words, she is unlikely to be put on par, title-wise, with Melania Trump.
The former teacher will still be able to run a children’s charity. She just won’t be able to do so in an officially recognized capacity. And yet the press and some official communications will still refer to her as “la Première Dame” — a direct translation of “first lady.”
If, as he has clearly signaled, President Donald Trump chooses in the coming months to hold Iran in noncompliance of the nuclear accord, the impact will be felt in Tehran and the already volatile Middle East.
But the more serious casualty could be both more widespread and more distant—thousands of miles away, on the Korean Peninsula. And the Trump administration needs to begin connecting the dots now.
The United States has few options for dealing with the North Korean nuclear challenge, and no good ones. A pre-emptive strike risks an unspeakable catastrophe. Sanctions have not worked, and tightening them further is no more likely to. Diplomatic talks will be difficult for the United States because an agreement would involve a compromise that would allow North Korea to keep its nuclear weapons. Nonetheless, if the goal is to prevent Pyongyang from developing an accurate nuclear-tipped ICBM, then negotiating with Pyongyang may well be the only way to try to defuse a looming crisis.
Even under current conditions, such talks would be fraught, the odds tilted against success. But if the U.S. thrusts aside the nuclear deal with Iran—and uses contrived evidence to do so—the message to North Korea and others will be that America’s word is disposable and the U.S. cannot be trusted to honor its commitments. This would deal a possibly fatal blow to any chance of a diplomatic effort to, if not halt or reverse, at a minimum slow down North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
Indeed, walking away from the Iran deal, or contriving circumstances that force Iran to do so, would not only open up a now dormant nuclear crisis with Tehran, it would also close down perhaps the only option that might prevent a far more dangerous crisis with North Korea.
North Korea already harbors heightened suspicion and mistrust of Washington’s motives, fearing that the U.S.’ real objective is removal of the Kim regime and reunification of the Korean Peninsula under South Korean leadership. U.S. abandonment, without just cause, of the Iran deal would both validate and exacerbate those beliefs; to Pyongyang, the lesson would be that Washington saw diplomacy merely as a prelude to efforts to isolate, pressure and seek to remove the Iranian regime. Why would Kim Jong Un even begin negotiations if he is convinced that Washington would then look for excuses to unravel an agreement, should one be reached?
The message from Washington, of course, would not be heard in Pyongyang alone. The administration’s too-clever-by-half strategy of messing around with the Iranian nuclear accord—doing just enough to tempt Tehran to walk away from the deal after Trump publicly acknowledged that his goal is to undo it—almost certainly would undermine its credibility with nations whose cooperation it desperately needs to deal with the North Korean nuclear challenge. The recent unanimous U.N. Security Council resolution imposing tougher sanctions on North Korea demonstrates two things: first, that a unilateral U.S. approach is impracticable; and second, that China and Russia can be useful partners in pressing Pyongyang on its ballistic missile and nuclear programs. If anything, the Trump administration is banking too heavily on Beijing to somehow solve the problem on our behalf.
But consider China’s reaction should the U.S. treat the nuclear agreement with Iran in a slapdash, dismissive manner. Beijing might well be angered given its interests in buying Iran’s oil and investing in its infrastructure. But it would be positively alarmed at the implications for North Korea, which presents China with a major security headache on its doorstep. China long has maintained that diplomacy with Pyongyang is the only viable answer to the North Korean nuclear problem, and it believes in the six-party format, which, not entirely unlike the seven-party format of the Iran negotiations, includes both China and the U.S. The precedent of the U.S. effectively dismissing an accord negotiated by a team of countries and ratified by the U.N. Security Council would give China considerable pause, raise serious questions in its mind about whether the U.S. can be trusted not to act similarly with North Korea, and make it virtually impossible for Beijing to vouch for Washington’s good faith vis-à-vis Pyongyang.
Allies also might lose faith. Throughout the long-simmering nuclear crisis with North Korea, the Bush and Obama administrations managed to preserve solidarity with South Korea and Japan. Going forward, any sustainable solution to this crisis will require implementation of a joint U.S.-South Korea strategy backed by Japan. Moon Jae-In, South Korea’s newly elected president, is a strong proponent of engagement with the North, and both Seoul and Tokyo are desperate to contain the North’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities. It’s hardly an exaggeration to suggest that both would be apoplectic if, by repudiating the nuclear accord with Iran, the U.S. effectively cut off the path to a diplomatic solution on the peninsula.
The odds against a negotiated agreement with North Korea are preternaturally long, but it would be the height of irresponsibility not to test its possibility. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson recently offered the welcome suggestion that the U.S. is open to diplomacy and reassurance to Pyongyang that the U.S. is not intent on regime change. Surely, both he and others in the administration—Generals James Mattis, H.R. McMaster and John Kelly in particular, all of whom reportedly lobbied for Trump to certify Iranian compliance with the nuclear accord the last time around—understand how hollow those words will ring if, the next time certification is in play, they fail to persuade the president. The least one can hope is that they will see the linkage, because it’s a pretty good bet that this president won’t. And it’s just as good a bet that, by failing to peek just around the corner, he would be creating the prospect of a two-front nuclear crisis that America and the world can ill afford.
Aaron David Miller is a vice president and distinguished scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and was a Middle East negotiator in Democratic and Republican administrations.
Richard Sokolsky is a non-resident senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. From 2005-2015, he served as a member of the Secretary of State’s Office of Policy Planning.
Robert Malley is vice president for policy at the International Crisis Group. He served as White House coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa and Gulf region in the Obama administration.
BERLIN — Martin Schulz said Tuesday he intends to stay as leader of Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) even if he fails to beat his rival Angela Merkel in federal elections on September 24.
“I will obviously stand for reelection at the next party convention,” Schulz said at a Berlin event hosted by a German media group. “The SPD could use some longer terms for its chairmen.”
Schulz’s comments indicate that he is at least entertaining the possibility of defeat in September, despite his party colleagues’ frequent public reminders that the campaign has only just begun in earnest and that many voters remain undecided.
Having brought his party neck-to-neck with Merkel’s conservatives not long after he took over the party leadership in January, Schulz has since struggled to maintain the momentum, with the Social Democrats trailing the Christian Democrats by double digits in recent polls.
Schulz is the first Social Democrat since former chancellor Gerhard Schröder in 2002 to act as both party chairman and candidate for chancellor. In the past three elections, the roles were held by different people.
Schulz has embarked on a campaign tour with public appearances across Germany. However, he has also had to grapple with the fallout from a series of controversies that beset his party’s regional government in Lower Saxony, including the defection of a lawmaker and accusations of being too close to the car industry.
Merkel is expected to begin her campaign tour in the coming week.
NATO rebuked Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for visiting the breakaway Georgian region of Abkhazia on the ninth anniversary of a brief war over the territory and another disputed region, South Ossetia.
Russia has all but annexed the two regions, which exist only thanks to Russian economic aid and the protection of the Russian military and security services. Putin signed an agreement effectively integrating South Ossetia in 2015 and a similar treaty with Abkhazia in 2014.
Russia has been accused repeatedly by Georgia and the West of further encroaching on Georgia’s territorial sovereignty by surreptitiously moving the borders.
Putin met Tuesday with the president of Abkhazia, Raul Khadzhimba, in the Black Sea resort town of Pitsunda, and a NATO spokesman in Brussels quickly denounced the Russian leader’s move.
“President Putin’s visit to the Abkhazia region of Georgia — on the ninth anniversary of the armed conflict — is detrimental to international efforts to find a peaceful and negotiated settlement,” the spokesman, Dylan White, said in a statement. “We regret that this visit was carried out without prior consent of the Georgian authorities.”
“NATO is united in full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally-recognized borders,” White said. “We will not recognize any attempts to change the status of Abkhazia and South Ossetia as regions of Georgia.”
At Putin’s meeting, the Russian and Abkhazian health ministers signed an agreement to extend Russian government health insurance to Russian citizens living in Abkhazia. Effectively, all residents of Abkhazia can obtain Russian citizenship.
“Guests, from wherever they come, including from Russia, should understand and feel that they are under reliable protection,” Putin said at the meeting, according to a statement by the Kremlin.
A visit to Baku, Azerbaijan costing €75,000 was the most expensive trip made by a European commissioner in the first two months of 2016, according to travel expenses scrutinized by Belgian magazine Knack and published Wednesday.
In those two months, commissioners spent close to €500,000 on 261 official trips, Knack’s analysis shows. The costs of accommodation and transport were generally modest: The most expensive overnight stay, in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, cost €629.
Costs rose when commissioners used chartered planes — as happened when foreign affairs chief Federica Mogherini made the €75,000 trip to Baku. The Commission said such “air taxis” can be used if no commercial flights are available that fit a commissioner’s schedule.
Other expensive trips include European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s two-day visit to Rome in February 2016, which cost €27,000, and a trip to a series of countries, including Somalia and Turkey, by Christos Stylianides, the commissioner for humanitarian aid, for a total of €11,000.
These are the first expenses of this kind and scale to be made public and the Commission tried to stop them being disclosed. The documents on travel expenses were requested by Spanish transparency NGO Access Info, but the NGO spent three years tussling with the European Commission over which and how many documents it could look at. It is still pushing to get reports for other time periods.
“We just ask basic information about how the Commission is using public funds. Any taxpayer has the right to know how his money is spent,” Helen Darbishire, director of Access Info Europe, told Knack.
According to the Commission, making public the travel expenses for the rest of 2016 would create an “excessive administrative burden” and the EU institution is already “one of the most controlled organizations in the world,” having to submit its spending to the European Parliament and European Court of Auditors.
Günther Oettinger, now the budget commissioner, was last year criticized for taking a private plane to Budapest at the invitation of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The plane was owned by Klaus Mangold, a pro-Russia German businessman and lobbyist.
Commission deputy spokeswoman Mina Andreeva said Wednesday that the Juncker trip to Rome involved an air-taxi as the Commission president travelled with nine other people and no commercial flights were suitable.
 
NOVI PAZAR, Serbia — It avoided wars all around as Yugoslavia was ripped apart. But they left their scars nonetheless.
Sandžak, a Muslim-majority region, now straddles two independent countries, Serbia and Montenegro, and borders two more, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo. Most of Sandžak lies inside Serbia but people in Novi Pazar, the chaotic unofficial capital, complain they get little in the way of jobs, investment or respect from Belgrade.
Novi Pazar is sometimes decried by Serbs as a hotbed of radical Islam and the area has long been known as a key stop on the smuggling routes that crisscross the Balkans. Young Bosniaks — the Muslim ethnic group that predominates here — talk of feeling isolated and disparaged by Serbian society.
“There has been no conflict in this area, but if you have any mention of Novi Pazar on the news, it’s negative. Sandžak is the black sheep of Serbia,” said Dženan Hajrović, 31, a graphic designer and co-founder of Heroj (“Heroes”), a fashionable coffee shop and social enterprise not far from Novi Pazar’s Ottoman old town.
Sandžak has yearned, at various times in its history, to have more control over its own affairs. In October 1991, as Yugoslavia began to fracture, just shy of 99 percent of voters supported political autonomy in an unofficial referendum. Serbian authorities declared the vote unconstitutional.
Later, as neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina descended into war, Sandžak’s political demands became less vociferous, in part due to fears of a crackdown from Slobodan Milošević’s hardline nationalist regime in Belgrade.
“Any independence attempts in Sandžak would have probably been quickly quashed in blood in Serbia, where Bosniak communities were completely surrounded by Serb-populated communities and most communication with Bosnia was severed,” said Srećko Latal, a political analyst based in Sarajevo.
More than 25 years later, “Autonomy for Sandžak” is still being spray-painted on the crumbling communist-era apartment blocks near the center of Novi Pazar.
But rather than wait for constitutional change, Hajrović and his colleagues are working to shift perceptions of their hometown. They have painted colorful murals and shot videos of those they see as Novi Pazar’s heroes. There’s an elderly man who cleans the streets for free because the local government does not.
“There are a lot of problems here. The system isn’t working. There is a lot of corruption. We are fighting to build a network of heroes because we really need them,” said architect Tarik Brunčević, 27, who returned to Novi Pazar after living in Germany and Sarajevo.
Built in the 15th century, Novi Pazar was a bustling trading post on the Ottoman route into the Balkans. In the communist Yugoslavia ruled by Josip Broz Tito, the “new bazaar” was renowned for the quality of its counterfeit Levis.
The rag trade remains but now Novi Pazar is hemmed in by national borders, with rutted roads as bad as any in the Balkans. Illegal dump fires line the route from Bosnia-Herzegovina, spewing rubbish and acrid black smoke. Signs still point to “Titograd,” as the Montenegrin capital Podgorica was once known.
“Sandžak used to be in the center of trade routes. With the fall of Yugoslavia we became a border area between Kosovo, Montenegro, Bosnia and Serbia,” said Novi Pazar’s mayor, Nihat Biševac.
Earlier this year, over 4,000 people signed a petition calling for Sandžak to be declared a cross-border region similar to others in the European Union. That would allow Sandžak to bid for EU funds as a single region.
“We need regionalization to create natural economic regions,” said Biševac.
That case has been weakened by a dizzying level of political infighting within the Bosniak community. There are two Islamic associations, three main political parties, and around a dozen smaller outfits.
The most significant local powerbroker is Muamer Zukorlić, a controversial imam turned politician whose empire includes an international university, an Islamic center built largely without planning permission, kindergartens and a slew of other businesses. Zukorlić — whose support Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić now relies upon in parliament — is “involved in everything,” said Biševac.
Whether Zukorlic’s newly acquired power in Belgrade will bring much-needed investment in Sandžak remains to be seen. Many accuse the Serbian government of intentionally running the region down, in an effort to encourage its mainly Muslim population to leave.
“The people here want to be part of Serbia, they want to be citizens of Serbia but the Bosniak majority want to have a feeling that they are being recognized as citizens of Serbia and that their rights are being respected,” said a veteran representative of the international community based in Novi Pazar.
Some grievances seem relatively minor. Sandžak is not a standalone district within Serbia; instead it is administered from a small nearby city with a majority Serb population.
Others hint at darker prejudices.
“I have a hijab and when I go into another city in Serbia they look at me like I’m from Mars,” said Nusreta Hudović, a 25-year-old journalist who recently returned to Novi Pazar after five years in Turkey and is among the co-founders of Heroj.
Bosniaks, Serbs and many other ethnic groups have lived in Sandžak for centuries. But this long multicultural history has not been without problems.
Sandžak has become more visibly devout in recent years. Men with long beards and knee-length trousers drink Turkish tea. After the muezzin calls for Friday prayers, David Bowie cover versions play in an almost empty Heroj café.
There have been reports of radicalization, too. A 2011 attack on the U.S. embassy in Sarajevo was carried out by a native of Novi Pazar, Mevlid Jašarević. A few dozen Bosniaks from Sandžak have gone to Syria to fight, although some say numbers have fallen.
“At the beginning of the war in Syria, they did manage to attract some young people but more recently we have not heard of more people going to fight,” said Mayor Biševac. “But it did happen at the beginning. If you have unemployment it is easier to manipulate young people.”
Although Bosnia-Herzegovina’s inter-ethnic violence did not spread across the border in the 1990s, many Sandžak Bosniaks went to fight in that war. Tens of thousands of refugees went in the opposite direction. Nowadays many people here look more to Sarajevo and Istanbul than Belgrade.
“Since the war, many people in Sandžak identify far more with Bosnia than Serbia,” said Latal.
Calls for Sandžak to run its own affairs have not fizzled out completely, either. This month, the Bosniak National Council in Serbia will hold a commemoration to mark the centenary of the Sjenica Declaration, which called for the secession of Sandžak from Serbia and Montenegro and was signed in the south Serbian town of Sjenica.
Nowadays Sjenica is a sleepy and verdant station on the migrant route through the Balkans. A dozen or so male refugees sit on the steps of a local hotel, avoiding the midday sun before attempting yet another border crossing through the wild forests. Syrian refugees’ clothes dry on the railings outside the nearby center for asylum seekers.
“We have a lot of refugees here. We like them,” said Hrmak Cemal, who runs a small store selling fresh cheese and smoked meats in Sjenica. “We try to give them jobs if we can. We cannot leave these people without help. It is a sin if someone comes looking for food and you don’t give it to them.”
Cemal, a soft-faced 63-year-old with a warm smile, studied textiles at university in the 1970s before working in the local garment industry. He lost his job after the war. The change he wants to see now is economic, not constitutional.
“It used to be really busy. We used to make good money, during Tito’s time. That’s all gone. We have no jobs here now.”
“All the factories are closed now, except one. Milošević closed down all the factories here.”
Despite Sandžak’s perilous economic situation, and anger at Belgrade, Cemal said most Muslims are happy to live in Serbia, and alongside Serb neighbors.
“Milošević wanted to separate us but he didn’t manage it. They tried to inspire those divisions here but it didn’t work. Even now we don’t look at each other that way. We live together.”
PARIS — Brigitte Macron will not be given the official title of “first lady” after an online uproar that roused France from its summer slumber.
However, she will still be widely referred to as the first lady and have access to a small staff to run her office, housed near her husband’s.
President Emmanuel Macron’s push to change his wife’s official status seems to have confused quite a lot of people, including the man who launched the petition that stopped the plan in its tracks.
Nearly 30o,000 people signed the petition set up by artist and activist Thierry Paul Valette, who argued that Brigitte Macron should not be legally recognized as first lady because doing so would give her access to a “budget” with “public funds.”
Valette also said the move would be unfair as the French parliament has backed legislation barring MPs from employing their spouses and relatives — a direct response to the fake jobs scandal that scuppered conservative François Fillon’s chances of becoming president.
On Tuesday, when the Elysée suggested it would not pursue legislation changing Brigitte Macron’s legal status (and instead would publish a “transparency charter” with detailed accounts on her activities), Valette took to Facebook to declare a “beautiful citizens’ victory.”
“Emmanuel Macron has backed down on his position in light of our mobilization these last few days, and we thank him for it,” wrote Valette.
The artist, who campaigned against Macron during the presidential and parliamentary elections, had scored a political point against a president whose approval ratings are in free fall because of budget cuts and controversial reform plans.
In doing so he was in step with far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon, whose party criticized Brigitte Macron getting first lady status in parliament last month (despite no legislation on the issue being on the agenda).
However, their main argument against the idea — that she should not be using taxpayers’ money to pay staff — seemed to miss the point. Title or no title, Brigitte Macron’s arrangement at the Elysée will be no different than that of every presidential spouse since the time of Valéry Giscard d’Estaing.
Except in one important regard: Brigitte Macron will get less money than her predecessor — François Hollande’s now former partner Valerie Trierweiler — because of solidarity with budget constraints elsewhere, and her staff resources will be made public for the first time (previously it was wrapped up with the rest of the Elysée’s operating budget).
Making the office of the president’s partner more transparent — and avoiding accusations that she was wasting taxpayers’ money — were precisely the reasons Macron suggested changing her status at the Elysée.
Yet the protesters were not necessarily interested in transparency, they wanted to force the president to back down.
In that sense, they have likely succeeded. An Elysée spokesman told POLITICO that a statement to be issued in the coming weeks regarding Brigitte Macron’s status would clarify her role and number of staff, but not dwell on her legal status.
In other words, she is unlikely to be put on par, title-wise, with Melania Trump.
The former teacher will still be able to run a children’s charity. She just won’t be able to do so in an officially recognized capacity. And yet the press and some official communications will still refer to her as “la Première Dame” — a direct translation of “first lady.”
If, as he has clearly signaled, President Donald Trump chooses in the coming months to hold Iran in noncompliance of the nuclear accord, the impact will be felt in Tehran and the already volatile Middle East.
But the more serious casualty could be both more widespread and more distant—thousands of miles away, on the Korean Peninsula. And the Trump administration needs to begin connecting the dots now.
The United States has few options for dealing with the North Korean nuclear challenge, and no good ones. A pre-emptive strike risks an unspeakable catastrophe. Sanctions have not worked, and tightening them further is no more likely to. Diplomatic talks will be difficult for the United States because an agreement would involve a compromise that would allow North Korea to keep its nuclear weapons. Nonetheless, if the goal is to prevent Pyongyang from developing an accurate nuclear-tipped ICBM, then negotiating with Pyongyang may well be the only way to try to defuse a looming crisis.
Even under current conditions, such talks would be fraught, the odds tilted against success. But if the U.S. thrusts aside the nuclear deal with Iran—and uses contrived evidence to do so—the message to North Korea and others will be that America’s word is disposable and the U.S. cannot be trusted to honor its commitments. This would deal a possibly fatal blow to any chance of a diplomatic effort to, if not halt or reverse, at a minimum slow down North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
Indeed, walking away from the Iran deal, or contriving circumstances that force Iran to do so, would not only open up a now dormant nuclear crisis with Tehran, it would also close down perhaps the only option that might prevent a far more dangerous crisis with North Korea.
North Korea already harbors heightened suspicion and mistrust of Washington’s motives, fearing that the U.S.’ real objective is removal of the Kim regime and reunification of the Korean Peninsula under South Korean leadership. U.S. abandonment, without just cause, of the Iran deal would both validate and exacerbate those beliefs; to Pyongyang, the lesson would be that Washington saw diplomacy merely as a prelude to efforts to isolate, pressure and seek to remove the Iranian regime. Why would Kim Jong Un even begin negotiations if he is convinced that Washington would then look for excuses to unravel an agreement, should one be reached?
The message from Washington, of course, would not be heard in Pyongyang alone. The administration’s too-clever-by-half strategy of messing around with the Iranian nuclear accord—doing just enough to tempt Tehran to walk away from the deal after Trump publicly acknowledged that his goal is to undo it—almost certainly would undermine its credibility with nations whose cooperation it desperately needs to deal with the North Korean nuclear challenge. The recent unanimous U.N. Security Council resolution imposing tougher sanctions on North Korea demonstrates two things: first, that a unilateral U.S. approach is impracticable; and second, that China and Russia can be useful partners in pressing Pyongyang on its ballistic missile and nuclear programs. If anything, the Trump administration is banking too heavily on Beijing to somehow solve the problem on our behalf.
But consider China’s reaction should the U.S. treat the nuclear agreement with Iran in a slapdash, dismissive manner. Beijing might well be angered given its interests in buying Iran’s oil and investing in its infrastructure. But it would be positively alarmed at the implications for North Korea, which presents China with a major security headache on its doorstep. China long has maintained that diplomacy with Pyongyang is the only viable answer to the North Korean nuclear problem, and it believes in the six-party format, which, not entirely unlike the seven-party format of the Iran negotiations, includes both China and the U.S. The precedent of the U.S. effectively dismissing an accord negotiated by a team of countries and ratified by the U.N. Security Council would give China considerable pause, raise serious questions in its mind about whether the U.S. can be trusted not to act similarly with North Korea, and make it virtually impossible for Beijing to vouch for Washington’s good faith vis-à-vis Pyongyang.
Allies also might lose faith. Throughout the long-simmering nuclear crisis with North Korea, the Bush and Obama administrations managed to preserve solidarity with South Korea and Japan. Going forward, any sustainable solution to this crisis will require implementation of a joint U.S.-South Korea strategy backed by Japan. Moon Jae-In, South Korea’s newly elected president, is a strong proponent of engagement with the North, and both Seoul and Tokyo are desperate to contain the North’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities. It’s hardly an exaggeration to suggest that both would be apoplectic if, by repudiating the nuclear accord with Iran, the U.S. effectively cut off the path to a diplomatic solution on the peninsula.
The odds against a negotiated agreement with North Korea are preternaturally long, but it would be the height of irresponsibility not to test its possibility. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson recently offered the welcome suggestion that the U.S. is open to diplomacy and reassurance to Pyongyang that the U.S. is not intent on regime change. Surely, both he and others in the administration—Generals James Mattis, H.R. McMaster and John Kelly in particular, all of whom reportedly lobbied for Trump to certify Iranian compliance with the nuclear accord the last time around—understand how hollow those words will ring if, the next time certification is in play, they fail to persuade the president. The least one can hope is that they will see the linkage, because it’s a pretty good bet that this president won’t. And it’s just as good a bet that, by failing to peek just around the corner, he would be creating the prospect of a two-front nuclear crisis that America and the world can ill afford.
Aaron David Miller is a vice president and distinguished scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and was a Middle East negotiator in Democratic and Republican administrations.
Richard Sokolsky is a non-resident senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. From 2005-2015, he served as a member of the Secretary of State’s Office of Policy Planning.
Robert Malley is vice president for policy at the International Crisis Group. He served as White House coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa and Gulf region in the Obama administration.
BERLIN — Martin Schulz said Tuesday he intends to stay as leader of Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) even if he fails to beat his rival Angela Merkel in federal elections on September 24.
“I will obviously stand for reelection at the next party convention,” Schulz said at a Berlin event hosted by a German media group. “The SPD could use some longer terms for its chairmen.”
Schulz’s comments indicate that he is at least entertaining the possibility of defeat in September, despite his party colleagues’ frequent public reminders that the campaign has only just begun in earnest and that many voters remain undecided.
Having brought his party neck-to-neck with Merkel’s conservatives not long after he took over the party leadership in January, Schulz has since struggled to maintain the momentum, with the Social Democrats trailing the Christian Democrats by double digits in recent polls.
Schulz is the first Social Democrat since former chancellor Gerhard Schröder in 2002 to act as both party chairman and candidate for chancellor. In the past three elections, the roles were held by different people.
Schulz has embarked on a campaign tour with public appearances across Germany. However, he has also had to grapple with the fallout from a series of controversies that beset his party’s regional government in Lower Saxony, including the defection of a lawmaker and accusations of being too close to the car industry.
Merkel is expected to begin her campaign tour in the coming week.
NATO rebuked Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for visiting the breakaway Georgian region of Abkhazia on the ninth anniversary of a brief war over the territory and another disputed region, South Ossetia.
Russia has all but annexed the two regions, which exist only thanks to Russian economic aid and the protection of the Russian military and security services. Putin signed an agreement effectively integrating South Ossetia in 2015 and a similar treaty with Abkhazia in 2014.
Russia has been accused repeatedly by Georgia and the West of further encroaching on Georgia’s territorial sovereignty by surreptitiously moving the borders.
Putin met Tuesday with the president of Abkhazia, Raul Khadzhimba, in the Black Sea resort town of Pitsunda, and a NATO spokesman in Brussels quickly denounced the Russian leader’s move.
“President Putin’s visit to the Abkhazia region of Georgia — on the ninth anniversary of the armed conflict — is detrimental to international efforts to find a peaceful and negotiated settlement,” the spokesman, Dylan White, said in a statement. “We regret that this visit was carried out without prior consent of the Georgian authorities.”
“NATO is united in full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally-recognized borders,” White said. “We will not recognize any attempts to change the status of Abkhazia and South Ossetia as regions of Georgia.”
At Putin’s meeting, the Russian and Abkhazian health ministers signed an agreement to extend Russian government health insurance to Russian citizens living in Abkhazia. Effectively, all residents of Abkhazia can obtain Russian citizenship.
“Guests, from wherever they come, including from Russia, should understand and feel that they are under reliable protection,” Putin said at the meeting, according to a statement by the Kremlin.
WASHINGTON — Media bashing has become one of the organizing principles of Donald Trump’s presidency. But behind the scenes, the Trump machine is eagerly promoting the nuggets of positive press it receives from the very outlets the president seeks to discredit.
The White House director of rapid response, Andy Hemming, 31, spends his days immersed in cable television, Twitter, print and online media to suss out positive stories about Trump, which he blasts back out to his list of more than 1,000 influencers — mainly reporters, but also television talking heads — who together craft the overall story of Trump’s presidency.
There’s nothing new about an administration trying to promote its wins. But in the Trump White House, where Hemming’s job is not to discredit the mainstream media but to celebrate stories the administration likes, it can seem like he is trying to bail out a sinking boat with a teacup.
And it’s a role that feels out of sync with Trump’s constant attacks on the press. Trump spent the first day of his summer break Monday tweetstorming about the country’s major cable networks and newspapers. “Hard to believe that with 24/7 #Fake News on CNN, ABC, NBC, CBS, NYTIMES & WAPO, the Trump base is getting stronger!” Trump tweeted Monday morning from Bedminster, New Jersey, where he is installed on his golf course for a two-week vacation.
He followed up later on a wet, unconducive-to-golfing afternoon, with a honed Twitter attack launched at his favorite target: “How much longer will the failing nytimes, with its big losses and massive unfunded liability (and non-existent sources), remain in business?”
A New York Times spokesperson said the business is actually growing in profit, income, revenues and paid subscriptions.
In July, Trump posted a video of himself wrestling to the ground a man with a CNN logo obscuring his face — a post that has since been retweeted more than 370,000 times. But Hemming that same month highlighted clips from the network, including one of California Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein telling anchor Wolf Blitzer she saw no evidence of collusion between Russian operatives and the Trump campaign.
“They don’t always get it wrong,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said of mainstream news outlets like The New York Times and CNN. “But for every one good story we push out, there are probably 150 really bad process stories, or hit pieces, on the administration. We think a lot of times, the stories that we push out have been given very little coverage.”
On July 18, for instance, while Trump tweeted about the “Fake News story of secret dinner with Putin” — he called the story “sick” — Hemming was highlighting a story from the allegedly ailing Grey Lady.
“The New York Times’ Carl Hulse has a solid explainer on the Senate Democrats’ unprecedented effort to block President Trump’s nominees,” Hemming wrote, with a link to the story. Earlier in July, Hemming emailed out a New York Times piece that he called “a good article on how small businesses across the country are cheering President Trump’s decision to pull out of the Paris Accord.”
“It’s an important role,” said Jason Miller, a former Trump campaign spokesman who worked closely with Hemming from the 2016 war room in Trump Tower. “There’s so much good news that’s coming out of this administration, that we have to continue pushing all of these positive messages ourselves to remind people there’s a lot going on.” (Miller is now a paid contributor on CNN.)
Hemming, who is paid $89,000 a year, is a career Republican campaign operative who until he entered Trump’s orbit had worked for establishment GOP figures like Meg Whitman, during her failed run for governor in California; Mitt Romney, during his unsuccessful 2012 bid for president; and Greg Abbott, during his successful run for Texas governor. Last year, he worked for former Texas Governor Rick Perry’s campaign before going to the Republican National Committee and being embedded in Trump Tower for the final 100 days of the general election.
He’s always been a behind-the-scenes operative, associates said, but for the first few weeks of the administration, Hemming was toiling, perhaps for the first time in his life, in total obscurity. Hemming would blast out his carefully curated clips, sometimes multiple times a day, with the goal of driving more positive news coverage.
But for weeks, sources inside the White House said, no one informed him that the White House IT system could not handle an email going out to such a big list, and all of his emails were being blocked by a firewall and reaching an audience of zero readers. That glitch has since been corrected, and the administration thinks Hemming is helping to slowly change the course of the coverage it gets.
“Andy does an incredible job of finding those hidden gems and trying to amplify those positive messages,” Sanders said. “He’s quick, and I would say he has a very good pulse on what’s hot, but also on what wasn’t hot but should be.”
He declined to comment for this story.
The fact-checker column in the newspaper Trump now refers to disparagingly as the “Amazon Washington Post” has been highlighted by Hemming and the rapid response team on multiple occasions, for example, for knocking down misleading statements about Trump’s policies made by lawmakers like House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senator Kamala Harris, also a California Democrat.
“What makes it so audacious and confusing is that no president has been so outspoken — and outrageous — about impeaching mainstream news outlets,” said David Axelrod, a former top adviser to President Barack Obama, who is also a paid CNN analyst. “If these outlets are ‘fake,’ then why should we believe that their positive reporting about the president and the administration is real? It’s a tacit acknowledgment that, despite the president’s calculated and persistent assaults, these news sources are very credible.”
Also undercutting Trump’s constant assaults, Axelrod noted, is how Trump frequently participates in interviews with reporters representing the very news organization he rails against.
Others warned that to take Trump literally is to misunderstand the president. “Understanding Trump means you have to have a healthy dose of humor and skepticism about the spoken word,” said Ari Fleischer, a former press secretary to President George W. Bush.
Of the White House’s efforts to promote stories from the same organizations the president discredits, Fleischer pointed to a moment last March, when former White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters that the monthly jobs numbers produced by the labor department that Trump had previously discredited “may have been phony in the past, but it’s very real now.”
“How do you square it?” asked Fleischer. “You square it with a smile.”
A member of the Irish parliament blamed bad luck caused by angry fairies for dips in a road that were repaired and then reappeared.
Danny Healy-Rae, an independent MP, said the N22 road — which runs from from Killarney in County Kerry to Cork — passes through an area that’s rich in fairy folklore. Dips in the road have been repaired but the problems reappeared.
He told the Irish Times: “There are numerous fairy forts in that area. I know that they are linked. Anyone that tampered with them back over the years paid a high price and had bad luck.”
Asked by the paper if he believed in fairies, Healy-Rae said he subscribed to the local belief that “there was something in these places you shouldn’t touch.”
Healy-Rae, the owner of a plant hire company, said: “I have a machine standing in the yard right now. And if someone told me to go out and knock a fairy fort or touch it, I would starve first.”
In Irish folklore, it is believed that disturbing areas with strong connections to fairies can bring bad luck.
Healy-Rae first raised the issue of fairies at a meeting of Kerry County Council in 2007 after a dip developed in the N22. In a formal motion on the cause of the dip, Healy-Rae  a local councillor at the time, asked: “Is it fairies at work?”
The council’s road department said the dip was due to an “underlying subsoil/geotechnical problem.”
The U.K.’s most senior judge said the British government must provide more guidance on how British law will be developed and the role of the European Court of Justice (ECJ) after Brexit.
The British parliament must be “very clear” in informing judges about how to take into account decisions from the EU’s highest court after the U.K. leaves the bloc, Lord David Edmond Neuberger, who is president of the U.K.’s Supreme Court, told the BBC on Tuesday.
“If [the British government] doesn’t express clearly what the judges should do about decisions of the ECJ after Brexit, or indeed any other topic after Brexit, then the judges will simply have to do their best,” said Lord Neuberger.
Lord Neuberger added the British judiciary would spell out “in a statute” how judges should approach the issue and warned that “to blame the judges for making the law when parliament has failed to do so would be unfair.”
The role of the ECJ — an institution hated by ardent Brexiteers — has become a contentious issue in Brexit negotiations. U.K. legislation is currently subject to ECJ rulings.
British Prime Minister Theresa May and her government insist that the EU’s highest court should have no jurisdiction over the U.K. after it has divorced from the bloc. But European lawmakers strongly disagree, claiming Britain would continue to be bound by ECJ rulings after Brexit. The U.K. government has conceded Britain could be subject to the court’s rulings for some time during a transition period.
Lord Neuberger insisted the British judiciary will follow the letter of the law in either case.
“If the U.K. parliament says we should take into account decisions of the ECJ then we will do so,” Lord Neuberger said. “If it says we shouldn’t then we won’t. Basically, we will do what the statute says.”
Lord Neuberger, who has served as the president of the British Supreme Court since 2012, will step down next month.
According to Le Monde, French President Emmanuel Macron is preparing for an intensive political period when parliament reconvenes after summer, in particular on social and budgetary policies. In Macron’s first 100 days in office, parliament has voted on three laws and pushed through several reforms — an unprecedented track record in French politics. But, Le Monde writes, Macron wants his MPs to be more upfront with the media about progress made. “You should be proud of the record that you have to defend,” Macron said.
Le Figaro had a front page story on the hurdles faced by Brits trying to obtain dual nationality to make sure they can stay in the EU after Brexit. As it turns out, applying for a second citizenship is not that easy — and in fact not legally possible in nine out of 28 member states.


The German state of Lower Saxony will elect a new parliament on October 15, three weeks after the federal election in Germany, Die Welt and FAZ reported. The government crisis started when a Green MP decided to switch parties and join the conservative CDU, causing the government to lose its narrow majority. In the meantime, state premier Stephan Weil has come under intense scrutiny for his dealings with Volkswagen. The CDU has called for tighter controls on the carmaker, including regulation of supervisory board seats, German papers reported. And the Free Democrats (FDP), also vying for a chance to lead the regional government in October, said Lower Saxony should give up its stakes in Volkswagen, according to a Zeit report.
FAZ also wrote that Porsche is investigating whether diesel engines in a new car type could be replaced, possibly drawing on lessons taken from the ongoing diesel emissions scandal.


The egg pollution scandal has prompted new investigations into chicken meat, AD reported. Food authority NVWA is investigating whether the chemical fipronil can also be found in other products after it learned that the cleaning company using the prohibited insecticide also worked for a number of meat companies. The poultry industry claims there are no traces of fipronil to be found in meat.
FD wrote about the French coastal town of Calais, where people are bracing themselves for a new migration crisis. Ten months after the notorious refugee camp, the so-called “Jungle,” was cleared, new ones are on the brink of being built. Some 1,000 migrants from Africa, Afghanistan and Iraq are sleeping rough in and around the city.

The Guardian led with a report on a U.S. government appeal to officials to use the term “weather extremes” instead of “climate change.” The department of agriculture’s natural resources conservation service sent a list of terms that should be avoided by administration staff members, according to the report. “Climate change” is in the “avoid” category. Instead of “climate change adaption,” staff have been told to use “resilience to weather extremes.”
The Times reported that members of government are worried over Home Office plans to scrap landing cards for millions of visitors from outside Europe arriving at airports and ports in the U.K. — a move aimed at speeding up passport controls. The government warned Monday night that the plan, set to take effect October 1, could undermine border security. Without landing cards, non-EU passengers will no longer have to reveal where they are staying in Britain, or for how long.


LISBON — After the best part of a decade of recession and stagnation, Portugal finally looked to be getting back on its feet. Then it all went wrong.
In June, just one day after the country had been freed from eight years of EU-imposed austerity measures, forest fires swept through the country, killing 64 people.
“The Portuguese people have been shaken by the greatest catastrophe of recent decades,” Prime Minister António Costa told parliament in his State of the Nation speech. “In less than 24 hours we passed from relief to turmoil, from satisfaction to consternation.”
The fires weren’t the only crisis that Costa’s government had to deal with over the summer as the mood turned somber in a country that had been on a roll after being crowned European football champions for the first time last summer, had crooned its way to victory in the Eurovision Song Contest, and got its man placed at the head of the United Nations.
Two weeks after the fires, the nation’s self-confidence suffered another blow when thieves broke into a military base northeast of Lisbon.
Their haul reportedly included 44 rocket-propelled anti-tank weapons, 150 hand grenades, 264 blocks of plastic explosives, dozens of detonators and hundreds of rounds of ammunition.
As rumors circulated that the weapons were destined for international terrorists or organized crime gangs, the heist was viewed as a national humiliation that undermined the trust of NATO allies.
“This calls into question the prestige of Portugal, the prestige of the armed forces, the authority of the state and the security of the Portuguese people,” Marcelo Rebel de Sousa, Portugal’s figurehead president, said after the theft at the base at Tancos.
“I’m demanding a full and complete investigation,” he said. “This has to be done no matter who it hurts, and nobody is immune.”
Costa faced demands for cabinet resignations as his Socialist (PS) government and the center-right opposition traded accusations over who was to blame for defense cuts that left the army with unguarded perimeter fences and broken surveillance systems; greed-driven forestry regimes that made the countryside flammable; chaotic civil defense planning; and investments in dysfunctional communication systems that hindered warnings as walls of flame roared toward defenseless villages and crowded highways.
The prime minister himself was lambasted for vacationing in Spain’s Balearic Islands as security concerns and political tensions rose amid the fallout from the arms heist.
“When the going gets tough, this government disappears,” opposition leader Pedro Passos Coelho told supporters of his center-right Social Democratic Party (PSD). “There’s a lack of leadership and a lack of trust.”
Costa resisted calls to fire his interior and defense ministers, but then faced a further blow when three junior ministers resigned as the state prosecutors’ office was poised to formally name them in an investigation into all-expenses-paid trips to last year’s European football championship in France, allegedly offered by Galp Energeia, a power company.
Ministers acknowledge the government is facing its most difficult time since coming to power in November 2015.
Still, the Socialists have hit back, claiming that problems behind the fires and the robbery lie with the austerity-driven policies of the previous government led by Passos Coelho. The center-right has also been embarrassed by reports that three of its elected officials accepted a junket paid for by Chinese tech company Huawei.
So far, the gloom appears to have done little to hurt the government’s popularity.
Costa remains by far the most popular party leader. He enjoys a 48.9 percent approval rating, according to a poll published Saturday in the weekly Expresso newspaper. With a drop of just 0.6 points over the past two months, he’s way ahead of Passos Coelho on 39.2 percent.
The PS has even increased its lead. Saturday’s poll had the party at 40.8 percent, up 0.4 percent on July. The PSD dropped back to 28.1 percent.
Nor is there any sign that voters disaffected by the summer crises are turning to the two far-left parties that shore up Costa’s minority government.
The Portuguese Communist Party (PCP) is on 7.6 percent and the Left Bloc (BE) on 8.4 percent. Both have been steadily losing support since the October 2015 general election that brought Costa to power.
However, analysts say the summer events could still take their toll.
“So far we haven’t seen any really substantial impact on the polls, but this could mark a turning point over the longer term,” said André Azevedo Alves, a political expert at Lisbon’s Catholic University of Portugal and St. Mary’s University, London.
“The tragic scale of the fires and the manner of the robbery at Tancos reflects on the institutions of state and could have a corrosive effect,” he said. “Up until now everything appeared to be going well under this government, we’d been exceeding expectations, now things are going worse than expected.”
Costa now faces two crucial mid-term tests: Nationwide municipal elections scheduled for October 1 and the opening on August 21 of negotiations with his far-left partners on next year’s state budget.
The leftists are demanding concessions. After two years of waving through budget bills that have won EU plaudits and brought the deficit down to its lowest level since democracy was restored in 1974, they’re demanding a faster roll back of austerity.
Left Bloc leader Catarina Martins has been addressing party rallies around the country, cranking up pressure over the budget. Her demands range from tax breaks for the low earners to lowering the retirement age and more money for civil servants, pensions and public services.
“We have a country where a mother who works full time and earns the minimum wage lives in poverty because the wage is so low that she cannot support herself and her child,” Martins told a rally Thursday in Monte Gordo, a popular vacation resort in the southern Algarve region. “Nobody should be left behind.”
The very public demands of both far-left parties will make it harder to strike a deal. “It’s going to be more complicated for Costa this time. The PCP and the Bloc won’t want to lose face, but somebody is going to have to back down,” said Azevedo Alves. “There are ways out of this, but it will be more of a challenge than in previous years.”
In the rosier economic climate, unions are also demanding more.
Workers at the Autoeuropa car plant — the country’s third biggest exporter — are threatening a strike to interrupt production of Volkswagen’s new T-ROC model. They voted to reject a deal on wages and working time which, the company said, included a 16 percent pay rise for some workers.
Venezuela is another source of tension between the government and its hard-left backers.
The Portuguese Communists on Thursday issued a statement denouncing protests against Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro as “destabilizing, terrorist and putschist.”
The PCP criticized Costa’s government for signing up to the European Union position not recognizing the violence-marred elections that Maduro organized to boost his powers.
Despite the strains, however, neither the PCP nor the Left Bloc have much interest in breaking up the governing partnership, which is popularly nicknamed the geringonça, or contraption.
If they rock the boat too much, they risk being shunted away from power in new elections, given that polls show the PS within reach of an absolute majority, and voters would likely penalize any party that provokes a crisis by pulling out of the governing deal.
That strengthens Costa’s hand in the budget talks.
The local elections will choose mayors and councillors for the country’s 308 municipalities and over 3,000 smaller parish councils. Races are often dominated by local issues and personalities, but the vote will be a barometer of national support for the parties and their leaders.
Costa is hoping the Socialists will increase their current leadership of 150 municipalities, and most of all they want to hang on to Lisbon, where he served as a popular mayor before stepping down in 2015 to run for the premiership.
Fernando Medina, Costa’s successor as mayor, has been riding on a tourism boom, investing in a spate of urban embellishment projects to give the capital a facelift. The party’s national ratings have also been boosted by strong economic data.
Latest Eurostat numbers released last week showed Portugal’s unemployment rate has fallen below the eurozone average for the first time since the crisis; growth, which is predicted at over 2.5 percent this year, will be the “best this century,” according to Costa; and 2017 is on course to be the fifth consecutive record-breaking year for tourist numbers.
The PSD’s challenge hasn’t started well. It’s challenger in the Lisbon mayoral race, Teresa Leal Coelho, made a gaffe-plagued opening to her campaign — confusing Passos Coelho with a previous party leader; making promises to abolish taxes that are beyond the mayor’s remit; and releasing campaign posters apparently missing their slogans.
The party has also suffered a high-profile spat over Passos Coelho’s refusal to disown a candidate running in the commuter town of Loures who spouted pejorative remarks about the local Roma community.
Rivals within the PSD have been sharpening their knives for Passos Coelho ever since he lost the premiership in 2015. A poor showing in October could see the former prime minister ousted.
Despite his difficult summer, Costa may have less to fear from the local elections than his opponents.
The British public is losing confidence in Prime Minister Theresa May’s ability to successfully negotiate a Brexit deal on a month-by-month basis, according to a poll published Monday.
The ORB poll, which surveyed 2,000 people across Britain, found that 61 percent disapprove of the way the British government is handling the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU, up 5 points from last month, when 56 percent disapproved, and 15 points more than in June, when the disapproval rate was at 46 percent.
In Monday’s poll, only 35 percent of those surveyed believed May’s promise that she will get the “right deal” for Britain.
Respondents were split about whether they thought Britain would be better off after Brexit, with 40 percent saying they will be, and 37 percent saying they won’t be. The rest didn’t know.
The British government has been under fire for its performance in the Brexit negotiations, which began in earnest last month. The EU’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier criticized the U.K.’s lack of clear positions on many of the negotiating points, including what the U.K. will owe the EU — the so-called Brexit bill.
German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen dismissed claims that the government was pandering to U.S. President Donald Trump by agreeing to raise defense spending to 2 percent of GDP, local media reported Monday.
Martin Schulz, the head of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and Angela Merkel’s challenger for the German chancellorship, and Thomas Oppermann, the leader of the SPD’s parliamentary group, wrote an op-ed in Funke Mediengruppe newspapers Sunday in which they rejected the 2 percent of GDP defense-spending target backed by NATO members.
But Von der Leyen said increased defense spending was necessary for Europe’s security and to help Berlin keep its word.
“Germany keeps its promise,” the defense minister said, adding that its European neighbors would expect just that.
Von der Leyen said the SPD’s assertions were part of a “totally messed up election campaign” and blindsided German soldiers and Germany’s allies.
On Sunday, the SPD chiefs accused Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) of pandering to Trump, who has frequently blasted NATO countries that don’t meet the 2 percent spending target.
“We say a clear no to the 2 percent target of Trump,” and to the CDU and its Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union, wrote Schulz and Oppermann. They said Merkel and the conservatives had responded to Trump’s “provocations” on defense spending “with an ‘OK, then there’s more money from us,’ as if we had nothing better to do with our money.”
Von der Leyen said Germany currently contributes 1.26 percent of its GDP to defense, and she wants to reach the 2 percent target by 2024. But Schulz said that would require almost doubling the current spending level of €37 billion, making Germany the largest military force in Europe.
The defense minister said if the SPD opposes increased funding for the armed forces, they would also be opposing the modernization of the military and increases in personnel and resources.
Schulz and Oppermann criticized Von der Leyen, saying she was responsible for equipment problems and accusing her of lacking leadership. They said military spending increases should be matched with increased funds for diplomacy, crisis prevention and humanitarian initiatives, but warned the world wouldn’t want Germany to be the largest military power in Europe “because of our past.”
The SPD trails the CDU by double-digits in the polls, with the election on September 24.
Brigitte Macron, the wife of the French President Emmanuel Macron, should not be given the official status of first lady, according to over 190,000 people who signed an online petition.
France currently doesn’t have an official first lady. During his election campaign, Macron said he would create the position for his wife and pledged it would not be paid for with public funds, but the petition claims it will cost the French taxpayer money.
A decision on whether to introduce a first lady to France should be decided by referendum and “not by a single man,” wrote the petition’s creator Thierry Paul Valette, an artist and founder of the National Equality Movement, which campaigns against corruption and discrimination.
“There is no reason for the wife of the head of state to get paid through public funds,” Valette wrote. “Brigitte Macron currently has a team of two or three aides, as well as two secretaries and two security agents. That’s enough.”
The petition was set up two weeks ago and by Monday was close to reaching its goal of 200,000 signatures.
France’s parliament last month backed reforms aimed at restoring trust in politicians, including measures such as banning MPs from hiring relatives.
The fallout from the Dieselgate scandal continues to dominate German newspapers’ front pages. Die Welt led with the news the premier of Germany’s Lower Saxony region, Stephan Weil, denied allegations his close relationship with Volkswagen led him to soften a speech critical of the carmaker at VW’s request. While Weil rejected the report, FAZ wrote the case has effectively triggered campaigning in the region for the September 24 federal election. The Greens, who supported Weil’s election as premier in 2013, said the cozy relationship between politicians and the car industry have damaged Germany’s reputation.
FAZ also reported on deportations of refugees from Germany to Greece. A number of asylum seekers will be sent back under Dublin rules, which state people arriving in Europe have to claim asylum in the country in which they arrive.


The Guardian’s front page featured a report on Google apologizing for a memo written by one of its employees, who argued the reason the tech giant has more male than female engineers is because men are better suited for the job. Google said the manifesto did not represent the company’s views. The paper also featured a story on an “IVF postcode lottery,” citing Fertility Network U.K. figures, which indicated areas of England have restricted or halted IVF treatment this year for women struggling to conceive, and others are considering taking similar steps to cut costs.
The Times on its front page reported on the trial of convicted terrorists Tahir Aziz, Naweed Ali, Mohibur Rahman and Khobaib Hussain, who shared scores of extremist videos hosted by YouTube that featured Islamist propaganda. The revelations came amidst increasing pressure on technology companies over the accessibility of extremist content. The men were jailed for life last week.
The paper also featured a report on record levels of violence and abuse against patients at British mental health trusts. The incidents were reported last year, prompting accusations of “endemic” use of force in the National Health Service. More than 5,000 serious incidents were investigated, including hundreds of suicides, dozens of killings and more than 2,000 cases of self-harm.

Le Figaro’s front page focused on President Emmanuel Macron’s leadership style. Macron manages his cabinet as if it were a company, the paper noted, requiring total availability from his ministers and messaging them about policies in the middle of the night. The paper’s other front page story focuses on the rising euro, which has gained nearly 10 cents against the dollar in three months. That has weakened less competitive economies in Europe such as France, the paper claimed.
Libération on its front page features a story on the Young Socialist Movement’s loss of trust in the Socialist Party (PS). If there was an internal vote, about “40 percent of its young members would leave the PS,” the paper claimed, citing internal documents. The party lacks a strategy after recent electoral defeats in the presidential and legislative elections, and young socialists aren’t involved in rebuilding it, according to the report.


El Mundo’s top story focuses on the money-making Podemos. The left-wing party made €11.6 million profit in 2016, despite contesting national and regional elections. Podemos’ budget surplus was just €2.2 million in 2015. Compared to established parties — the conservative Popular Party, the social-democratic Socialist Party, and the liberal Ciudadanos — Podemos made the most bank.
El Pais reported the Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party will request on August 16 a parliamentary investigation committee look into reforming the country’s constitution when the Catalan parliament resumes. The debate starts just two months before a Catalan independence referendum on October 1. The committee will be tasked with considering reforms of the country’s current territorial model.


BUDAPEST — For a fledging political movement with its headquarters in a basement, Hungary’s Momentum has already achieved a degree of success by halting an Olympic bid. The next target is Viktor Orbán.
The Hungarian prime minister’s grip on power remains firm ahead of an election set for April 2018. Among voters who say they’ve made up their mind already, his Fidesz party regularly tops 50 percent in the polls, around 30 points clear of the far-right Jobbik and even further ahead of the Socialist Party.
But the much smaller Momentum thinks it has identified a weakness in the Hungarian leadership: its love of sport. “Hungary spends more on professional sport than on higher education,” said Momentum’s leader, 28-year-old András Fekete-Győr.
Momentum made news in early 2017 when it attempted to force a referendum on Budapest’s bid to host the 2024 Summer Olympics. It collected around 266,000 signatures, more than double the number required to trigger a city-wide vote on the plan, by arguing that Hungary wasn’t rich enough to afford the games.
The government’s response was swift. Orbán pulled the bid, not wanting to risk a repeat of 2014 when a planned tax on internet use led to mass street protests and ended with the only major U-turn of his premiership.
Even now, Orbán acts as though Momentum’s campaign never happened, telling party colleagues in July: “There is not a big world event that Budapest could not host.”
That was a boast with some justification from sports fan Orbán: last month’s World Aquatics Championships was held in Hungary.
The question now is whether Momentum has any momentum.
In local media interviews in the aftermath of the anti-Olympics campaign, Fekete-Győr said anything was possible in 2018. He had a more low-key message when speaking to POLITICO in late July, saying “this party was built for the long term.”
He said the real goal of Momentum’s 1,100 members — all of them subject to background checks by an “HR officer” — is not winning a few seats in the 2018 election, but a bigger transformation of Hungary into a “modern, digital country … in the eurozone, at the core of Europe.”
Fekete-Győr said he was happy to take his time and accept only the truly committed to the cause. He’s targeting the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian expats in Western Europe, and hoping his compatriots can be persuaded to back a non-traditional party. Momentum believes 80 percent of Hungarians living abroad would return home given the right conditions, without saying how it got to that figure.
Speaking to POLITICO in the party’s Budapest headquarters — a dingy basement — surrounded by flagons of cheap wine, second-hand furniture and a foosball table, it’s hard to imagine Fekete-Győr as the leader of the resistance against a leader as powerful as Orbán.
Yet Orbán himself was an upstart who became one of the Fidesz party’s founders in 1988, at the age of 25. Two years later Fidesz entered parliament with around 5 percent of seats. But by 1998, Orbán was prime minister at the age of 35.
There are striking similarities between Fekete-Győr and Orbán.
“We are patriots,” said Fekete-Győr, who is also sharp, multilingual and photogenic. Both trained as lawyers but quickly turned to politics. And like Orbán in his early days in politics, Fekete-Győr has teamed up with liberals while not fully subscribing to their ideals.
Fekete-Győr seems to have other influences. He was clearly trying to show off his inner Emmanuel Macron in his most significant speech, delivered May 1 at a rally in Budapest.
“The time has come for those from Kazincbarcika, from Budapest, and from London, the right- and the left-leaning, the Christian and the atheist, the poor and the rich, the young and the old, to recognize our shared national fate, because we have a task. Let’s set aside our animosities, because we’re all patriots, because we’re all valuable constituents of Hungarian nationality, and our task is no less than this: building an entrepreneurial, cohesive and modern nation in the Europe of the 21st century,” Fekete-Győr said.
Aside from tone, the main difference between Orbán and Fekete-Győr is around 48 percent of support at the polls: Momentum typically polls at 1 to 2 percent nationally and is more popular in the capital than elsewhere in the country. A July poll by the Republikon Institute showed that in Budapest, Momentum enjoys the support of 5 percent of residents, putting it in fifth place.
It’s not much but the Hungarian authorities clearly see Momentum as a threat, with anti-Momentum articles appearing regularly in the government-controlled press.
Critics say that Momentum is politically naive. Eva S. Balogh, a prolific blogger who opposes Orbán’s government, said that aside from the anti-Olympics campaign, Momentum offers only “banal clichés” and “hasn’t got a clue about politics.”
It’s also alienated fellow opponents of the Orbán government by rejecting potential alliances with Hungary’s liberal and left-wing opposition parties.
“When András Fekete-Győr says to the [Swiss newspaper] Neue Zürcher Zeitung that he supports ‘both gay marriage and border control’ [the border fence erected by Orbán to keep refugees out], he positions his party within the complex status quo — but with a ‘new,’ streamlined ‘hipster patriot’ foundation,” left-wing philosopher and commentator Gáspár Miklós Tamás wrote in a recent critique of the party.
István Hegedűs, a former Fidesz MP who left the party in frustration at its populist turn, was more optimistic. He said Momentum is “a very promising pro-European party” but reckoned an electoral breakthrough next year was unlikely given the group’s refusal to cooperate with other parties.
“Momentum might consider 2022 to be the right timing for grasping power — unfortunately, the country might not have so much time to preserve the rest of democracy and the rule of law under a radicalizing illiberal, populist Orbán regime,” Hegedűs said.
Momentum’s membership contains a large number of young professionals and students, and its focus on problems affecting young, mobile millennials makes it difficult to appeal to other Hungarians, especially older voters in rural areas.
But in one area, its messaging had more of an everyman appeal. Instead of focusing on the government’s treatment of the George Soros-funded Central European University or foreign-funded NGOs — issues far removed from the daily life of most Hungarians — Momentum used the Olympic bid as a way to talk about corruption and economic challenges.
Now it must convince Hungarians to vote for it.
Many of the party’s core supporters live outside Hungary: and it’s much harder to vote abroad. Expats who don’t live in a country that borders Hungary must go to an embassy to vote — which drastically reduces turnout. Only about 5,000 out of over 200,000 Hungarians living in the U.K. during the 2014 election registered to vote at the London embassy, for example.
“It’s easier to vote as a dual citizen who has never lived in Hungary than as a Hungarian living abroad,” said Tamas Csillag, the head of the London branch of Momentum.
Momentum’s solution? A car-pooling app they are creating for the 2018 election.
Lili Bayer contributed reporting.
The definition of trust (or perhaps madness) in the EU? Letting a Brit have the keys to the headquarters of the European Commission while (almost) everyone else is on vacation.
That’s what happened last week when Julian King — who, barring a massive Brexit change of heart, will be the last ever European commissioner from the U.K. — was on duty while his colleagues topped up their tans and caught up on summer reading. His boss, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, wasn’t on holiday for all of that time — he left late last week, perhaps having given King the first shift to keep an eye on him.
The Brit, who is in charge of the security union portfolio, had some work to do. He signed off on some €9 million in new money for the United Nations’ refugee agency and on a new method of financing the European Youth Orchestra, among other things.
But most importantly, he was in the office.
Juncker made it clear he wants the Commission to be open for business throughout the summer in a note sent to all staff, according to people who received the memo.
He set up a summer rota of duty commissioners who must be at work. King got the first week-long shift, with Malta’s Karmenu Vella taking over at the weekend, followed by Romania’s Corina Creţu and then Cyprus’ Christos Stylianides who’ll be in charge from August 19 to 27, according to a Commission spokesperson, after which Juncker will be back.
The president gave an interview to POLITICO in a rather empty Berlaymont HQ last week, before heading to Austria on holiday.
His message then was that the Commission is ready to act “within days” if anything happens.
It’s become a new mantra, used when discussing retaliation against U.S. sanctions on Russia, the legality of Venezuela’s recent election or Poland wielding the ax both against protected trees and the rule of law.
The summer rota is part of Juncker’s ambition of leading a “political Commission” and a way of showing other EU institutions, national capitals and even the citizens of Europe, that politics can’t always wait until September.
The European Parliament hasn’t taken the same approach, with President Antonio Tajani sending a letter to Juncker and other EU leaders telling them not to bother getting in touch.
Tajani told “Dear Jean-Claude” that the Parliament was taking its summer break and no work should be sent over before early September.
“I would be grateful if you could suspend, from the date of reception of this letter, the transmission of any notification or request to the budgetary authority [that’s the Parliament],” Tajani wrote in a letter dated July 13 — although he is keeping himself busy and did pop up last Tuesday, sending angry letters about Venezuela, which POLITICO obtained, to the Council and Commission.
According to EU diplomats, efforts to coordinate the bloc’s position on Venezuela were already underway by Tuesday, and the message was delivered Wednesday.
The home-alone commissioner isn’t completely on their own. At 9:45 a.m. every weekday, a skeleton staff meets in the Berlaymont, according to participants. Among them are officials from the Cabinets of both the president and that week’s duty commissioner, as well as from the secretariat-general and the spokespersons’ service.
At 10:30 a.m. all last week, a smaller group of people more or less directly reporting to Juncker met with the president to discuss the important matters of the day. They were given Juncker’s cell phone number for while he’s away.
The College of Commissioners reconvenes at the end of August for a retreat, which could easily be turned into a “fully-fledged” meeting should the need arise, a senior Commission official said.
To calm Italy’s fears on migration, Juncker has set up a special telephone hotline and email address that alerts three senior Commission officials, “to ensure a constant chain of communication between Italy and the European Commission,” Juncker wrote to Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni in July.
The Commission’s midday press briefing also carries on throughout the summer, although it’s been downgraded to a much smaller room.
Of course, some people can’t completely disconnect even when they are supposed to be on holiday. Commissioner Věra Jourová, who oversees consumer protection, has been tweeting away to make sure EU citizens are aware of what the Commission does for them.
“Summer is coming, and the EU is always on your side,” she said in a video, whether it’s about a late flight (you’ve got rights), a lost passport or diplomatic incident (“you have the right to consular protection”) or suntan lotion (“safe” if sold on EU soil).
The Czech commissioner spoke in English, perhaps to make sure the Brits realize what they’re leaving behind.
PARIS — France will always remain open to people fleeing “war and persecution” but will draw the line at migrants entering the country for “economic reasons,” French Interior Minister Gérard Collomb said in an interview with Journal du Dimanche published Sunday.
Collomb said that a new immigration law will ensure refugees seeking asylum see their request addressed within six months, while also strengthening the government’s ability to fight “illegal” immigration.
The interior minister also vowed to step up the fight against human traffickers who illegally transport migrants across the Mediterranean, but admitted that French President Emmanuel Macron’s proposal to set up “hot spots” in Libya is unlikely to see the light of day anytime soon.
Macron has suggested France set up “hot spots” in the war-torn North African country in order to accelerate the process of sorting out who might be entitled to refugee status.
“That type of initiative cannot be currently considered in Libya, due to the country’s situation,” Collomb said. Most foreign policy experts had similarly cautioned that the plan wasn’t credible.
Collomb pledged that the government would try to “reconcile efficiency with generosity” in dealing with asylum requests.
France will create 3,500 new accommodation spaces for asylum seekers next year and 4,000 in 2019, taking the country’s global capacity to 88,000 — double what it was in 2012.
The French government has long tried to soothe the concerns of human rights organization by pledging to build a better system to treat asylum requests, while also reassuring voters that it is serious about wanting to clamp down on illegal immigration.
“Our current standards are not as high as what they should be in France,” Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said as he outlined the government’s plans last month.
Collomb didn’t specify in his interview with JDD how the government intended to fight illegal immigration, save for a renewed pledge to cooperate with foreign governments to crack down on traffickers.
The interior minister also said that about 350 migrants remained in the makeshift camp known as the “jungle” in Calais, in the north of France, where thousands of migrants trying to reach the U.K. lived in precarious conditions until the camp was officially dismantled in October last year.
The government intends to build a new refugee center that can accommodate up to 300 people, far from Calais and Dunkirk — another migrant hub — in order to relieve the pressure on both towns’ local councils, Collomb said.
The leader of the German Free Democrats Christian Lindner defended his foreign policy in an interview with Bild am Sonntag, after he caused an uproar by calling for the Russian annexation of Crimea to be considered a “permanent provisional solution.”
The conflict around the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in March 2014, should be “encapsulated” so that progress can be made on other issues, Lindner — whose party is expected to reenter parliament after September’s election and become a possible coalition partner for Angela Merkel — told German media group Funke on Saturday.
He also called for the European Union to not make the lifting of sanctions — imposed on Russia in response to the annexation — conditional on fulfilling its responsibilities in the Minsk agreement and to reward Moscow for “positive intermediary steps.”
“To be honest, I verbalized what many others are thinking and what has already quietly been part of our Realpolitik for a long time,” Lindner said.
“And at least, because of this commotion, we’re now talking about Crimea again, after being silent for too long,” he added.
According to Lindner, the party has not changed its critical position toward Moscow. “Still, we can and must take lessons from history about how these conflicts can be frozen and then resolved step by step.”
Looking ahead to Germany’s federal election in September, Lindner said it was clear “the race for the top seat is over, Angela Merkel will stay as chancellor.”
According to the latest polls, Merkel’s CDU/CSU union is holding steady at 38 percent while the SPD trails behind with 23 percent.
“The exciting outcome to watch will be for third place,” he added. “That’s where we’ll know what message the country is sending with this election.”
Germany’s Linke is the third-strongest party with 10 percent of the vote, closely followed by the Greens, right-wing Alternative für Deutschland, and the Free Democrats with 8 percent each.
By the end of last week, even President Donald Trump had apparently had enough of the self-inflicted chaos swirling around his White House. And the person he turned to to fix it — instinctively, it seems — was a retired Marine Corps general.
John Kelly, out of uniform for just a year after retiring as head of U.S. Southern Command, had been running the Department of Homeland Security since January. He’s a straight-talking and sometimes blunt man whose accent suggests his working-class Boston roots, and he enjoys a salty joke. Sources say Trump was already in the habit of asking him for advice on how to make the White House run more smoothly.
Not since the early days of the Ford administration has a general served as White House chief of staff — and arguably not since the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a retired general, have senior military officers wielded such influence at the top levels of an administration. Kelly forms a nexus of power with three other generals: Secretary of Defense James Mattis, a retired Marine general; Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a Marine general; and national security adviser H.R. McMaster, still a uniformed lieutenant general in the Army — and a replacement for retired Lt. General Michael Flynn, who was fired after less than a month in the job.
As the administration first took shape, the heavy military make-up of the administration’s national security and foreign affairs team — of its senior leadership, only Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is a civilian — raised serious questions about the militarization of U.S. foreign policy. These concerns were exacerbated in February when Trump bragged his budget contained “one of the largest defense-spending increases in history,” and later when he handed a series of important new wartime authorities to the Pentagon, while proposing to slash the State Department budget by 30 percent.
But during the first seven months of this administration, the generals have emerged as a fairly coherent bloc of foreign-policy thinkers whose views have put at least the most extreme fears of critics to rest. Through both experience and military education, the generals are pragmatic realists and internationalists, committed to the United States’ leadership role in the world. Internally, they’ve been a strong counterweight to the nationalist/populist faction in the White House led by chief strategist Steve Bannon, which was behind controversial Trump policies like the initial immigration ban, the rejection of the Paris climate change accords, and potential steel tariffs that could yet spark a global trade war.
Taken as a group, Trump’s generals have tended to see their mission as twofold: The first job is to correct what senior military officers see as the mistakes of the Obama administration, a hesitancy to use force or commit troops that many allies perceived as a retreat from traditional U.S. commitments in the world.
The second job — and the far riskier one — is to mitigate the damage caused by their boss.
An undisciplined and shoot-from-the-lip president, Trump has shown a proclivity for rattling allies with unexpected tweets and bullying phone calls. When he trumpets his “America first” foreign policy, it’s widely interpreted by allies as a fig leaf for isolationism and protectionism. The generals, with Tillerson as something of a junior partner — nicknamed the “axis of adults” by a number of establishment Republicans and conservative commentators — have become the reassurers-in-chief to the outside world. They’ve already persuaded Trump to back away from some of his most controversial foreign policy positions, including labeling NATO “obsolete,” moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, rescinding the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Iran nuclear deal, and reconsidering the venerable “One China” policy.
And they’ve won some internal fights. McMaster, in particular, appears to be locked in battle with the nationalist faction: He has recently cleared out a number of senior national-security staffers associated with his predecessor Mike Flynn or seen as allied to Bannon; he’s fired Rich Higgins, the strategi planning director who wrote a conspiracy-laced memo, as well as Intelligence Directorate head Ezra Cohen-Watnick, a Bannon ally who earlier this year secretly shared intelligence with Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee Representative Devin Nunes. For his troubles, McMaster is now under attack by Bannon’s former website, Breitbart, which is covering his “purge” with blazing headlines—though he appears to be enjoying some protection from the arrival of Kelly. Which suggests that the more interesting internal fight may be the one Kelly is just beginning, trying to both corral a deeply disjointed White House staff and temper Trump’s erratic day-to-day impulses.
What’s at stake, in the minds of the generals, is something considerably larger than winning the internal Game of Thrones. In the back of his airplane returning from a recent trip to Asia, General Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told me that that the international order they were striving to protect was more volatile and unpredictable today than at any moment since World War II. “Today, we’re confronting simultaneous challenges posed by China, North Korea, Russia and Iran, as well as a natural disaster in Sri Lanka,” he said, referring to flooding that had recently displaced hundreds of thousands of people. “So, as I prepare for posture hearings in Congress, that’s a reminder that this is the world as it is, not the world as we might want it to be.”
The world as it is also includes a global Islamist insurgency, U.S. combat operations in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, and growing instability and state failure around the world, from Yemen to South Sudan to Venezuela. The defense of what author Robert Kagan calls “The World America Made” now depends on the success of Trump’s generals in the twin objectives of shaping a more muscular national security posture, and limiting the international blowback from an “America First” foreign policy of naked nationalism and mercantilism — even as their own commander-in-chief projects that face to the world.
* * *
Why generals at all? Donald Trump, a flamboyant billionaire and reality-TV star who received multiple deferments from serving in Vietnam, might initially seem an unlikely boss for a clique of buttoned down military officers. But from his days at the New York Military Academy, Trump seems to have retained an innate respect for the uniform, and above all he likes tough guys. All of his top generals distinguished themselves in multiple combat tours, and Trump especially likes reminding Mattis of a former nickname he would just as soon retire, “Mad Dog.”
For their part, the generals were qualified to step into a Trump administration in a way that few other national-security experts were: Experienced and worldly without being partisan or political, and thus not part of the “Washington swamp” that candidate Trump constantly promised to drain. By training, they innately respect the position of the commander-in-chief and the institution of the presidency, regardless of who holds it. And unlike many of the Republican defense and foreign policy experts in the Republican establishment, they hadn’t put their names on “Never Trump” proclamations during the campaign.
Trump’s closest relationship was with none of his current generals, but with Flynn, a decorated combat veteran who served as the former intelligence chief for Joint Special Operations Command. The brash businessman and the maverick soldier had something in common: Both felt that America had lost the knack of “winning,” either in international trade or in the global fight against Islamist extremists. The two bonded on the campaign trail, and Flynn infamously spoke at the Republican National Convention, leading the crowd in chants of “Lock Her Up” in reference to Hillary Clinton. Flynn was eventually fired as Trump’s national security adviser for his entanglement with Russia, and is now a target of the FBI’s investigation — and his fall from grace presents a cautionary tale of the dangers military officers can face in entering the unfamiliar terrain of hyperpartisan politics, and the whirlpool of controversies constantly swirling around Trump.
Flynn’s replacement was a surprising choice for an ahistorical president who puts a premium on obsequiousness and loyalty in his subordinates: McMaster is a warrior-scholar who distinguished himself in combat, but also wrote a book called “Dereliction of Duty,” a critique of generals who didn’t speak honestly enough to their civilian bosses during the Vietnam War. He had made a career out of independent thought and speaking truth to power.
Mattis, similarly, has a scholarly reputation: a noted intellectual and keen student of history, Mattis sprinkles his conversations with references to Thucydides and the Peloponnesian war, Abraham Lincoln’s struggle to prepare the nation for the end of slavery, and the enduring lessons of the post-World War II Marshall Plan, fashioned by his predecessor George C. Marshall, the last retired general to serve as defense secretary. (Kelly reportedly caught the eye of Team Trump for reasons a little closer to the Trump campaign themes: In testimony, he gave before the Senate Armed Services Committee in 2015, he argued that a porous southern border was a potentially “existential” national security threat.)
Given that the Marine Corps is the smallest of the four major armed services, the Marines that rise to the level of general form an especially tight-knit clique. Kelly and Joint Chiefs Chairman Joe Dunford served under Mattis multiple times in combat in Iraq, close aides say, and the three talk frequently and meet often at national security meetings and retirement ceremonies. It was General Dunford who personally delivered the heartbreaking news to Kelly that his son, 2nd Lt. Robert Kelly, was killed in action in Afghanistan in 2011.
As a group, Trump’s generals are united by bonds of friendship, common experience and wartime sacrifice. By the nature of their military education — and the U.S. military’s constant overseas deployments of the past two decades—they’re also well steeped in international relations, and deeply committed to the global alliance structure that the U.S. military built and maintained after World War II. Their wartime experiences have also made them sensitive to looming threats, whether from Islamist extremists, a hegemonic Iran, and especially a revanchist Russia that has targeted Western democracies as its enemies.
* * *
They also have one more thing in common: Serious worries about the Obama Doctrine. Though in the broad sense, the generals are clearly embracing continuity in America’s relationship to the world, almost to a man they had taken positions in public opposition to aspects of Obama’s second-term foreign policy.
Mattis had been eased out as head of U.S. Central Command because of his harsh rhetoric about Iran at a time when the administration was negotiating an agreement to curtail Tehran’s suspected nuclear weapons program. As head of U.S. Southern Command, Kelly got sideways with the Obama White House for calling attention to the threats posed by a porous southern border. McMaster was publicly critical of Obama’s precooked deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. And Flynn, Trump’s first national security adviser, thought Obama was severely underestimating the threat of Islamic extremism in the Middle East. He believed he was let go early as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency for pushing back on the notion that the threat from Islamist extremism had largely passed with the death of Osama bin Laden.
Senior uniformed leaders privately blame Obama’s decision to prematurely pull all U.S. troops out of Iraq in 2011 for the rise of the Islamic State there, and they felt overly constrained by the White House’s extreme sensitivity to “boots on the ground” in the anti-ISIS campaign. Troop levels have thus been increased in Iraq and Syria under Trump, and the anti-ISIS campaign intensified. The request for additional authorities itself arose out of a widespread belief that Obama’s White House micromanaged military operations by insisting that military commanders constantly ask, “Mother, may I?”
The influence of their beliefs can be seen in Trump’s sometimes arbitrary-seeming foreign policy decisions. In the Obama administration’s eagerness to reach a deal curtailing Iran’s nuclear program, Mattis in particular felt that too little was done to reassure traditional Sunni Arab allies, and push back against Tehran’s support of terrorist proxies throughout the region. Trump thus traveled to Saudi Arabia earlier this year in one of his initial overseas trips, where he rallied the Sunni Arab states and announced a major weapons sale to Riyadh. After recently certifying that Iran was in compliance with the nuclear accord, the Trump administration nevertheless slapped new sanctions on Tehran for its support for terrorists and its meddling throughout the Middle East.
In a recent interview, Mattis referred to this belief that Obama failed to finish the job of destroying Al Qaeda and its offshoots. “I think under the Obama administration, there was a more accelerated campaign against terrorists than perhaps the administration was willing to sustain,” Mattis said in an interview with The Islander, the newspaper of the Mercer Island High School. As for Tehran, Mattis said, “Iran is certainly the most destabilizing influence in the Middle East.”
U.S. military leaders like McMaster have also publicly faulted Obama for setting an artificial deadline for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, and for setting too steep of a glide path for those withdrawals. The Pentagon and McMaster thus support the deployment of roughly 4,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan to halt recent Taliban gains — a policy reportedly opposed by Bannon and his allies in the White House. Trump has yet to weigh in decisively on either side.
“We saw with the precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq, and the subsequent fall of Mosul, what can happen when you withdraw before making your military gains permanent,” McMaster said at a recent conference hosted by the Center for a New American Security.
Finally, U.S. military leaders almost uniformly believed it was a mistake for President Obama to draw a rhetorical red line against the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons, and then fail to enforce it with military action when Assad gassed scores of civilians in 2013 with sarin nerve agent. When Assad crossed that line again last April, the Trump national security team responded with what looked like choreographed diplomacy backed by military muscle. Within days Secretary of Defense Mattis directed a missile strike against the Syrian regime for its use of chemical weapons against civilians, even as Trump held talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago about putting increased pressure on North Korea over planned nuclear tests. The missile attack on the murderous Assad regime was applauded by Democrats and Republicans alike. Having generals running U.S. foreign policy still worried plenty of liberals, but more hawkish mainstream commentators began talking of Trump’s generals and Tillerson as a stabilizing force that had finally brought much-needed discipline and strategic coherence to the administration’s national security and foreign policies.
“The same President Trump who can be gruff and erratic in public tweets is a commander-in-chief who is deferential and attentive when he talks to a star-studded cast of his closest military advisers,” national security reporter Rowan Scarborough wrote at the time in the Washington Times. Chimed in Eric Fehrnstrom, a former Mitt Romney aide, in the Boston Globe: “Thank God for the generals. … President Trump’s senior military appointees are taking a leading role and acting as a restraining influence.”
* * *
Nowhere is the influence of Trump’s “axis of adults” felt more acutely than overseas, where worried allies look for reassurance that “America first” does not mean a U.S. retreat. With the administration approaching the six-month mark in June, for instance, Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson appeared together at a news conference for the very first time — not in the US, but in Australia. The briefing at the annual Australia-United States Ministerial Consultations (AUSMIN) was a chance for a close ally to view Team Trump’s new power dynamic up close, and for American participants and observers to judge how the Trump administration’s “America first” foreign policy was playing overseas.
As partnerships go, the U.S.-Australian alliance is as rock solid as they come – but there are no more easy alliances for the United States. After Mattis, Tillerson and their Australian counterparts gave prepared remarks extolling their joint commitment to the “rules-based international order” — shorthand for a U.S.-backed system predicated on free trade and freedom from intimidation — that uneasiness was driven home by questions from the assembled press. Tillerson, who had made few public appearances, took a long, tough question from an American reporter about how the Trump administration has “tossed aside” free trade and climate change pacts, risking being seen as “America the Selfish,” or “America the Boorish.” “Do the president’s words no longer matter in international relations?” the reporter asked. By the end of the harangue Tillerson’s right hand was wagging in tight circles in an unmistakable gesture of wrap it up already.
“Are you sure you don’t have more?” Tillerson asked the reporter sarcastically, before launching into a defense of presidential policies and pronouncements that would be difficult for even the most seasoned diplomat to defend. Mattis took a stab and was equally unpersuasive. For her part, Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop offered a defense of her guests that has become increasingly common for bewildered allies, one that attempts to sidestep the president’s preferred bully pulpit: We will react to what the administration does, and not what the president Tweets. “I understand Twitter has a maximum of 140 characters,” she said. “So we will deal with the president, with his cabinet, and with this administration on what they do, what they achieve, and what their strategies are.”
Just days earlier in Singapore I had watched as Mattis was similarly cornered at the Shangri-La Dialogue. During a speech to Asian leaders and national security experts, he gave a rousing defense of traditional U.S. leadership, referring to America’s “enduring commitment” to Asian-Pacific allies based on “strategic interests and on the shared values of free peoples and free markets.” He promised that the United States would continue to defend “the rules-based international order” constructed by the United States out of the wreckage of World War II.
The cognitive dissonance of the Trump administration’s messaging was just as confusing to the political leaders and security experts in Singapore as it was to the press scrum in Australia. In the question-and-answer session after Mattis’ speech, a delegate from Singapore wondered why the United States wasn’t more worried that China was aggressively filling the trade vacuum left by its rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. An Australian delegate questioned whether the administration’s rejection of TPP and the Paris Climate Accord, and its bruising treatment of NATO, meant that Trump really wanted to deconstruct the rules-based international order. A Japanese parliamentarian wondered whether her nation’s security alliance with the United States was still based on common values like free trade, environmental protection and human rights.
Mattis, typically, tried to place the current moment into a historic context, pointing out that there has long been a strain of isolationism in the American body politic, and a reluctance to serve as the world’s policeman. But after witnessing the carnage of tens of millions of people in World War II, Mattis noted, the “Greatest Generation” recognized the danger of countries once again retreating back inside their own borders — implying, without saying outright, that it would prevail over Trumpian “us first” nationalism. “Even for all the frustrations that are felt in America right now and the sense that at times we carry an inordinate burden, that sense of engagement with the world is still deeply rooted in the American psyche,” said Mattis. And then, and not for the last time, he paraphrased Britain’s World War II-era leader and statesman Winston Churchill to explain Washington’s wavering leadership. “Bear with us,” he told the Shangri-La Dialogue audience. “Once we’ve exhausted all possible alternatives, the Americans will do the right thing.”
Afterward, on his aircraft flying home from Asia, Dunford told me that the president’s tweets never came up in the private meetings he and Mattis held with allied leaders. “I know there’s been noise about the United States supposedly walking away from our Asian allies. That narrative is real and it’s out there in the media,” he said. “But when you look at the facts, we have a pretty compelling story to tell. We are devoting 60 percent of our joint forces to U.S. Pacific Command, and we’ve overseen a significant increase in the volume of multilateral military exercises in Asia. We’ve deployed the newest and most capable weapons in the U.S. arsenal to the Pacific. So we’re matching our actions to the message that the United States remains committed to the Asia-Pacific.”
The message was meant as reassurance, and from my discussions with nervous Asian allies in Singapore extremely welcome. And yet everyone understands who ultimately calls the shots in the American system. Recently, Trump had gotten into a spat with the new leader of South Korea over who should pay for the deployment of a U.S. antimissile system to that treaty ally, which faces an existential threat from North Korea. Meanwhile, some of Trump’s advisers were pushing a new tariff on steel imports that could spark a global trade war. That reminded me of something else that Mattis had said during the question-and-answer session at the Shangri-La Dialogue.
“As for the rules-based order, obviously we have a new president in Washington, D.C. We’re all aware of that,” Mattis said. “And there are going to be fresh approaches taken.”
* * *
Since it emerged, the flaw in the “axis of adults” narrative is the assumption that Donald Trump himself is willing and able to fundamentally change. If generals like McMaster, Mattis, Dunford and Kelly and the other “adults” among his close advisers could just establish a disciplined decision-making process, the thinking goes, then surely the best arguments will win most of the time.
In reality, despite McMaster’s best efforts to instill a more orderly NSC process, knowledgeable sources say decision-making in the Trump White House still remains a much more fluid and informal affair, with competing factions frequently at odds, decisions discussed by Trump in ad hoc klatches over dinner or lunch, and freelance players like Bannon and son-in-law and top advisor Jared Kushner often circumventing the formal chain-of-authority by being the last person in the room to whisper into Trump’s ear.
The recent drama surrounding the firing or resignation of White House spokesman Sean Spicer and chief of Staff Reince Preibus suggests that John Kelly will face stiff odds in trying to wring order out of the chaos emanating from the Oval Office. His success in getting rid of 11-days-and-your-fired communications director Anthony Scaramucci, and assurances that he will be given authority to act as the gatekeeper to the Oval Office, were a start. In the end, however, the man inside the office will dictate the administration’s management style.
“Donald Trump learned about political infighting on ‘The Apprentice,’ where his management technique was to provoke fights between the different candidates and teams, and then decide who prevails by saying ‘You’re fired!’” Robert Bear, a former Middle East case officer for the CIA, told me. “I don’t see him changing that style in the White House. When was the last time you saw a 70-year-old man change for the better?”
The longer the disorder continues, the bigger the risk to the generals trying to keep the ship steady. The U.S. military remains by far the most respected institution in America, and current and former generals some of the most respected individuals in society, precisely because of a strict nonpartisan tradition and ability to stay above the political scrum. When the administration’s travel ban targeting people from seven Muslim-majority countries was initially unveiled by Steve Bannon and company with little consultation with Cabinet officials, for instance, then-DHS Director Kelly dutifully appeared before the press to insist he was in the loop in formulating the travel ban, when clearly, he was not.
“I think General Kelly took a hit for his commander-in-chief that day, but you can only do that once. The second time, you lose credibility,” former Secretary of Defense William Cohen said in an interview. “The larger point is, whether it’s Kelly, Mattis or McMaster, you can spend a lifetime building credibility, and loose it overnight.”
McMaster edged dangerously close to that line in defending Trump’s inexplicable meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the Oval Office the day after Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, in part because of the bureau’s investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. When news quickly broke in the Washington Post that Trump had shared highly classified, “code word” intelligence with the Russians, Trump sent McMaster out to defend the action to the press. As a clearly uncomfortable McMaster dutifully walked out to the White House lawn to issue a brief statement calling the story “false,” he unexpectedly ran into a gaggle of reporters in the West Wing.
“This is the last place in the world I wanted to be,” McMaster confessed, and no one had reason to doubt it. The next morning Trump essentially undercut McMaster’s defense that the story was false by insisting in a Tweet that he had every right to share highly classified intelligence with the Russians.
Retired Army Lt. Col. John Nagl is a counterinsurgency expert and former president of the Center for a New American Security, and he has known McMaster for years. “I believe H.R. McMaster was given a direct order by Trump to go out and try and defend the indefensible, and his doing so is OK with me because I truly believe H.R. may one day be the person who saves the planet when the proverbial crap hits the fan,” Nagl said in an interview, noting that the incident was nevertheless a blow to McMaster’s hard-won reputation for honesty.
As for Mattis, who has had his own run-ins with the White House over personnel choices and other issues, knowledgeable sources say he is also increasingly frustrated. Mattis was reportedly “appalled” and surprised by the Trump tweet barring transgender persons from serving in uniform, and he continues to receive unsolicited suggestions from the White House. Recently, Steve Bannon tried to get Mattis to consider an idea hatched by the founder of Blackwater Worldwide to install an “American viceroy” in Afghanistan who would run the war through “private military units,” according to a report in the New York Times; Mattis “listened politely,” the story said, but declined to include the idea in his review of Afghanistan policy.
In June, McMaster was finally able to persuade President Trump to publicly reaffirm a U.S. commitment to NATO’s foundational Article V commitment, but not before his failure to do so at a NATO Summit the previous month badly rattled America’s closest democratic allies, even prompting Germany’s Prime Minister Angela Merkel to publicly lament that “the times in which we could completely depend on others are, to a certain extent, over. …” POLITICO recently reported that McMaster is “increasingly a national security adviser out of sync with his mercurial president” on issues ranging from Russia, NATO, the Iran deal, and the Afghanistan strategy.
Before moving into his West Wing office, newly minted chief of staff John Kelly had seen his own relations with Congress grow increasingly testy. Those relationships will now be key to resurrecting Trump’s stalled agenda on Capitol Hill, which includes major tax reform and infrastructure initiatives. In late June, Kelly testified on Capitol Hill that he was “offended” by lawmakers who “often threaten me and my officers” for their stepped-up arrests and deportations of undocumented immigrants. The criticism recalled Kelly’s earlier admonishment that Congress should pass new immigration laws if it didn’t like the way his department was enforcing the current ones, or else just “shut up.” Many lawmakers were not amused.
Meanwhile, the frequent disconnect between Trump’s controversial rhetoric and stances and the “axis of adults” involved in clean-up duty was evident in the ongoing crisis with Qatar, home to the major U.S. airbase involved in the anti-Islamic State campaign. Shortly after Trump visited Saudi Arabia in May — during which he bonded visibly with the Saudi royals and the other monarchs of the Persian Gulf — Riyadh and the other Gulf Cooperation Council members announced a blockade of Qatar over its alleged financing of terrorism. Trump publicly backed the Saudis, working at direct cross purposes with Tillerson, who was engaged in shuttle diplomacy in the Middle East trying to defuse the crisis.
“Tillerson’s shuttle diplomacy to try and solve the Qatar crisis was a reminder that, in terms of conflict management, there is no simple substitute for U.S. diplomacy, but the crisis erupted in large part because during his visit President Trump seemed to provoke Saudi Arabia to take a hard line with Qatar,” said Wolfgang Ischinger, the former German ambassador to the United States, and currently head of the Munich Security Conference. Similarly, European allies were relieved that McMaster and Mattis finally convinced Trump to publicly embrace Article V, he said, but lasting damage was done by Trump’s unwillingness to do so during the NATO Summit.
“Trump’s hesitancy on Article V and earlier talk of NATO being ‘obsolete’ have left a lingering sense of uncertainty and unpredictability about the United States’ commitment to the alliance,” said Ischinger. “Trump’s generals keep telling us to look at what they are doing, and not what the president is saying, but the trans-Atlantic boat has been severely rocked and there is a lingering concern in Europe that more waves and surprises are likely to come.”
* * *
No matter how hard they try, Trump’s generals cannot fully mitigate the lasting damage of an “American first” foreign policy that is often interpreted overseas as much loud boasting backed up with a military stick. Even in normal times, the United States’ superpower military threatens to overshadow its soft-power diplomacy, despite the fact that generals stationed overseas are technically outranked by U.S. ambassadors. Trump’s clear preference for the company of generals and his frequent military tough talk, combined with his administration’s steady marginalization of the State Department, sends an even stronger signal, and one that many allies find alarming.
Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates used to highlight the dangers in that vast dichotomy in funding and influence between the Pentagon and Foggy Bottom by noting that there are more people in military bands than in the entire Foreign Service — giving voice to the widespread unease among senior military leaders about being front and center in U.S. foreign policy. None of Trump’s generals have forgotten that’s exactly how they ended up isolated and stuck inside a broken Iraq, with little help from the State Department or a diplomatic corps that had been largely shut out of the decision-making surrounding the invasion.
While he conducts a yearlong review to rationalize deep cuts in the State Department budget, however, Tillerson has left whole management layers of undersecretaries and assistant secretaries vacant, and the seventh floor of Foggy Bottom where he works is said by insiders to resemble a “ghost town.” The vacancies nearly led the department to cancel the incoming class of Foreign Service officers, knowledgeable sources say, and there is a move by the White House to try and have management of refugee issues taken away from the soft power State Department and given to the hard power Department of Homeland Security.
Nicholas Burns is director of the Future of Diplomacy Project at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, and the former third-ranking official at the State Department. “There is a real fear in the diplomatic community that the goal of the Bannon faction in the White House is to fundamentally weaken the State Department,” he said in an interview. Proposed draconian cuts in the budgets of the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development, the wholesale failure to fill vacancies in the leadership ranks, and efforts to strip the department of key functions, he said, have all severely undercut morale in the Foreign Service. “Mattis, McMaster and Tillerson are all very solid people, but there is not one senior Trump adviser with diplomatic experience, which is a terrible mistake,” Burns said. Aware of the danger of an overly militarized foreign policy, Defense Secretary Mattis has forged a close relationship with Tillerson, walking over to Foggy Bottom from his home on the Navy Annex once a week for breakfast, and speaking by phone two to three times a day with Tillerson. As a commander, Mattis once testified that if Congress was going to cut the budget of the diplomatic corps, then he was going to need to buy more ammunition. Unless Tillerson can somehow reverse the slow-motion strangulation of his State Department, Mattis might want to adjust his ammo budget sooner rather than later.
The problem, in the end, is that even the most thoughtful generals tend to represent just one instrument in a strategic toolbox that draws its strength from the collective capabilities of the U.S. government. As the old saying goes, if all you have is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail. Michele Flournoy is co-founder of the Center for a New American Security, and previously the No. 3 official in the Pentagon, and worries about the lack of a bigger-picture approach. “There is certainly a danger of the White House becoming too disengaged from operations that put American troops in harm’s way,” she says. “Only the president and the White House can develop ‘whole of government’ strategies, coordinate all the tools of U.S. power to include diplomacy, and provide the necessary oversight to achieve successful outcomes. Because whether it’s the war in Afghanistan or the anti-ISIS campaign, none of these issues can be solved on the battlefield alone.”
James Kitfield is senior fellow at the Center for the Study of the Presidency & Congress. He is a former senior correspondent for National Journal and has written about defense, national security and foreign policy issues from Washington, D.C., for more than two decades.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani accused the U.S. of violating the Iran nuclear deal and stressed the need to continue building cooperation with the European Union, while being sworn in for a second term Saturday.
U.S. President Donald Trump signed off last week on a law to add sanctions against Iran, as well as Russia and North Korea. The move comes two years after the Obama administration, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany agreed on the nuclear non-proliferation deal.
EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, who attended Rouhani’s swearing in ceremony in Tehran on Saturday, said the EU wants to make sure the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is fully implemented.
“The recurrent violation of commitments by the U.S. administration and imposing new sanctions against Iran have negative impacts on the Iranian nation’s public opinion and could be detrimental to the process of implementation of the JCPOA,” Rouhani said in a meeting with Mogherini before the ceremony, according to the Iranian news agency Tasnim.
Iran will continue to carry out the agreement as long as others don’t violate it, he said, adding that full implementation requires the parties to facilitate economic, banking and business relations with Iran.
Rouhani praised the progress in Iran-EU relations over the past four years and said there’s room for greater investment in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical sectors.
Mogherini confirmed that Iran has fully complied with the nuclear deal.
Rouhani was elected to a second term in May. More than 130 officials from 85 countries attended his swearing in, Tasnim reported.
BUDAPEST — For a fledging political movement with its headquarters in a basement, Hungary’s Momentum has already achieved a degree of success by halting an Olympic bid. The next target is Viktor Orbán.
The Hungarian prime minister’s grip on power remains firm ahead of an election set for April 2018. Among voters who say they’ve made up their mind already, his Fidesz party regularly tops 50 percent in the polls, around 30 points clear of the far-right Jobbik and even further ahead of the Socialist Party.
But the much smaller Momentum thinks it has identified a weakness in the Hungarian leadership: its love of sport. “Hungary spends more on professional sport than on higher education,” said Momentum’s leader, 28-year-old András Fekete-Győr.
Momentum made news in early 2017 when it attempted to force a referendum on Budapest’s bid to host the 2024 Summer Olympics. It collected around 266,000 signatures, more than double the number required to trigger a city-wide vote on the plan, by arguing that Hungary wasn’t rich enough to afford the games.
The government’s response was swift. Orbán pulled the bid, not wanting to risk a repeat of 2014 when a planned tax on internet use led to mass street protests and ended with the only major U-turn of his premiership.
Even now, Orbán acts as though Momentum’s campaign never happened, telling party colleagues in July: “There is not a big world event that Budapest could not host.”
That was a boast with some justification from sports fan Orbán: last month’s World Aquatics Championships was held in Hungary.
The question now is whether Momentum has any momentum.
In local media interviews in the aftermath of the anti-Olympics campaign, Fekete-Győr said anything was possible in 2018. He had a more low-key message when speaking to POLITICO in late July, saying “this party was built for the long term.”
He said the real goal of Momentum’s 1,100 members — all of them subject to background checks by an “HR officer” — is not winning a few seats in the 2018 election, but a bigger transformation of Hungary into a “modern, digital country … in the eurozone, at the core of Europe.”
Fekete-Győr said he was happy to take his time and accept only the truly committed to the cause. He’s targeting the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian expats in Western Europe, and hoping his compatriots can be persuaded to back a non-traditional party. Momentum believes 80 percent of Hungarians living abroad would return home given the right conditions, without saying how it got to that figure.
Speaking to POLITICO in the party’s Budapest headquarters — a dingy basement — surrounded by flagons of cheap wine, second-hand furniture and a foosball table, it’s hard to imagine Fekete-Győr as the leader of the resistance against a leader as powerful as Orbán.
Yet Orbán himself was an upstart who became one of the Fidesz party’s founders in 1988, at the age of 25. Two years later Fidesz entered parliament with around 5 percent of seats. But by 1998, Orbán was prime minister at the age of 35.
There are striking similarities between Fekete-Győr and Orbán.
“We are patriots,” said Fekete-Győr, who is also sharp, multilingual and photogenic. Both trained as lawyers but quickly turned to politics. And like Orbán in his early days in politics, Fekete-Győr has teamed up with liberals while not fully subscribing to their ideals.
Fekete-Győr seems to have other influences. He was clearly trying to show off his inner Emmanuel Macron in his most significant speech, delivered May 1 at a rally in Budapest.
“The time has come for those from Kazincbarcika, from Budapest, and from London, the right- and the left-leaning, the Christian and the atheist, the poor and the rich, the young and the old, to recognize our shared national fate, because we have a task. Let’s set aside our animosities, because we’re all patriots, because we’re all valuable constituents of Hungarian nationality, and our task is no less than this: building an entrepreneurial, cohesive and modern nation in the Europe of the 21st century,” Fekete-Győr said.
Aside from tone, the main difference between Orbán and Fekete-Győr is around 48 percent of support at the polls: Momentum typically polls at 1 to 2 percent nationally and is more popular in the capital than elsewhere in the country. A July poll by the Republikon Institute showed that in Budapest, Momentum enjoys the support of 5 percent of residents, putting it in fifth place.
It’s not much but the Hungarian authorities clearly see Momentum as a threat, with anti-Momentum articles appearing regularly in the government-controlled press.
Critics say that Momentum is politically naive. Eva S. Balogh, a prolific blogger who opposes Orbán’s government, said that aside from the anti-Olympics campaign, Momentum offers only “banal clichés” and “hasn’t got a clue about politics.”
It’s also alienated fellow opponents of the Orbán government by rejecting potential alliances with Hungary’s liberal and left-wing opposition parties.
“When András Fekete-Győr says to the [Swiss newspaper] Neue Zürcher Zeitung that he supports ‘both gay marriage and border control’ [the border fence erected by Orbán to keep refugees out], he positions his party within the complex status quo — but with a ‘new,’ streamlined ‘hipster patriot’ foundation,” left-wing philosopher and commentator Gáspár Miklós Tamás wrote in a recent critique of the party.
István Hegedűs, a former Fidesz MP who left the party in frustration at its populist turn, was more optimistic. He said Momentum is “a very promising pro-European party” but reckoned an electoral breakthrough next year was unlikely given the group’s refusal to cooperate with other parties.
“Momentum might consider 2022 to be the right timing for grasping power — unfortunately, the country might not have so much time to preserve the rest of democracy and the rule of law under a radicalizing illiberal, populist Orbán regime,” Hegedűs said.
Momentum’s membership contains a large number of young professionals and students, and its focus on problems affecting young, mobile millennials makes it difficult to appeal to other Hungarians, especially older voters in rural areas.
But in one area, its messaging had more of an everyman appeal. Instead of focusing on the government’s treatment of the George Soros-funded Central European University or foreign-funded NGOs — issues far removed from the daily life of most Hungarians — Momentum used the Olympic bid as a way to talk about corruption and economic challenges.
Now it must convince Hungarians to vote for it.
Many of the party’s core supporters live outside Hungary: and it’s much harder to vote abroad. Expats who don’t live in a country that borders Hungary must go to an embassy to vote — which drastically reduces turnout. Only about 5,000 out of over 200,000 Hungarians living in the U.K. during the 2014 election registered to vote at the London embassy, for example.
“It’s easier to vote as a dual citizen who has never lived in Hungary than as a Hungarian living abroad,” said Tamas Csillag, the head of the London branch of Momentum.
Momentum’s solution? A car-pooling app they are creating for the 2018 election.
Lili Bayer contributed reporting.
The definition of trust (or perhaps madness) in the EU? Letting a Brit have the keys to the headquarters of the European Commission while (almost) everyone else is on vacation.
That’s what happened last week when Julian King — who, barring a massive Brexit change of heart, will be the last ever European commissioner from the U.K. — was on duty while his colleagues topped up their tans and caught up on summer reading. His boss, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, wasn’t on holiday for all of that time — he left late last week, perhaps having given King the first shift to keep an eye on him.
The Brit, who is in charge of the security union portfolio, had some work to do. He signed off on some €9 million in new money for the United Nations’ refugee agency and on a new method of financing the European Youth Orchestra, among other things.
But most importantly, he was in the office.
Juncker made it clear he wants the Commission to be open for business throughout the summer in a note sent to all staff, according to people who received the memo.
He set up a summer rota of duty commissioners who must be at work. King got the first week-long shift, with Malta’s Karmenu Vella taking over at the weekend, followed by Romania’s Corina Creţu and then Cyprus’ Christos Stylianides who’ll be in charge from August 19 to 27, according to a Commission spokesperson, after which Juncker will be back.
The president gave an interview to POLITICO in a rather empty Berlaymont HQ last week, before heading to Austria on holiday.
His message then was that the Commission is ready to act “within days” if anything happens.
It’s become a new mantra, used when discussing retaliation against U.S. sanctions on Russia, the legality of Venezuela’s recent election or Poland wielding the ax both against protected trees and the rule of law.
The summer rota is part of Juncker’s ambition of leading a “political Commission” and a way of showing other EU institutions, national capitals and even the citizens of Europe, that politics can’t always wait until September.
The European Parliament hasn’t taken the same approach, with President Antonio Tajani sending a letter to Juncker and other EU leaders telling them not to bother getting in touch.
Tajani told “Dear Jean-Claude” that the Parliament was taking its summer break and no work should be sent over before early September.
“I would be grateful if you could suspend, from the date of reception of this letter, the transmission of any notification or request to the budgetary authority [that’s the Parliament],” Tajani wrote in a letter dated July 13 — although he is keeping himself busy and did pop up last Tuesday, sending angry letters about Venezuela, which POLITICO obtained, to the Council and Commission.
According to EU diplomats, efforts to coordinate the bloc’s position on Venezuela were already underway by Tuesday, and the message was delivered Wednesday.
The home-alone commissioner isn’t completely on their own. At 9:45 a.m. every weekday, a skeleton staff meets in the Berlaymont, according to participants. Among them are officials from the Cabinets of both the president and that week’s duty commissioner, as well as from the secretariat-general and the spokespersons’ service.
At 10:30 a.m. all last week, a smaller group of people more or less directly reporting to Juncker met with the president to discuss the important matters of the day. They were given Juncker’s cell phone number for while he’s away.
The College of Commissioners reconvenes at the end of August for a retreat, which could easily be turned into a “fully-fledged” meeting should the need arise, a senior Commission official said.
To calm Italy’s fears on migration, Juncker has set up a special telephone hotline and email address that alerts three senior Commission officials, “to ensure a constant chain of communication between Italy and the European Commission,” Juncker wrote to Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni in July.
The Commission’s midday press briefing also carries on throughout the summer, although it’s been downgraded to a much smaller room.
Of course, some people can’t completely disconnect even when they are supposed to be on holiday. Commissioner Věra Jourová, who oversees consumer protection, has been tweeting away to make sure EU citizens are aware of what the Commission does for them.
“Summer is coming, and the EU is always on your side,” she said in a video, whether it’s about a late flight (you’ve got rights), a lost passport or diplomatic incident (“you have the right to consular protection”) or suntan lotion (“safe” if sold on EU soil).
The Czech commissioner spoke in English, perhaps to make sure the Brits realize what they’re leaving behind.
PARIS — France will always remain open to people fleeing “war and persecution” but will draw the line at migrants entering the country for “economic reasons,” French Interior Minister Gérard Collomb said in an interview with Journal du Dimanche published Sunday.
Collomb said that a new immigration law will ensure refugees seeking asylum see their request addressed within six months, while also strengthening the government’s ability to fight “illegal” immigration.
The interior minister also vowed to step up the fight against human traffickers who illegally transport migrants across the Mediterranean, but admitted that French President Emmanuel Macron’s proposal to set up “hot spots” in Libya is unlikely to see the light of day anytime soon.
Macron has suggested France set up “hot spots” in the war-torn North African country in order to accelerate the process of sorting out who might be entitled to refugee status.
“That type of initiative cannot be currently considered in Libya, due to the country’s situation,” Collomb said. Most foreign policy experts had similarly cautioned that the plan wasn’t credible.
Collomb pledged that the government would try to “reconcile efficiency with generosity” in dealing with asylum requests.
France will create 3,500 new accommodation spaces for asylum seekers next year and 4,000 in 2019, taking the country’s global capacity to 88,000 — double what it was in 2012.
The French government has long tried to soothe the concerns of human rights organization by pledging to build a better system to treat asylum requests, while also reassuring voters that it is serious about wanting to clamp down on illegal immigration.
“Our current standards are not as high as what they should be in France,” Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said as he outlined the government’s plans last month.
Collomb didn’t specify in his interview with JDD how the government intended to fight illegal immigration, save for a renewed pledge to cooperate with foreign governments to crack down on traffickers.
The interior minister also said that about 350 migrants remained in the makeshift camp known as the “jungle” in Calais, in the north of France, where thousands of migrants trying to reach the U.K. lived in precarious conditions until the camp was officially dismantled in October last year.
The government intends to build a new refugee center that can accommodate up to 300 people, far from Calais and Dunkirk — another migrant hub — in order to relieve the pressure on both towns’ local councils, Collomb said.
The leader of the German Free Democrats Christian Lindner defended his foreign policy in an interview with Bild am Sonntag, after he caused an uproar by calling for the Russian annexation of Crimea to be considered a “permanent provisional solution.”
The conflict around the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in March 2014, should be “encapsulated” so that progress can be made on other issues, Lindner — whose party is expected to reenter parliament after September’s election and become a possible coalition partner for Angela Merkel — told German media group Funke on Saturday.
He also called for the European Union to not make the lifting of sanctions — imposed on Russia in response to the annexation — conditional on fulfilling its responsibilities in the Minsk agreement and to reward Moscow for “positive intermediary steps.”
“To be honest, I verbalized what many others are thinking and what has already quietly been part of our Realpolitik for a long time,” Lindner said.
“And at least, because of this commotion, we’re now talking about Crimea again, after being silent for too long,” he added.
According to Lindner, the party has not changed its critical position toward Moscow. “Still, we can and must take lessons from history about how these conflicts can be frozen and then resolved step by step.”
Looking ahead to Germany’s federal election in September, Lindner said it was clear “the race for the top seat is over, Angela Merkel will stay as chancellor.”
According to the latest polls, Merkel’s CDU/CSU union is holding steady at 38 percent while the SPD trails behind with 23 percent.
“The exciting outcome to watch will be for third place,” he added. “That’s where we’ll know what message the country is sending with this election.”
Germany’s Linke is the third-strongest party with 10 percent of the vote, closely followed by the Greens, right-wing Alternative für Deutschland, and the Free Democrats with 8 percent each.
By the end of last week, even President Donald Trump had apparently had enough of the self-inflicted chaos swirling around his White House. And the person he turned to to fix it — instinctively, it seems — was a retired Marine Corps general.
John Kelly, out of uniform for just a year after retiring as head of U.S. Southern Command, had been running the Department of Homeland Security since January. He’s a straight-talking and sometimes blunt man whose accent suggests his working-class Boston roots, and he enjoys a salty joke. Sources say Trump was already in the habit of asking him for advice on how to make the White House run more smoothly.
Not since the early days of the Ford administration has a general served as White House chief of staff — and arguably not since the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a retired general, have senior military officers wielded such influence at the top levels of an administration. Kelly forms a nexus of power with three other generals: Secretary of Defense James Mattis, a retired Marine general; Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a Marine general; and national security adviser H.R. McMaster, still a uniformed lieutenant general in the Army — and a replacement for retired Lt. General Michael Flynn, who was fired after less than a month in the job.
As the administration first took shape, the heavy military make-up of the administration’s national security and foreign affairs team — of its senior leadership, only Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is a civilian — raised serious questions about the militarization of U.S. foreign policy. These concerns were exacerbated in February when Trump bragged his budget contained “one of the largest defense-spending increases in history,” and later when he handed a series of important new wartime authorities to the Pentagon, while proposing to slash the State Department budget by 30 percent.
But during the first seven months of this administration, the generals have emerged as a fairly coherent bloc of foreign-policy thinkers whose views have put at least the most extreme fears of critics to rest. Through both experience and military education, the generals are pragmatic realists and internationalists, committed to the United States’ leadership role in the world. Internally, they’ve been a strong counterweight to the nationalist/populist faction in the White House led by chief strategist Steve Bannon, which was behind controversial Trump policies like the initial immigration ban, the rejection of the Paris climate change accords, and potential steel tariffs that could yet spark a global trade war.
Taken as a group, Trump’s generals have tended to see their mission as twofold: The first job is to correct what senior military officers see as the mistakes of the Obama administration, a hesitancy to use force or commit troops that many allies perceived as a retreat from traditional U.S. commitments in the world.
The second job — and the far riskier one — is to mitigate the damage caused by their boss.
An undisciplined and shoot-from-the-lip president, Trump has shown a proclivity for rattling allies with unexpected tweets and bullying phone calls. When he trumpets his “America first” foreign policy, it’s widely interpreted by allies as a fig leaf for isolationism and protectionism. The generals, with Tillerson as something of a junior partner — nicknamed the “axis of adults” by a number of establishment Republicans and conservative commentators — have become the reassurers-in-chief to the outside world. They’ve already persuaded Trump to back away from some of his most controversial foreign policy positions, including labeling NATO “obsolete,” moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, rescinding the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Iran nuclear deal, and reconsidering the venerable “One China” policy.
And they’ve won some internal fights. McMaster, in particular, appears to be locked in battle with the nationalist faction: He has recently cleared out a number of senior national-security staffers associated with his predecessor Mike Flynn or seen as allied to Bannon; he’s fired Rich Higgins, the strategi planning director who wrote a conspiracy-laced memo, as well as Intelligence Directorate head Ezra Cohen-Watnick, a Bannon ally who earlier this year secretly shared intelligence with Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee Representative Devin Nunes. For his troubles, McMaster is now under attack by Bannon’s former website, Breitbart, which is covering his “purge” with blazing headlines—though he appears to be enjoying some protection from the arrival of Kelly. Which suggests that the more interesting internal fight may be the one Kelly is just beginning, trying to both corral a deeply disjointed White House staff and temper Trump’s erratic day-to-day impulses.
What’s at stake, in the minds of the generals, is something considerably larger than winning the internal Game of Thrones. In the back of his airplane returning from a recent trip to Asia, General Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told me that that the international order they were striving to protect was more volatile and unpredictable today than at any moment since World War II. “Today, we’re confronting simultaneous challenges posed by China, North Korea, Russia and Iran, as well as a natural disaster in Sri Lanka,” he said, referring to flooding that had recently displaced hundreds of thousands of people. “So, as I prepare for posture hearings in Congress, that’s a reminder that this is the world as it is, not the world as we might want it to be.”
The world as it is also includes a global Islamist insurgency, U.S. combat operations in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, and growing instability and state failure around the world, from Yemen to South Sudan to Venezuela. The defense of what author Robert Kagan calls “The World America Made” now depends on the success of Trump’s generals in the twin objectives of shaping a more muscular national security posture, and limiting the international blowback from an “America First” foreign policy of naked nationalism and mercantilism — even as their own commander-in-chief projects that face to the world.
* * *
Why generals at all? Donald Trump, a flamboyant billionaire and reality-TV star who received multiple deferments from serving in Vietnam, might initially seem an unlikely boss for a clique of buttoned down military officers. But from his days at the New York Military Academy, Trump seems to have retained an innate respect for the uniform, and above all he likes tough guys. All of his top generals distinguished themselves in multiple combat tours, and Trump especially likes reminding Mattis of a former nickname he would just as soon retire, “Mad Dog.”
For their part, the generals were qualified to step into a Trump administration in a way that few other national-security experts were: Experienced and worldly without being partisan or political, and thus not part of the “Washington swamp” that candidate Trump constantly promised to drain. By training, they innately respect the position of the commander-in-chief and the institution of the presidency, regardless of who holds it. And unlike many of the Republican defense and foreign policy experts in the Republican establishment, they hadn’t put their names on “Never Trump” proclamations during the campaign.
Trump’s closest relationship was with none of his current generals, but with Flynn, a decorated combat veteran who served as the former intelligence chief for Joint Special Operations Command. The brash businessman and the maverick soldier had something in common: Both felt that America had lost the knack of “winning,” either in international trade or in the global fight against Islamist extremists. The two bonded on the campaign trail, and Flynn infamously spoke at the Republican National Convention, leading the crowd in chants of “Lock Her Up” in reference to Hillary Clinton. Flynn was eventually fired as Trump’s national security adviser for his entanglement with Russia, and is now a target of the FBI’s investigation — and his fall from grace presents a cautionary tale of the dangers military officers can face in entering the unfamiliar terrain of hyperpartisan politics, and the whirlpool of controversies constantly swirling around Trump.
Flynn’s replacement was a surprising choice for an ahistorical president who puts a premium on obsequiousness and loyalty in his subordinates: McMaster is a warrior-scholar who distinguished himself in combat, but also wrote a book called “Dereliction of Duty,” a critique of generals who didn’t speak honestly enough to their civilian bosses during the Vietnam War. He had made a career out of independent thought and speaking truth to power.
Mattis, similarly, has a scholarly reputation: a noted intellectual and keen student of history, Mattis sprinkles his conversations with references to Thucydides and the Peloponnesian war, Abraham Lincoln’s struggle to prepare the nation for the end of slavery, and the enduring lessons of the post-World War II Marshall Plan, fashioned by his predecessor George C. Marshall, the last retired general to serve as defense secretary. (Kelly reportedly caught the eye of Team Trump for reasons a little closer to the Trump campaign themes: In testimony, he gave before the Senate Armed Services Committee in 2015, he argued that a porous southern border was a potentially “existential” national security threat.)
Given that the Marine Corps is the smallest of the four major armed services, the Marines that rise to the level of general form an especially tight-knit clique. Kelly and Joint Chiefs Chairman Joe Dunford served under Mattis multiple times in combat in Iraq, close aides say, and the three talk frequently and meet often at national security meetings and retirement ceremonies. It was General Dunford who personally delivered the heartbreaking news to Kelly that his son, 2nd Lt. Robert Kelly, was killed in action in Afghanistan in 2011.
As a group, Trump’s generals are united by bonds of friendship, common experience and wartime sacrifice. By the nature of their military education — and the U.S. military’s constant overseas deployments of the past two decades—they’re also well steeped in international relations, and deeply committed to the global alliance structure that the U.S. military built and maintained after World War II. Their wartime experiences have also made them sensitive to looming threats, whether from Islamist extremists, a hegemonic Iran, and especially a revanchist Russia that has targeted Western democracies as its enemies.
* * *
They also have one more thing in common: Serious worries about the Obama Doctrine. Though in the broad sense, the generals are clearly embracing continuity in America’s relationship to the world, almost to a man they had taken positions in public opposition to aspects of Obama’s second-term foreign policy.
Mattis had been eased out as head of U.S. Central Command because of his harsh rhetoric about Iran at a time when the administration was negotiating an agreement to curtail Tehran’s suspected nuclear weapons program. As head of U.S. Southern Command, Kelly got sideways with the Obama White House for calling attention to the threats posed by a porous southern border. McMaster was publicly critical of Obama’s precooked deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. And Flynn, Trump’s first national security adviser, thought Obama was severely underestimating the threat of Islamic extremism in the Middle East. He believed he was let go early as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency for pushing back on the notion that the threat from Islamist extremism had largely passed with the death of Osama bin Laden.
Senior uniformed leaders privately blame Obama’s decision to prematurely pull all U.S. troops out of Iraq in 2011 for the rise of the Islamic State there, and they felt overly constrained by the White House’s extreme sensitivity to “boots on the ground” in the anti-ISIS campaign. Troop levels have thus been increased in Iraq and Syria under Trump, and the anti-ISIS campaign intensified. The request for additional authorities itself arose out of a widespread belief that Obama’s White House micromanaged military operations by insisting that military commanders constantly ask, “Mother, may I?”
The influence of their beliefs can be seen in Trump’s sometimes arbitrary-seeming foreign policy decisions. In the Obama administration’s eagerness to reach a deal curtailing Iran’s nuclear program, Mattis in particular felt that too little was done to reassure traditional Sunni Arab allies, and push back against Tehran’s support of terrorist proxies throughout the region. Trump thus traveled to Saudi Arabia earlier this year in one of his initial overseas trips, where he rallied the Sunni Arab states and announced a major weapons sale to Riyadh. After recently certifying that Iran was in compliance with the nuclear accord, the Trump administration nevertheless slapped new sanctions on Tehran for its support for terrorists and its meddling throughout the Middle East.
In a recent interview, Mattis referred to this belief that Obama failed to finish the job of destroying Al Qaeda and its offshoots. “I think under the Obama administration, there was a more accelerated campaign against terrorists than perhaps the administration was willing to sustain,” Mattis said in an interview with The Islander, the newspaper of the Mercer Island High School. As for Tehran, Mattis said, “Iran is certainly the most destabilizing influence in the Middle East.”
U.S. military leaders like McMaster have also publicly faulted Obama for setting an artificial deadline for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, and for setting too steep of a glide path for those withdrawals. The Pentagon and McMaster thus support the deployment of roughly 4,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan to halt recent Taliban gains — a policy reportedly opposed by Bannon and his allies in the White House. Trump has yet to weigh in decisively on either side.
“We saw with the precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq, and the subsequent fall of Mosul, what can happen when you withdraw before making your military gains permanent,” McMaster said at a recent conference hosted by the Center for a New American Security.
Finally, U.S. military leaders almost uniformly believed it was a mistake for President Obama to draw a rhetorical red line against the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons, and then fail to enforce it with military action when Assad gassed scores of civilians in 2013 with sarin nerve agent. When Assad crossed that line again last April, the Trump national security team responded with what looked like choreographed diplomacy backed by military muscle. Within days Secretary of Defense Mattis directed a missile strike against the Syrian regime for its use of chemical weapons against civilians, even as Trump held talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago about putting increased pressure on North Korea over planned nuclear tests. The missile attack on the murderous Assad regime was applauded by Democrats and Republicans alike. Having generals running U.S. foreign policy still worried plenty of liberals, but more hawkish mainstream commentators began talking of Trump’s generals and Tillerson as a stabilizing force that had finally brought much-needed discipline and strategic coherence to the administration’s national security and foreign policies.
“The same President Trump who can be gruff and erratic in public tweets is a commander-in-chief who is deferential and attentive when he talks to a star-studded cast of his closest military advisers,” national security reporter Rowan Scarborough wrote at the time in the Washington Times. Chimed in Eric Fehrnstrom, a former Mitt Romney aide, in the Boston Globe: “Thank God for the generals. … President Trump’s senior military appointees are taking a leading role and acting as a restraining influence.”
* * *
Nowhere is the influence of Trump’s “axis of adults” felt more acutely than overseas, where worried allies look for reassurance that “America first” does not mean a U.S. retreat. With the administration approaching the six-month mark in June, for instance, Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson appeared together at a news conference for the very first time — not in the US, but in Australia. The briefing at the annual Australia-United States Ministerial Consultations (AUSMIN) was a chance for a close ally to view Team Trump’s new power dynamic up close, and for American participants and observers to judge how the Trump administration’s “America first” foreign policy was playing overseas.
As partnerships go, the U.S.-Australian alliance is as rock solid as they come – but there are no more easy alliances for the United States. After Mattis, Tillerson and their Australian counterparts gave prepared remarks extolling their joint commitment to the “rules-based international order” — shorthand for a U.S.-backed system predicated on free trade and freedom from intimidation — that uneasiness was driven home by questions from the assembled press. Tillerson, who had made few public appearances, took a long, tough question from an American reporter about how the Trump administration has “tossed aside” free trade and climate change pacts, risking being seen as “America the Selfish,” or “America the Boorish.” “Do the president’s words no longer matter in international relations?” the reporter asked. By the end of the harangue Tillerson’s right hand was wagging in tight circles in an unmistakable gesture of wrap it up already.
“Are you sure you don’t have more?” Tillerson asked the reporter sarcastically, before launching into a defense of presidential policies and pronouncements that would be difficult for even the most seasoned diplomat to defend. Mattis took a stab and was equally unpersuasive. For her part, Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop offered a defense of her guests that has become increasingly common for bewildered allies, one that attempts to sidestep the president’s preferred bully pulpit: We will react to what the administration does, and not what the president Tweets. “I understand Twitter has a maximum of 140 characters,” she said. “So we will deal with the president, with his cabinet, and with this administration on what they do, what they achieve, and what their strategies are.”
Just days earlier in Singapore I had watched as Mattis was similarly cornered at the Shangri-La Dialogue. During a speech to Asian leaders and national security experts, he gave a rousing defense of traditional U.S. leadership, referring to America’s “enduring commitment” to Asian-Pacific allies based on “strategic interests and on the shared values of free peoples and free markets.” He promised that the United States would continue to defend “the rules-based international order” constructed by the United States out of the wreckage of World War II.
The cognitive dissonance of the Trump administration’s messaging was just as confusing to the political leaders and security experts in Singapore as it was to the press scrum in Australia. In the question-and-answer session after Mattis’ speech, a delegate from Singapore wondered why the United States wasn’t more worried that China was aggressively filling the trade vacuum left by its rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. An Australian delegate questioned whether the administration’s rejection of TPP and the Paris Climate Accord, and its bruising treatment of NATO, meant that Trump really wanted to deconstruct the rules-based international order. A Japanese parliamentarian wondered whether her nation’s security alliance with the United States was still based on common values like free trade, environmental protection and human rights.
Mattis, typically, tried to place the current moment into a historic context, pointing out that there has long been a strain of isolationism in the American body politic, and a reluctance to serve as the world’s policeman. But after witnessing the carnage of tens of millions of people in World War II, Mattis noted, the “Greatest Generation” recognized the danger of countries once again retreating back inside their own borders — implying, without saying outright, that it would prevail over Trumpian “us first” nationalism. “Even for all the frustrations that are felt in America right now and the sense that at times we carry an inordinate burden, that sense of engagement with the world is still deeply rooted in the American psyche,” said Mattis. And then, and not for the last time, he paraphrased Britain’s World War II-era leader and statesman Winston Churchill to explain Washington’s wavering leadership. “Bear with us,” he told the Shangri-La Dialogue audience. “Once we’ve exhausted all possible alternatives, the Americans will do the right thing.”
Afterward, on his aircraft flying home from Asia, Dunford told me that the president’s tweets never came up in the private meetings he and Mattis held with allied leaders. “I know there’s been noise about the United States supposedly walking away from our Asian allies. That narrative is real and it’s out there in the media,” he said. “But when you look at the facts, we have a pretty compelling story to tell. We are devoting 60 percent of our joint forces to U.S. Pacific Command, and we’ve overseen a significant increase in the volume of multilateral military exercises in Asia. We’ve deployed the newest and most capable weapons in the U.S. arsenal to the Pacific. So we’re matching our actions to the message that the United States remains committed to the Asia-Pacific.”
The message was meant as reassurance, and from my discussions with nervous Asian allies in Singapore extremely welcome. And yet everyone understands who ultimately calls the shots in the American system. Recently, Trump had gotten into a spat with the new leader of South Korea over who should pay for the deployment of a U.S. antimissile system to that treaty ally, which faces an existential threat from North Korea. Meanwhile, some of Trump’s advisers were pushing a new tariff on steel imports that could spark a global trade war. That reminded me of something else that Mattis had said during the question-and-answer session at the Shangri-La Dialogue.
“As for the rules-based order, obviously we have a new president in Washington, D.C. We’re all aware of that,” Mattis said. “And there are going to be fresh approaches taken.”
* * *
Since it emerged, the flaw in the “axis of adults” narrative is the assumption that Donald Trump himself is willing and able to fundamentally change. If generals like McMaster, Mattis, Dunford and Kelly and the other “adults” among his close advisers could just establish a disciplined decision-making process, the thinking goes, then surely the best arguments will win most of the time.
In reality, despite McMaster’s best efforts to instill a more orderly NSC process, knowledgeable sources say decision-making in the Trump White House still remains a much more fluid and informal affair, with competing factions frequently at odds, decisions discussed by Trump in ad hoc klatches over dinner or lunch, and freelance players like Bannon and son-in-law and top advisor Jared Kushner often circumventing the formal chain-of-authority by being the last person in the room to whisper into Trump’s ear.
The recent drama surrounding the firing or resignation of White House spokesman Sean Spicer and chief of Staff Reince Preibus suggests that John Kelly will face stiff odds in trying to wring order out of the chaos emanating from the Oval Office. His success in getting rid of 11-days-and-your-fired communications director Anthony Scaramucci, and assurances that he will be given authority to act as the gatekeeper to the Oval Office, were a start. In the end, however, the man inside the office will dictate the administration’s management style.
“Donald Trump learned about political infighting on ‘The Apprentice,’ where his management technique was to provoke fights between the different candidates and teams, and then decide who prevails by saying ‘You’re fired!’” Robert Bear, a former Middle East case officer for the CIA, told me. “I don’t see him changing that style in the White House. When was the last time you saw a 70-year-old man change for the better?”
The longer the disorder continues, the bigger the risk to the generals trying to keep the ship steady. The U.S. military remains by far the most respected institution in America, and current and former generals some of the most respected individuals in society, precisely because of a strict nonpartisan tradition and ability to stay above the political scrum. When the administration’s travel ban targeting people from seven Muslim-majority countries was initially unveiled by Steve Bannon and company with little consultation with Cabinet officials, for instance, then-DHS Director Kelly dutifully appeared before the press to insist he was in the loop in formulating the travel ban, when clearly, he was not.
“I think General Kelly took a hit for his commander-in-chief that day, but you can only do that once. The second time, you lose credibility,” former Secretary of Defense William Cohen said in an interview. “The larger point is, whether it’s Kelly, Mattis or McMaster, you can spend a lifetime building credibility, and loose it overnight.”
McMaster edged dangerously close to that line in defending Trump’s inexplicable meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the Oval Office the day after Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, in part because of the bureau’s investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. When news quickly broke in the Washington Post that Trump had shared highly classified, “code word” intelligence with the Russians, Trump sent McMaster out to defend the action to the press. As a clearly uncomfortable McMaster dutifully walked out to the White House lawn to issue a brief statement calling the story “false,” he unexpectedly ran into a gaggle of reporters in the West Wing.
“This is the last place in the world I wanted to be,” McMaster confessed, and no one had reason to doubt it. The next morning Trump essentially undercut McMaster’s defense that the story was false by insisting in a Tweet that he had every right to share highly classified intelligence with the Russians.
Retired Army Lt. Col. John Nagl is a counterinsurgency expert and former president of the Center for a New American Security, and he has known McMaster for years. “I believe H.R. McMaster was given a direct order by Trump to go out and try and defend the indefensible, and his doing so is OK with me because I truly believe H.R. may one day be the person who saves the planet when the proverbial crap hits the fan,” Nagl said in an interview, noting that the incident was nevertheless a blow to McMaster’s hard-won reputation for honesty.
As for Mattis, who has had his own run-ins with the White House over personnel choices and other issues, knowledgeable sources say he is also increasingly frustrated. Mattis was reportedly “appalled” and surprised by the Trump tweet barring transgender persons from serving in uniform, and he continues to receive unsolicited suggestions from the White House. Recently, Steve Bannon tried to get Mattis to consider an idea hatched by the founder of Blackwater Worldwide to install an “American viceroy” in Afghanistan who would run the war through “private military units,” according to a report in the New York Times; Mattis “listened politely,” the story said, but declined to include the idea in his review of Afghanistan policy.
In June, McMaster was finally able to persuade President Trump to publicly reaffirm a U.S. commitment to NATO’s foundational Article V commitment, but not before his failure to do so at a NATO Summit the previous month badly rattled America’s closest democratic allies, even prompting Germany’s Prime Minister Angela Merkel to publicly lament that “the times in which we could completely depend on others are, to a certain extent, over. …” POLITICO recently reported that McMaster is “increasingly a national security adviser out of sync with his mercurial president” on issues ranging from Russia, NATO, the Iran deal, and the Afghanistan strategy.
Before moving into his West Wing office, newly minted chief of staff John Kelly had seen his own relations with Congress grow increasingly testy. Those relationships will now be key to resurrecting Trump’s stalled agenda on Capitol Hill, which includes major tax reform and infrastructure initiatives. In late June, Kelly testified on Capitol Hill that he was “offended” by lawmakers who “often threaten me and my officers” for their stepped-up arrests and deportations of undocumented immigrants. The criticism recalled Kelly’s earlier admonishment that Congress should pass new immigration laws if it didn’t like the way his department was enforcing the current ones, or else just “shut up.” Many lawmakers were not amused.
Meanwhile, the frequent disconnect between Trump’s controversial rhetoric and stances and the “axis of adults” involved in clean-up duty was evident in the ongoing crisis with Qatar, home to the major U.S. airbase involved in the anti-Islamic State campaign. Shortly after Trump visited Saudi Arabia in May — during which he bonded visibly with the Saudi royals and the other monarchs of the Persian Gulf — Riyadh and the other Gulf Cooperation Council members announced a blockade of Qatar over its alleged financing of terrorism. Trump publicly backed the Saudis, working at direct cross purposes with Tillerson, who was engaged in shuttle diplomacy in the Middle East trying to defuse the crisis.
“Tillerson’s shuttle diplomacy to try and solve the Qatar crisis was a reminder that, in terms of conflict management, there is no simple substitute for U.S. diplomacy, but the crisis erupted in large part because during his visit President Trump seemed to provoke Saudi Arabia to take a hard line with Qatar,” said Wolfgang Ischinger, the former German ambassador to the United States, and currently head of the Munich Security Conference. Similarly, European allies were relieved that McMaster and Mattis finally convinced Trump to publicly embrace Article V, he said, but lasting damage was done by Trump’s unwillingness to do so during the NATO Summit.
“Trump’s hesitancy on Article V and earlier talk of NATO being ‘obsolete’ have left a lingering sense of uncertainty and unpredictability about the United States’ commitment to the alliance,” said Ischinger. “Trump’s generals keep telling us to look at what they are doing, and not what the president is saying, but the trans-Atlantic boat has been severely rocked and there is a lingering concern in Europe that more waves and surprises are likely to come.”
* * *
No matter how hard they try, Trump’s generals cannot fully mitigate the lasting damage of an “American first” foreign policy that is often interpreted overseas as much loud boasting backed up with a military stick. Even in normal times, the United States’ superpower military threatens to overshadow its soft-power diplomacy, despite the fact that generals stationed overseas are technically outranked by U.S. ambassadors. Trump’s clear preference for the company of generals and his frequent military tough talk, combined with his administration’s steady marginalization of the State Department, sends an even stronger signal, and one that many allies find alarming.
Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates used to highlight the dangers in that vast dichotomy in funding and influence between the Pentagon and Foggy Bottom by noting that there are more people in military bands than in the entire Foreign Service — giving voice to the widespread unease among senior military leaders about being front and center in U.S. foreign policy. None of Trump’s generals have forgotten that’s exactly how they ended up isolated and stuck inside a broken Iraq, with little help from the State Department or a diplomatic corps that had been largely shut out of the decision-making surrounding the invasion.
While he conducts a yearlong review to rationalize deep cuts in the State Department budget, however, Tillerson has left whole management layers of undersecretaries and assistant secretaries vacant, and the seventh floor of Foggy Bottom where he works is said by insiders to resemble a “ghost town.” The vacancies nearly led the department to cancel the incoming class of Foreign Service officers, knowledgeable sources say, and there is a move by the White House to try and have management of refugee issues taken away from the soft power State Department and given to the hard power Department of Homeland Security.
Nicholas Burns is director of the Future of Diplomacy Project at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, and the former third-ranking official at the State Department. “There is a real fear in the diplomatic community that the goal of the Bannon faction in the White House is to fundamentally weaken the State Department,” he said in an interview. Proposed draconian cuts in the budgets of the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development, the wholesale failure to fill vacancies in the leadership ranks, and efforts to strip the department of key functions, he said, have all severely undercut morale in the Foreign Service. “Mattis, McMaster and Tillerson are all very solid people, but there is not one senior Trump adviser with diplomatic experience, which is a terrible mistake,” Burns said. Aware of the danger of an overly militarized foreign policy, Defense Secretary Mattis has forged a close relationship with Tillerson, walking over to Foggy Bottom from his home on the Navy Annex once a week for breakfast, and speaking by phone two to three times a day with Tillerson. As a commander, Mattis once testified that if Congress was going to cut the budget of the diplomatic corps, then he was going to need to buy more ammunition. Unless Tillerson can somehow reverse the slow-motion strangulation of his State Department, Mattis might want to adjust his ammo budget sooner rather than later.
The problem, in the end, is that even the most thoughtful generals tend to represent just one instrument in a strategic toolbox that draws its strength from the collective capabilities of the U.S. government. As the old saying goes, if all you have is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail. Michele Flournoy is co-founder of the Center for a New American Security, and previously the No. 3 official in the Pentagon, and worries about the lack of a bigger-picture approach. “There is certainly a danger of the White House becoming too disengaged from operations that put American troops in harm’s way,” she says. “Only the president and the White House can develop ‘whole of government’ strategies, coordinate all the tools of U.S. power to include diplomacy, and provide the necessary oversight to achieve successful outcomes. Because whether it’s the war in Afghanistan or the anti-ISIS campaign, none of these issues can be solved on the battlefield alone.”
James Kitfield is senior fellow at the Center for the Study of the Presidency & Congress. He is a former senior correspondent for National Journal and has written about defense, national security and foreign policy issues from Washington, D.C., for more than two decades.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani accused the U.S. of violating the Iran nuclear deal and stressed the need to continue building cooperation with the European Union, while being sworn in for a second term Saturday.
U.S. President Donald Trump signed off last week on a law to add sanctions against Iran, as well as Russia and North Korea. The move comes two years after the Obama administration, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany agreed on the nuclear non-proliferation deal.
EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, who attended Rouhani’s swearing in ceremony in Tehran on Saturday, said the EU wants to make sure the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is fully implemented.
“The recurrent violation of commitments by the U.S. administration and imposing new sanctions against Iran have negative impacts on the Iranian nation’s public opinion and could be detrimental to the process of implementation of the JCPOA,” Rouhani said in a meeting with Mogherini before the ceremony, according to the Iranian news agency Tasnim.
Iran will continue to carry out the agreement as long as others don’t violate it, he said, adding that full implementation requires the parties to facilitate economic, banking and business relations with Iran.
Rouhani praised the progress in Iran-EU relations over the past four years and said there’s room for greater investment in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical sectors.
Mogherini confirmed that Iran has fully complied with the nuclear deal.
Rouhani was elected to a second term in May. More than 130 officials from 85 countries attended his swearing in, Tasnim reported.
Sanitary conditions in refugee detention centers in Libya are severely lacking, according to a report drafted by European Union officials and seen by German magazine Der Spiegel.
“The conditions are in line with expectations — poor sanitary conditions, insufficient space and hygiene to hold more than 1,000 refugees in detention,” according to the report EU diplomats sent to Brussels following their visit to Tarek al-Sika detention center in Tripoli earlier this year.
“The small area dedicated to distributing medication was a sad sight,” it added.
According to the report, many refugees who EU diplomats spoke to said they had been held captive at the center for several months, some for more than a year. Many reported having lost essential possessions — money, cell phones, identification papers — by the time they reached Libya.
Libyan counterparts told EU diplomats refugees were often held in centers until they paid a ransom. “Migrants are sometimes even sold back and forth between detention centers,” according to the report, which dates back to April.
Refugee rights organizations and NGOs such as Doctors Without Borders have criticized conditions in Libyan refugee centers and slammed the EU’s cooperation with Libyan authorities to stem the flow of migrants reaching its shores. German diplomats previously likened conditions in detention centers to those in concentration camps.
According to new Italian interior ministry figures, about 11,100 migrants made the dangerous crossing to Italy from Northern Africa — many of whom travel through Libya — in July compared to more than double that amount in the same month in 2016 (just over 23,500).
The reasons behind the summer drop-off are disputed. But according to Eugenio Ambrosi, the EU director at the International Organization for Migration, “the impression is that the stock of those who want to leave Libya is running out.” Only 20 percent of the migrants who reach Libya try to cross into Europe, he added.
The EU has pushed for greater efforts to facilitate voluntary returns from Libya, a figure that stands at over 6,000 so far this year compared to 2,700 in the whole of 2016. European institutions have also disbursed millions of euros in funding for African countries.
Russian President Vladimir Putin enjoyed a few days of swimming, fishing, sunbathing and more while holidaying in southern Siberia last week.
On his first R&R visit to Siberia, Putin also hiked through dense forest, went on an hours-long underwater dive in chase of pike and rode a quadricycle through the mountains, Russian news agency TASS reported Saturday, citing presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov.
“He chased a pike for two hours before eventually hitting it,” he said. “It was a very brief, but very eventful trip.”
Fortunately, Putin also remembered to take photos and video footage with a GoPro camera and a drone, including while spearfishing in a diving suit and snorkeling mask.
The Kremlin will release the footage on Monday, first on television stations and later on its website, Peskov said.
POLITICO put together a glimpse of Putin in the wild to tide readers over until then.
Russian President Vladimir Putin (L), accompanied by Defense Minister Sergei Shoygu in the remote Tuva region in southern Siberia. All pictures taken between August 1 and 3, 2017 | Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
 
Photo by Alexey Nikolsky/AFP via Getty Images
The British government ordered a rainbow flag to be raised above its main office in Belfast on Friday to coincide with a gay pride festival in Northern Ireland, the only British region that still forbids gay marriage.
Opposition parties and British media heavily criticized Prime Minister Theresa May for forming an alliance with Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, which has repeatedly blocked gay marriage, in order to maintain her majority after the election in June.
“Flying the flag during this week demonstrates our department’s recognition and support of the LGBT+ community in Northern Ireland and across the rest of the U.K.,” a British government spokeswoman said, according to a Reuters report published Saturday.
The 10-day Belfast Pride festival ends Sunday.
Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, the republic’s first openly gay prime minister, attended a Belfast Pride event on Saturday and said it was “only a matter of time” before Northern Ireland allows same-sex marriage, the Belfast Telegraph reported.
“It is, of course, a decision for the Northern Ireland Assembly, but I am confident that like other Western European countries they will make that decision in due course,” Varadkar said.
LONDON — Britain is about to show its hand in Brexit negotiations in plans that reveal the U.K. wants a smooth route out of the European Union.
The U.K. will seek a transitional customs agreement with the EU before moving to a new permanent relationship under plans sent to relevant members of Theresa May’s Cabinet for agreement before being published later this month, according to senior government officials.
The proposal — if it is agreed politically — will be set out in an official “position paper” that has been penciled in for publication the week of August 14, an official familiar with the content of the paper said. A second position paper, outlining the government’s long-awaited “solution” to the Northern Ireland border issue, which the U.K. considers bound up with its customs relationship with the EU, has been earmarked for publication the same week, officials said.
The position papers will form part of what officials described as a “big push” to counter a perception among the EU27 that the U.K. is underprepared for Brexit. They are the first of up to a dozen U.K. position papers to be published by the government over the next two months, ahead of the crucial October European Council summit, as set out to POLITICO in conversations with five senior U.K. government officials involved in the preparations for Brexit.
The plans show the British government wants a smooth exit from the EU that preserves trading relations in a nod to Chancellor Philip Hammond’s vision of a more gradual divergence from Brussels as opposed to the hard break preferred by more hard-line cabinet ministers such as Trade Secretary Liam Fox. It is not yet clear whether the proposed transitional arrangement would allow the U.K. to strike trade deals with third countries outside the EU.
The bulk of the work on the position papers was completed some time ago, but in recent weeks there has been a discernible “pickup of the pace,” one of the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
“There is a cranking up of the machine into another gear. There is an awareness that we have to get to the European Council having shown seriousness,” the official said.
The U.K.’s performance during the first substantive round of talks last month was criticized in Brussels and in the British press for appearing slapdash, an impression encapsulated by a photo of Brexit Secretary David Davis and his team seated at the negotiating table without notes, while EU negotiators arrived with reams of papers. Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief negotiator, was particularly frustrated by the U.K.’s refusal to put forward a counter-proposal setting out the cost of divorce.
The U.K. will make a concerted effort in the next round of talks later this month to agree on a final package on the rights of EU citizens who want to stay in the U.K. and British citizens living elsewhere in the EU, an issue that is also among the EU27’s top 3 priorities. “We want to put it to bed as soon as possible,” the official said. “We will exert some pressure to get that one over the line at the next round.”
The plans make clear the U.K.’s priorities for the next rounds of talks. They suggest the two sides are aligned on the importance of citizens’ rights and the need for agreement on the Irish border. The EU has insisted “sufficient progress” must be made on its top 3 priorities — citizens’ rights, Britain’s financial obligations to the EU and the Irish border — before talks can consider future relations between Britain and the rest of the bloc.
But while the EU is likely to welcome the emerging clarity in London’s position, senior U.K. aides said the government remains determined to hold back on resolving how much the U.K. must pay to settle what the EU sees as its financial liabilities, a move that is likely to infuriate Brussels.
The U.K. is also insistent that the Irish border question must be considered alongside future customs arrangements, something the EU wants to delay until its first three priorities are resolved.
While Britain’s future customs agreement with the EU is not on the agenda for this month’s Brexit talks, the U.K. believes the issue is “inextricably linked” to the Northern Ireland question, which Brussels has demanded progress on. By publishing the two documents together before the talks in Brussels, London hopes to persuade Barnier that the two cannot be dealt with separately.
Under the original plan drawn up in Whitehall, with input from No. 10 Downing Street, the position papers were set to be published in two tranches — one before the August talks in Brussels and the second before the next round in September.
However, the publication dates are now in flux, according to aides familiar with the discussions. Officials have even discussed publishing them all simultaneously this month in a show of force to counter accusations that the British government does not have a plan.
The customs paper is regarded by the U.K.’s Brexit team as being of “critical importance,” according to one senior government official involved in the planning process who asked to remain anonymous.
“The one we’re looking at most intently is customs,” the official said. There has been input from HMRC — the department responsible for tax collection — from the Treasury and from leaders in Northern Ireland, the official added. “That’s the paper that’s most critical,” he said.
The customs position paper will substantially clarify the government’s proposals on an issue that had been left wide open.
In her Lancaster House speech in January, May set out a range of options: a completely new customs arrangement; associate membership of the existing customs union; or the U.K. signing up to “some elements” of the customs union and not others.
However, she also ruled out remaining part of the EU’s common commercial policy and common external tariff — elements of the customs union that, she said, prevent the U.K. striking its own free-trade agreements with other countries.
A key question for Cabinet to decide will be whether the U.K.’s proposals reconcile May’s wish for “frictionless” trade with the EU and avoiding arduous customs checks, with the need to liberate Britain from measures that would restrict future bilateral trade talks, either during any transition period or afterward.
Fox has indicated he would not support a transition arrangement that prevented him making trade deals. He told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show in July that such a settlement would disadvantage the U.K. if Britain “wouldn’t be able to take full advantage of the freedoms available to us when we leave the European Union.”
Some of his Cabinet colleagues — most notably Hammond — have indicated they favor a longer transition. In a speech in June, the chancellor told finance and business leaders in the City of London that Britain will “almost certainly need an implementation period, outside the customs union itself, but with current customs border arrangements remaining in place, until new long-term arrangements are up and running.” He added that such frictionless customs arrangements were needed to keep the Irish land border “free-flowing.”
Both sides agree Northern Ireland is a priority, though neither has yet put forward a proposal to manage the land border without destabilizing peace in the region once the U.K. leaves the bloc.
London hopes its position paper will break the deadlock on the issue, which is being managed directly by Britain’s leading Brexit official Oliver Robbins, the permanent secretary at the Department for Exiting the European Union and May’s EU sherpa, and by Barnier’s deputy Sabine Weyand.
Northern Ireland is viewed by the EU27 as an exit issue — and therefore a priority for the initial phases of Brexit talks — but Britain believes a resolution depends heavily upon issues that the EU considers to be part of the future relationship bucket of issues, namely customs and transition.
The position paper dedicated to Northern Ireland will set out the U.K.’s long-awaited proposals for avoiding a “hard border” with the Republic of Ireland. While officials declined to share details of the plan, the U.K. government has been considering technical fixes —  such as camera recognition technology and pre-registered cargo — to minimize the need for physical border check points.
London is not convinced by arguments, made recently by Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney, that the matter cannot be resolved by such “technical solutions.” One of the U.K. officials said Coveney’s comments, to RTÉ in July, had been “premature.”
The British have been “taken aback” by the more assertive tone of the new Irish administration, under Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, the official added. On Friday, Varadkar called on the U.K., if it must leave the EU customs union, to join a new bilateral customs union with the EU similar to Turkey’s.
With talks due to resume in the last week of August, both sides in the negotiation will soon find out exactly how far they are apart on key issues.
German publisher WeltN24 GmbH has filed a case with the European Court of Human Rights regarding the detention of its Turkey correspondent Deniz Yücel, Die Welt reported Saturday.
Yücel, a Turkish-German dual citizen, was detained in February on charges of terrorist propaganda and inciting hatred in support of the Fethullah Gülen Terrorist Organization, the movement Turkish authorities claim masterminded the July 2016 attempted coup.
Yücel’s “baseless” and prolonged detention has made immediate on the ground coverage from Turkey impossible, his publisher said.
“We’re using every legal method available to us to defend Deniz Yücel’s press freedom and that of our publications,” Stephanie Caspar, head of WeltN24, said in a statement. “The complaint in front of the European Court of Human Rights is another important step forward. It is unacceptable that a journalist is thrown in jail simply for doing his job.”
“The complaint in front of the European Court of Human Rights is another important step forward,” Caspar said. “It is unacceptable that a journalist is thrown in jail simply for doing his job.”
Yücel lodged his own complaint with the Strasbourg court in April. Last month, the body urged the Turkish courts to clarify its position on the journalist’s case.
In the wake of a massive crackdown on political opposition and media freedom since last July’s attempted coup, Turkey’s judiciary has become too politicized and dysfunctional to be considered an effective domestic option, Turkish lawyers argue.
“We don’t expect much from the Turkish system,” Veysel Ok, a media lawyer who submitted the court application on behalf of Yücel, told POLITICO last month. “Our defense strategy is based on future applications to the European Court of Human Rights.”
Since July 2016, Erdoğan’s government has shut down 130 media and publishing outfits. Around 160 journalists are currently detained in Turkey, making it the world’s biggest jail for journalists.
British Prime Minister Theresa May is still prepared to leave the European Union without a Brexit deal rather than agree to unfavorable terms, according to her former chief of staff.
“It would be a bad thing if we got into a situation where there was no deal for all concerned, but there are circumstances where Britain would have to be prepared to walk away,” Nick Timothy, the architect of May’s disastrous snap election and an author of the Conservative Party manifesto, told the Telegraph in an interview published Saturday.
Timothy resigned from his position soon after the June election, along with fellow chief of staff Fiona Hill. He is still in touch with May but does not advise her on policy, he said.
According to Timothy, the prime minister remains intent on negotiating a Brexit deal that includes the “fundamental things that the country voted for,” including leaving the EU, taking control of immigration policy, freeing the country of the European Court of Justice’s jurisdiction and ending membership fees. “I’m confident those things will end,” he added.
Timothy also dismissed talk of the U.K. becoming a partial member of the European Economic Area.
“The intention of the government has been clear from the beginning — that if you seek a partial relationship the danger is that you will be in the worst of all worlds, where you will be a rule-taker with none of the advantages of being in, but you will also sacrifice some of the advantages of being out,” Timothy said.
May’s Cabinet will stick to the strategy she set out in January, to have a transition period before the U.K. leaves the EU and its structures, he added.
However, former Bank of England Governor Mervyn King warned on Saturday that the U.K. needs a “backup” plan in case it fails to reach a trade deal with the EU.
“We need to be able to say if we can’t reach an agreement we will nevertheless leave and we can make it work,” King, now a member of the House of Lords, told BBC Radio 4’s Today Program.
“It’s a doable proposition if we start now. We’ve probably wasted a year, but we need to be much further along the road to make it a credible fallback position.”
After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in November 1963, the CIA appeared eager, even desperate, to embrace the version of events being offered by the FBI, the Secret Service and other parts of the government. The official story: that a delusional misfit and self-proclaimed Marxist named Lee Harvey Oswald killed the president in Dallas with his $21 mail-order rifle and there was no evidence of a conspiracy, foreign or domestic. Certainly, the CIA’s leaders told the Warren Commission, the independent panel that investigated the murder, there was no evidence of a conspiracy that the spy agency could have foiled.
But thousands of pages of long-secret, assassination-related documentsreleased by the National Archives last week show that, within a few years of Kennedy’s murder, some in the CIA began to worry internally that the official story was wrong—an alarm the agency never sounded publicly.
Specifically, key CIA officials were concerned by the mid-1970s that the agency, the FBI, the Secret Service and the White House commission led by Chief Justice Earl Warren had never followed up on important clues about Oswald’s contact with foreign agents, including diplomats and spies for the Communist governments of Cuba and the Soviet Union, who might have been aware of his plans to kill Kennedy and even encouraged the plot. (There is no credible evidence cited in the documents released so far that Cuban leader Fidel Castro or other foreign leaders had any personal role in ordering Kennedy’s murder.)
The CIA documents also offer tantalizing speculation about the chain of events in late 1963 that explained Oswald’s motives for killing Kennedy, which have previously never been established with certainty—how he may have become enraged after reading a detailed article in his hometown newspaper in New Orleans in September suggesting that his hero Castro had been targeted for assassination by the Kennedy administration. According to that theory, Oswald, who had rifle training in the Marine Corps, then set out to seek vengeance on Castro’s behalf—to kill Kennedy before the American president managed to kill the Cuban leader.
If that proved true, it would have raised a terrible question for the CIA: Was it possible that JFK’s assassination was, directly or indirectly, blowback for the spy agency’s plots to kill Castro? It would eventually be acknowledged the CIA had, in fact, repeatedly tried to assassinate Castro, sometimes in collusion with the Mafia, throughout Kennedy’s presidency. The CIA’s arsenal of weapons against Castro included a fungus-infected scuba suit, a poison-filled hypodermic needle hidden in a pen—and even an exploding cigar. The Warren Commission, never told about the CIA’s Castro plots, mostly ducked the question of Oswald’s motives, other than saying in its final report that he had expressed a “hatred for American society.”
JFK historians and the nation’s large army of private assassination researchers are still scrambling to make sense of the latest batch of tens of thousands of pages of previously secret CIA and FBI documents that were unsealed last week by the National Archives. The documents—441 files that had previously been withheld entirely, along with 3,369 other documents that had been previously released only in part—were made public under terms of a 1992 law that requires the unsealing of all JFK assassination-related documents by October, the law’s 25-year deadline.
Since the release last week, researchers do not appear to have identified any single document that could be labeled a bombshell or that rewrites the history of the assassination in any significant way. Many of the documents, which were made public only online, are duplicates of files that had been released years earlier. Other documents are totally illegible or refer to CIA and FBI code names and pseudonyms that even experienced researchers will take months to decipher. Several documents are written in foreign languages.
Still, the newly released documents may offer an intriguing glimpse of what comes next. The National Archives is required to unseal a final batch of about 3,100 never-before-seen JFK-assassination files by the October deadline, assuming the move is not blocked by President Donald Trump. Under the 1992 Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, the president is the only person empowered to stop the release. (Congressional and other government officials have told us in confidence that at least two federal agencies—likely the CIA and FBI—are expected to appeal to Trump to block the unsealing of at least some of the documents. Even after 54 years, some government officials apparently still want to keep secrets about this seminal event in U.S. history. The CIA and FBI acknowledged earlier this year they are conducting a final review of the documents, but have been unwilling to say if they will ask the president to block some from being released.)
None of the files released last week undermines the Warren Commission’s finding that Oswald killed Kennedy with shots fired from his perch on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository in Dallas’ Dealey Plaza—a conclusion supported by 21st century forensic analysis—and that there was no credible evidence of a second gunman.
But the new documents do revive the question of why the CIA, so skeptical internally of many of the commission’s other findings by the 1970s, never acknowledged those suspicions to later government investigators—or to the public. Documents released decades ago show that CIA and FBI officials repeatedly misled—and often lied outright—to Chief Justice Warren and his commission, probably to hide evidence of the agencies’ bungling in their surveillance of Oswald before the president’s murder. The CIA appears also to have been determined to block the commission from stumbling on to evidence that might reveal the agency’s assassination plots against Castro and other foreign leaders.
In 2013, the CIA’s in-house historian concluded that the spy agency had conducted a “benign cover-up” during the Warren Commission’s investigation in 1963 and 1964 in hopes of keeping the commission focused on “what the Agency believed was the ‘best truth’ — that Lee Harvey Oswald, for as yet undetermined motives, had acted alone in killing John Kennedy.”
But what if the “best truth” was wrong? According to documents made public last week, the CIA was alarmed by the mid-1970s to realize that no one had properly followed up on clues about an especially mysterious chapter in Oswald’s life—a six-day, apparently self-financed trip to Mexico City beginning in late September 1963, two months before the assassination. The reason for the trip has never been determined with certainty, although he told his wife, Marina, that he went there to obtain a visa that would allow him to defect to Cuba, much as he had once attempted to defect to the Soviet Union.
The CIA acknowledged long ago that the agency’s Mexico City station had Oswald under surveillance during the trip, and that he met there with Cuban and Soviet diplomats and spies. The CIA station chief said later he was convinced that Oswald had a brief sexual relationship with a Mexican woman who worked in the Cuban consulate. Although there is no credible evidence of Soviet involvement in the assassination, Oswald’s other contacts in Mexico included—shockingly enough—a KGB assassinations expert who doubled as an accredited Soviet diplomat. A top-secret June 1964 FBI report, made public in the 1990s but apparently never seen by key investigators for the Warren Commission, suggests that Oswald was overheard threatening to kill Kennedy during his visits to the Cuban diplomatic compound in Mexico.
The files released last week also show that the CIA and other agencies failed to pursue clues that Oswald, who publicly championed Castro’s revolution even while serving in the Marine Corps, had been in contact with Cuban diplomats years before the Mexico trip—possibly as early as 1959, when he was deployed to a military base in Southern California. The information initially came to the FBI and the Warren Commission from a fellow Marine who recalled how Oswald boasted about his contacts with Cuban diplomats in Los Angeles, where Castro’s government then had an office.
The account from the fellow Marine was of “a lot more possible operational significance” than was realized in the months after the assassination but was never “run down or developed by investigation,” according to a 1975 CIA internal memo released last week. “The record of the beginning of OSWALD’s relationship with the Cubans starts with a question mark.”
That 27-page memo, which does not identify its author, is among the most intriguing of the documents in last week’s batch unsealed by the National Archives. Copies of the document were found inside larger CIA files released last week, including thick agency files labeled HELMS HEARING DUPLICATE. That seems to suggest the memo was given to former Director of Central Intelligence Richard Helms, who led the agency from 1966 to 1973, when he was later summoned to testify secretly to Congress about his involvement in the CIA assassination plots against Castro and other foreign leaders. Similar documents about the Kennedy assassination and Oswald were written in the 1970s by a senior CIA counterintelligence official, Raymond Rocca, who had served as the agency’s chief liaison to the Warren Commission.
Labeled “SECRET” and stamped “REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED” on each page, the 1975 memo lists several important clues about Oswald that went unexplored in the months and years after Kennedy’s death. (Versions of the same CIA memo were part of the flood of millions of pages of documents released after the 1992 law, although it has never attracted detailed attention outside a small circle of assassination researchers. Brian Latell, a respected former CIA analyst on Cuban intelligence, cited a version of the document in his 2012 book Castro’s Secrets, which suggested much closer links between Oswald and Cuba than had previously been known.)
The 1975 document noted the failure of the CIA, FBI and the Warren Commission to interview a key witness in Mexico City—Silvia Duran, the Mexican woman who worked in the Cuban consulate and was reported to have had the affair with Oswald. She is the “sole live witness on the record regarding Oswald’s activities,” yet her testimony “was taken and presented, solely, by the Mexican governmental authorities,” the CIA memo said. Duran, who is still alive, has repeatedly insisted she had no sexual relationship with Oswald, although she readily acknowledges that she helped him with his unsuccessful visa application for Cuba.
It was that same CIA memo that offered a detailed theory of the chain of events that led Oswald to kill Kennedy—how Oswald, who lived in his hometown of New Orleans for much of 1963, may have been inspired to assassinate the president if, as seemed probable, he read an article on Monday, September 9, in the local newspaper, that suggested Castro was targeted for murder by the United States.
The article, written by a reporter for The Associated Press in Havana and then published prominently in the Times-Picayune, was an account of an AP interview with Castro two days earlier, in which the Cuban strongman angrily warned the Kennedy administration that he was aware of U.S. assassination plots aimed at Cuban leaders, presumably including him, and was prepared to retaliate. The article quoted Castro as saying: “U.S. leaders would be in danger if they helped in any attempt to do away with leaders of Cuba.”
The CIA memo suggested that if Oswald, who was known to be an “avid reader” of the Times-Picayune, saw the article, it might have put the idea in his head to kill Kennedy as retaliation for the threat the United States posed to Castro—an idea that would have been in his mind as he left for his trip to Mexico that month. The possibility that Oswald read the article “must be considered of great significance in light of the pathological evolution of Oswald’s passive/aggressive makeup” and “his identification with Fidel Castro and the Cuban revolution,” the CIA memo said.
Immediately after the assassination, the CIA’s Mexico City station warned CIA headquarters that the AP article might contain a vital clue about Oswald’s motives for killing Kennedy—and even about possible Cuban involvement. But according to the 1975 analysis, “There is no evidence in the files on the Kennedy assassination that the Castro interview was considered in following up leads or in dealing with the Warren Commission, although Mexico Station specifically directed headquarters to the AP story very shortly after the Dallas killing.”
Previously released internal documents from the Warren Commission show that one of the commission’s most aggressive staff lawyers believed that Castro’s remarks to the AP—and the possibility that Oswald read the article—might be of great significance in explaining Oswald’s motives. But the internal files show that more senior staff members decided against any reference to the AP article in the commission’s final report for fear of feeding conspiracy theories about a possible Cuban link to Kennedy’s death. It does not reflect well on the legacy of either the CIA or the commission that, half a century after those gunshots rang out in Dealey Plaza, the newly released documents suggest that at least some of those conspiracy theories might be true.
Philip Shenon, a former Washington and foreign correspondent for the New York Times, is the author of A Cruel and Shocking Act: The Secret History of the Kennedy Assassination.
Larry J. Sabato is the director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics and author of The Kennedy Half-Century.
BERLIN — The plan was to put the brakes on the great diesel debate. It didn’t work out.
Across Germany as well as in Brussels and Vienna, criticism has rained down on a deal announced by three of the country’s powerful auto giants to pay for software updates to cut pollution in more than 5 million diesel cars — but not to undertake more effective, and much more expensive, changes to hardware.
The deal was sealed at a “diesel summit” between politicians and CEOs of the car companies on Wednesday that Germany’s two main political camps — which both enjoy close relationships with the car industry — hoped would take the issue off the agenda ahead of September’s parliamentary election.
But the strength of criticism from environmental groups, media commentators and others has forced both conservatives and Social Democrats to issue tough-sounding warnings to the auto giants.
“I’m giving the program that’s been agreed a maximum of three months,” Horst Seehofer, the conservative state premier of Bavaria, where the auto sector employs almost 200,000 people at companies including BMW and Audi, told DPA news agency on Friday.
He echoed widespread skepticism over whether the measures announced by Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW go far enough and warned that if the carmakers fail to come up with substantial results, bans of diesel cars in inner cities could follow.
Austrian Transport Minister Jörg Leichtfried issued invitations Friday for his own national diesel summit to try and coax the local branches of Germany’s auto giants to follow up with an offer for his country’s motorists that goes farther than what he called the “meager” deal reached in Berlin.
Even one of the big car companies poured cold water on the deal. Ford said it does not believe the software tweak “will have any material impact on air quality.”
The European Commission said it is watching closely to make sure the software fixes offered will cut emissions and that consumers don’t end up footing the bill.
Brussels-based NGO Transport & Environment said “burning through billions to make old diesel cars less dirty is not the answer.”
“Instead, carmakers should be required to fund more cost-effective, sustainable mobility and clean-air initiatives that can bring down pollution levels quickly,” said Greg Archer, the group’s director for clean vehicles.
More than 15 million cars in Germany, a third of all passenger vehicles, run on diesel, and brands such as Volkswagen, BMW and Audi are big exporters with production plants and subsidiaries across Europe.
For years, the country’s powerful car lobby promoted diesel as clean technology — until the Dieselgate scandal two years ago revealed systemic cheating in emission tests by VW, throwing the industry into a crisis.
Wednesday’s deal was widely understood as a triumph for the car industry, allowing the car companies to walk away from the issue while picking up the lowest possible bill.
Social Democrat (SPD) leader Martin Schulz, seeking to oust Chancellor Angela Merkel in next month’s election but trailing badly in the polls, was quick to stress in an interview with magazine Der Spiegel Thursday morning that there was a need for further action, calling the summit “obviously just a first step.”
He said it was “time to make [the carmakers’] concessions watertight,” and that the “chumminess” between senior politicians and the car industry must stop.
On Friday morning, the SPD’s deputy economy minister, Matthias Machnig, added it remains to be seen whether “other technical solutions” — in other words, hardware changes — were still necessary on top of the software updates and incentives from the car companies to trade in diesel cars on the road for a decade or more.
“We are talking about what value ‘Made in Germany’ — a sign of quality around the world — has,” Machnig told public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk.
Germany’s Green Party is trying to capitalize on the issue to boost its faltering election campaign. Earlier this week, it presented a plan for an emissions-free car sector and it is increasingly pushing for the introduction of class action lawsuits so consumers can band together to press claims against the auto industry.
Volkswagen is already facing consumer action over its emissions cheating, but defended the summit deal as a “decisive contribution” that will also include millions of euros invested in a fund to cut pollution in urban areas.
Unlike other politicians, German conservative Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt, who hosted Wednesday’s summit in Berlin, has been notably silent.
Ahead of the meeting, Dobrindt, from the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s Christian Democrats, had already signaled he would be satisfied with an industry-friendly solution such as the software updates that ended up being announced on Wednesday.
The scandal might nudge the industry and policymakers toward Brussels, with the European Commission keeping up calls for a Europe-wide position on the future of diesel.
Commissioner for the Internal Market Elżbieta Bieńkowska wants countries to communicate on the issue through an obscure working group overseen by her department, according to a letter she sent to EU ministers that sought to encourage politicians and carmakers to follow her lead by raising the specter of diesel bans in city centers.
“Despite the fact that I am convinced that we should rapidly move towards zero emissions vehicles across Europe, certainly it is not in the interest of political leaders and industry to face a rapid collapse of the European market for diesel vehicles caused by local bans,” Bieńkowska said in the letter, seen by POLITICO.
The European Union’s law enforcement agency launched a new campaign Friday to find some of the Continent’s most wanted criminals, by sending them postcards.
Europol has written personal messages to members of its most wanted list, all of whom are subject to European arrest warrants. The idea isn’t that the criminals will return home, but that the postcards will be shared widely online.
“By sharing these postcards and providing information, you can help us complete that last piece of the puzzle so that we can ultimately reach the fugitives,” a Europol statement read. “The more the postcards are seen, the better the chance of police locating these criminals and putting them behind bars!”
Europol said 36 criminals featured on its “most wanted” list have been arrested, at least 11 of whom were apprehended as a direct result of information provided by the public. Four fugitives turned themselves in after appearing on the list.
One of the postcards is written to David Daniel Hayes, ostensibly penned by British police, who is accused of multiple cases of child abuse. It reads: “Hi David. We have been trying to get hold of you because there is still so much to discuss. Please get in touch soon!”
The Austrian police supposedly wrote to Tibor Foco, suspected of murder: “Servus Tibor. We haven’t seen you for a while! We have one more space left on our next ski trip. Please come back to enjoy our beautiful Alps.”




 
BERLIN — A single lawmaker’s shock decision to switch parties in the German state of Lower Saxony brought down the local government and heaped pressure on Martin Schulz’s Social Democrats (SPD) less than two months before a national election.
The decision by Green MP Elke Twesten to switch her allegiance to the Christian Democrats, announced at a press conference at noon Friday, changed the power structure in Lower Saxony’s parliament as the SPD-Green governing coalition had just a one-seat majority.
The SPD-Greens government, led by Social Democrat Stephan Weil, had a combined 69 seats before Twesten’s defection. Now, the conservatives and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) have the one-seat advantage.
In theory, Weil could lead a minority government until the next election, scheduled for January 2018.
However, the leaders of both CDU and SPD expressed support for snap elections. The CDU’s parliamentary leader in Lower Saxony, Björn Thümler, said snap elections should take place “as soon as possible.”
Speaking at a hastily convened press conference, state premier Weil said he supported calling new elections, but ruled out stepping down.
“I happily submit to the will of the voters, but I will not yield to intrigue,” Weil told reporters, condemning Twesten’s move as “harmful for democracy.”
Snap elections, which would require the dissolution of the current parliament, could be held on September 24, the same day as the federal election, according to regional daily Hannoversche Allgemeine.
Twesten has been a Green lawmaker since 2008. In early June, she lost an internal party vote, meaning that she won’t be able to stand in the next regional election. That prompted her move to the CDU, a party with which she had always shared some political affinity, Twesten said.
“I am not a traitor and I’m feeling very well,” Twesten said.
Deficiencies in Germany’s national register of foreigners’ data could lead to serious mistakes in asylum procedures and deportations, according to a report published by Süddeutsche Zeitung Friday.
“The data quality is not good because it has not been adequately maintained,” Frank-Jürgen Weise, the German official charged with refugee management, warned.
Mistakes in the database, which contains the personal data and addresses of 10 million foreign nationals including 5.7 million people from non-EU countries, can “seriously slow down” asylum procedures and deportations, Weise said.
The database includes information on people who are no longer alive or foreigners who have since become German citizens and whose data should no longer appear in the official register.
All federal states are set to receive new guidelines in order to improve data quality and standardize procedures, according to Süddeutsche.
Government coalition talks in the Netherlands will enter their final stage when representatives of unions and employers’ organizations join discussions next week, De Volkskrant reported Friday.
The chairmen of unions and employers’ organizations VNO-NCW and FNV are expected to attend talks next Wednesday when negotiators of the four possible coalition partners reconvene after the summer break.
Employers’ organizations and unions are typically invited to join talks toward the end of the coalition building process as their views on socioeconomic issues can help resolve disparities between parties’ positions.
Discussions, led by former Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm, started in late June and include leaders of the center-right Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), the liberal D66, the Christian Democrats (CDA) and the conservative Christian Union. Earlier attempts to form a government after the March 15 election failed.
If the parties succeed in reaching a deal, the coalition will have a one seat majority in the 150-seat parliament.
Die Welt and FAZ devoted front page real estate to an Italian investigation into German NGO Jugend Rettet, which rescues migrants in the Mediterranean. Italy accuses them of “deliberately favoring illegal immigration.” The NGO allegedly took migrants onboard directly from people smugglers’ boats. FAZ also wrote about the Dutch tainted egg scandal. Several German supermarket chains temporary stopped selling eggs from the Netherlands over fears they were dangerous for consumers. The Dutch health authority NVWA claimed the eggs on sale now aren’t tainted by chemicals.

Le Monde’s front page featured a story about young, newly elected MPs and their first experiences in an old institution. The paper writes that parliament has been rejuvenated, feminized, and is more “society-conscious” after the June parliamentary election, won by President Emmanuel Macron’s party En Marche. The hemicycle is crowded — rare in the middle of summer, Le Monde writes.
Le Figaro reported Les Républicains MPs and former members of the International Democrat Union (IDU) are considering forming a new party.


The Times led with a story about allegations the head of a government fire-safety panel set up after the Grenfell Tower fire has a conflict of interest because he helped to certify building materials similar to those used on the west London tower block.
The paper also reported on an audit, which found the U.K.’s National Health Service (NHS) could save billions by “putting its house in order.” According to a report by Tim Briggs, the national director of clinical quality and efficiency, the NHS wastes too much money on poor care. He told the Times: “I do not think at the moment we deserve more money until we put our house in order and we actually make the changes that will improve the quality of care.”
The Guardian featured a report on the arrest of a British security researcher by the FBI over allegations he was involved in spreading malicious software targeting bank accounts. His mother said it was “hugely unlikely” her son was guilty because he has spent “enormous amounts of time” combatting such attacks.


Belgian daily Le Soir featured a story about a plague of mold infiltrating the Brussels court building. The fungi interloper was discovered in January and affects premises where legal documents are archived. The problem has not been addressed after a dispute between various government departments. The chairman of the French-speaking court of instance in Brussels said investigators took samples in June and are now awaiting testing to determine whether the spores are harmful to employees.
De Morgen reported on a so-called action plan for children of jihadi fighters. Belgium’s list of citizens who have traveled overseas to become jihadi militants includes four minors currently in Syria. A further 35 children were either taken to Syria from Belgium by their parents or were born in the war zone. NGO Child Focus said the children have been indoctrinated or sometimes deployed as soldiers. “We must be there for these children when they return to Belgium for their and our safety,” the NGO told the paper.

Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy is facing a criminal investigation in his country over allegations he accepted bribes to support Qatar’s bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the Telegraph reported Thursday.
The probe centers around a Qatari company buying a stake in a French energy and waste company, Veolia, and the sale of football club Paris Saint-Germain to another Qatari firm. According to the Telegraph, investigators are examining whether Sarkozy received kickbacks from those deals in exchange for France’s vote for Qatar. Sarkozy was president at the time his country supported the Qatari bid. 
The selection process for the 2018 and 2022 tournaments has been mired in allegations of widespread corruption and bribery.
In 2015, U.S. federal prosecutors indicted top officials from FIFA, football’s world governing body, on bribery and money laundering charges. FIFA President Sepp Blatter was subsequently forced to step down and was banned from soccer for six years.
Sarkozy is currently facing a separate criminal probe into allegations of illegal financing during his 2012 reelection campaign.
U.S. National security adviser H.R. McMaster, who has waged a pitched battle with other senior staff for control over policy and personnel on the National Security Council, is taking advantage of the shield offered by the arrival of his old military colleague John Kelly as White House chief of staff.
Kelly told McMaster this week that he wanted him to remain as national security adviser, said two senior White House aides, and has encouraged him to make any staffing changes he deems necessary. McMaster took that as a green light this week to oust top intelligence aide Ezra Cohen-Watnick — a Michael Flynn hire who has a warm relationship with Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law — after months of trying.
Kelly’s arrival did not lead directly to Cohen-Watnick’s dismissal, officials said, but was months in the making.
McMaster, a three-star general who was enlisted by Trump to replace Flynn in February, has been an increasingly volatile presence in the West Wing, operating under a cloud of rumors that Trump, with whom he is said to have a testy relationship, was considering reassigning him to another post, possibly sending him to oversee the war in Afghanistan.
In recent weeks, according to more than half a dozen current and former officials who have had direct interaction with him, McMaster has bristled at White House aides close to Trump whom he perceives as undercutting his authority. He seethes over every national security leak and lashes out over negative news stories he thinks are spread by his enemies. And McMaster, whose temper is legendary, frequently blows his top in high-level meetings.
“He can be very intense,” a McMaster confidant who speaks with him regularly and is a major supporter, told POLITICO Thursday. “Some find that difficult.”
McMaster is fiercely at odds with Steve Bannon, the Trump strategist who was removed from the principals committee of the National Security Council in April after McMaster’s appointment. In mid-July, the two sparred openly, in a widely attended policy meeting about Afghanistan, with McMaster advocating greater U.S. involvement and Bannon arguing for a major pullback.
The dispute got so out of hand, according to a pair of senior White House officials, that Secretary of Defense James Mattis had to intervene to get the discussion back on track.
While he has occasionally clashed with Kushner, the influential son-in-law, has a better relationship with him these days, a White House official with direct knowledge said.
The officials also said that McMaster fumes that he believes Bannon is responsible for leaking negative information about him to the news media — including via Breitbart.com, the far-right news site Bannon ran before joining the Trump campaign in 2016.
Several of the officials, who like others spoke on the condition they not be identified for fear of losing their jobs, said McMaster, who holds a Ph.D. in American history, remains on shaky ground with Trump, who they said wants to keep him — for now.
A spokesman for McMaster declined to address questions about McMaster’s relationship with key White House officials and his plans in the days ahead.
McMaster has steadily changed the complexion of the top White House policy shop in the past six months, going after people brought into the NSC by Flynn, who was forced to resign in February after failing to be truthful to Vice President Mike Pence about his contacts with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition.
Officials say McMaster had a leading role in pushing out K.T. McFarland, a former Fox News analyst and Reagan administration official who served as Flynn’s deputy and has been nominated to be ambassador to Singapore. He ousted the top Middle East adviser, an Iran hawk, replacing him with a retired Army colonel and military academic. Another top aide was dismissed after penning a memo that accused globalists, bankers and the “deep state” of undermining Trump — somethingMcMaster saw as trafficking in conspiracy theories.
His assault on those whom some have derided as “Flynnstones” reached its pinnacle on Wednesday when he removed Cohen-Watnick. He had been trying to push him out at least since March, when it was alleged in some reports that without authorization he shared classified information with Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who at the time was leading the House investigation of potential ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Other reported accounts disputed that Cohen-Watnick shared the information with Nunes.
Yet for at least a few weeks, Kushner and others close to Cohen-Watnick have tried to land him a different job, knowing his days at the NSC were probably numbered.
McMaster, several of the officials related, was overruled by Kushner and Bannon when he first sought to fire Cohen-Watnick, and he seethed about his inability to get rid of Cohen-Watnick when an article appeared in the Atlantic last month titled “The Man McMaster Couldn’t Fire.”
McMaster has prevailed in some fierce policy fights — part of a broader battle between Trump administration officials with a more establishment and internationalist worldview, like Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson — to prevail over the more nationalist vision espoused by Bannon and Trump advisers Stephen Miller and Sebastian Gorka.
McMaster has achieved some big victories, like preventing Trump from using the controversial phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” that Flynn insisted upon and getting the president to explicitly endorse the NATO charter’s Article 5 — which commits the United States to the defend its European allies — after sending mixed signals about the U.S. commitment to the alliance.
But McMaster was excluded from Trump’s discussions with Russian President Vladimir Putin last month at the G20 summit in Germany, has failed to convince Trump to send more troops to Afghanistan, and was barely able to keep the president from ditching the Obama-era deal with Iran to halt its nuclear weapons program.
“There is a split in the White House between the Bannon camp of ideologues and the McMaster-Mattis-Tillerson camp of more centrist intellectuals,” said Pete Mansoor, a retired Army colonel who worked closely with McMaster and now teaches at Ohio State University. “And this conflict is playing out in real time as the Trump administration tries to flesh out its foreign policy and national security policy.”
“The centrists appear to be winning the battle,” Mansoor added. “But not always.”
Despite what he has accomplished, McMaster is clearly still very much under fire.
He is accused by his detractors of trying to undercut the president’s agenda and has been the subject of a series of negative news stories that he blames on his enemies in the West Wing — especially Bannon, who people close to him say he believes was behind a recent string of stories on Breitbart that accuse him, among other things, of being anti-Israel.
Before his White House arrival, McMaster was a darling of the media. His best-selling 1997 book, an indictment of the joint chiefs of staff during the early years of the Vietnam War, gained him a reputation as one of the Army’s leading thinkers.
His later exploits as commander of an armored cavalry regiment near the Syrian border in 2006 formed the building blocks of the counterinsurgency strategy that underpinned the surge of American forces a year later to tamp down a sectarian war — and earned him public accolades from President George W. Bush.
But in spite of all that — or because of it — he had his share of detractors inside the ranks. As an iconoclast he rubbed many of the top generals, who also saw him as a publicity hound, the wrong way. It is unlikely he would have ever been promoted to general had it not been for a mentor named David Petraeus, the most accomplished general of his generation and another leading “warrior-intellectual.”
In the White House, McMaster finds the fierce public scrutiny grating, according several of his close supporters, including articles that have suggested he sullied his reputation by agreeing to work for Trump in the first place and for defending him publicly — particularly when he went to bat for his boss after reports that Trump shared classified information with visiting Russian officials in the Oval Office.
“It’s hard to know how much of H.R.’s reported troubles are real and how much are just crafted by his enemies inside the White House,” said Douglas Ollivant, a retired Army officer who served with McMaster in Iraq and is now a senior fellow at New America, a centrist think tank. “It’s difficult to know what reality is.”
Another salvo was launched at McMaster on Thursday, after the Washington Post published embarrassing transcripts of Trump’s calls with the leaders of Australia and Mexico, citing the National Security Council.
A conservative activist group immediately called for his ouster.
“If you are in charge of something and can’t keep control of your own staff, you lose your job,” said Rick Manning, a former official in the Bush administration and now president of the nonpartisan Americans for Limited Government, which blasted out a news release calling on Trump to fire his national security adviser. “He has lost control of the national security apparatus.”
But McMaster’s supporters are certainly not counting him out yet and said his approach may ultimately win over who counts the most: Trump, who admires his hard-charging but thorough approach.
“He does respect those who produce at the end of the day and come in with a well thought-out plan,” said the confidant. “McMaster knows how to run a rigorous process. He seriously wants America to achieve its objectives and to provide the president thoroughly developed, integrated policy options.”
U.S. President Donald Trump used a campaign-style rally Thursday night to level a sustained attack on the investigation into Russian meddling in last year’s election, just hours after news broke that special counsel Robert Mueller had tapped a grand jury as part of the wide-ranging probe.
Calling the investigation “fake” and “demeaning,” he said it was both a Democratic excuse for the election loss and a distraction from what Trump contends are the more serious crimes of his 2016 opponent, Hillary Clinton.
The adoring crowd here responded by reprising a hallmark of the campaign, chanting, “Lock her up!”
For a president who feels wounded and betrayed by some of his closest allies — including Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who recused himself from the Russian matter — the night offered a chance to punch back in front of his base, which urged on his every blow.
“The reason why Democrats only talk about the totally made-up Russia story is because they have no message, no agenda and no vision,” Trump said to a roar of approval. “They don’t talk about the all-time-high stock market, they don’t talk about reforms to the VA, or about manufacturing jobs we’re bringing back to America by the hundreds of thousands, they don’t talk about the Keystone pipeline that I immediately approved.”
“The Russia story is a total fabrication,” the president added. “It’s just an excuse for the greatest loss in the history of American politics, that’s all it is.”
The intelligence community has concluded that the Russian government interfered in the election to help Trump and harm Clinton. Mueller, along with three congressional committees, is investigating the interference and whether Trump’s campaign colluded in the effort.
“It just makes them feel better when they have nothing else to talk about,” Trump said. “What the prosecutors should be looking at are Hillary Clinton’s 33,000 deleted emails.”
The line brought some of the the loudest applause of the night.
“And they should be looking at the paid Russian speeches,” he continued, offering no proof of his assertions. “And the owned Russian companies. Or let them look at the uranium she sold that is now in the hands of very angry Russians. Most people know there were no Russians in our campaign, there never were.”
“We didn’t win because of Russia — we won because of you, that I can tell you,” Trump said, continuing the riff. “Have you seen any Russians in West Virginia or Ohio or Pennsylvania? Are there any Russians here tonight? They can’t beat us at the voting booths, so they’re trying to cheat you out of the future and the future that you want. They’re trying to cheat you out of the leadership that you want with a fake story that is demeaning to all of us, and most importantly demeaning to our country and demeaning to our Constitution.”
Trump has been fuming about the Russia allegations since they first emerged during the campaign, and Thursday’s message reflected an emerging defense that takes aim at Clinton while also painting the scandal as a Democratic obstruction tactic.
The message was coordinated across speakers.
Lara Trump, the president’s daughter-in-law, said in opening remarks: “When you hear the word ‘Russia,’ let’s keep something in mind here: The same people pushing this crazy story about Russia — and it’s so crazy, you have no idea — are the people who said there was no path for Donald Trump, the same people who gave us fake polls.
West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice, who appeared onstage to announce that he was switching from the Democratic Party to become a Republican, said: “Have we not heard enough about the Russians? I mean, to our God in heaven above, think about it!”
Trump’s visit to the state, which he carried with 68 percent of the vote, was an escape from a capital that has dealt him a series of defeats in recent weeks. His push to repeal the Affordable Care Act came up short in the Senate, and an immigration plan proposed this week to curtail legal immigration was panned by Democrats and Republicans. Trump continues to face problems within the White House, too, where his press secretary, communications director and chief of staff have all left or been fired within the last few weeks.
But for crowd, the controversies of the Trump presidency have done little to dampen their enthusiasm.
“I love the people of this state, I love your grit, your spirit, and I love our coal miners and they’re coming back strong,” Trump told the crowd.
Ever the showman, he took a “Trump Digs Coal” sign from the crowd as he entered and held it aloft. Trump touted recent economic growth in the long-suffering state as an indication that voters would be vindicated for their trust in the first-time candidate for office.
“And it’s 3 percent growth in West Virginia — I wonder how that happened,” he said. “West Virginia, you’re leading the average. When was the last time you heard that, West Virginia?”
“You’re doing great, I’m so proud of you,” he added.
The feeling was mutual.
“It’s not often that you get the president coming to southern West Virginia,” said Eric Blatt, who came to the rally with his three daughters and a number of their cousins. The group traveled from across the river in Ohio for the event and munched on popcorn while waiting for Trump to take the stage.
For Blatt, like for so many here, Trump’s ascendancy has brought hope that the region’s coal industry can come back to life. And like Trump, he’s already seeing progress.
“It seems like it’s starting to uptick a little,” Blatt said. “Evidently, something’s working.”
But of course, Trump’s appeal doesn’t end there. It’s his style, Blatt said, “the brashness, the ‘I don’t give an S-H-I” — he stopped there. “He’s a real dude.”
And supporters are taking to Trump’s new strategy of attacking Congress, which is led by Republicans, for any troubles in Washington.
His agenda would be further along “if the Democrats would get out of the way and let him,” said Mindy Woodard, a West Virginia native.
“And the Republicans!” Nick Woodard, her brother, interjected.
Whether Trump can keep up the disciplined message, swinging at Democrats, Republicans and Hillary Clinton alike, remains to be seen. On Friday, he leaves Washington for a summer vacation at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. Away from the Oval Office, he will still have his Twitter account handy.
Thursday’s news that Special Counsel Robert Mueller impaneled a grand jury as part of his ongoing investigation jolted Washington and sent pundits to the airwaves, seeking to explain what this latest twist in the Russia story might tell us about President Trump’s ultimate fate.
There’s no doubt that this move is significant: It means Mueller believes there is sufficient evidence a crime was committed to warrant a criminal investigation. But people are leaping to conclusions that the public evidence doesn’t yet support.
Only a grand jury can issue an indictment, which is the only way that someone can be charged with committing a felony pursuant to the U.S. Constitution. Merely impaneling a grand jury does not mean that Mueller will ultimately seek an indictment, although most grand jury investigations do result in someone being indicted. When a prosecutor does seek an indictment, one is almost always returned by the grand jury — hence the old saying a grand jury would “indict a ham sandwich” if asked.
A grand jury, which consists of 16 to 23 people, is an important tool that allows prosecutors to issue subpoenas that require people to produce documents and other evidence. Subpoenas can also be used to compel people to testify under oath before the grand jury. You can expect Mueller and his team to issue many subpoenas in the months ahead.
Because grand jury subpoenas are an important prosecutorial tool, typically a grand jury is impaneled at the very beginning of an investigation, not at the end. Indictments are usually sought at the very end of an investigation, after all of the witnesses are questioned and all of the documents are obtained. So despite all the punditry on cable news, there’s no suggestion here that Mueller is closing in on any particular target, such as the president. In all likelihood, he’s just getting started.
It is possible, though, that as a starting point Mueller will eventually seek an indictment of a lower-level figure in or around Trump’s campaign. Sometimes, when prosecutors are facing obstacles in obtaining evidence, they seek an indictment of one individual or a group of individuals prior to completing their investigation, if they believe that those individuals might cooperate with the government and provide evidence. Otherwise, decisions about who to charge are left to the very end of the investigation.
The work that grand juries do is secret, which means that grand jurors — who are ordinary citizens chosen at random and vetted by the federal district court — cannot share what is happening before the grand jury. Federal rules also prevent prosecutors from disclosing what happens before the grand jury. But those same rules permit witnesses to disclose what happened, and people who receive grand jury subpoenas are usually not prohibited from disclosing their contents. That means that we will likely continue to hear media reports about witnesses and documents sought by Mueller and his team, as we did on Thursday.
One quirk of grand juries could be significant. When a witness testifies under oath before the grand jury, no one else is permitted to be present other than the prosecutor and the grand jurors. The witness is not even allowed to have a lawyer present, and the normal rules of evidence that limit questioning in a trial do not apply. For that reason, when witnesses receive a grand jury subpoena, their lawyer often asks the prosecutor to agree to permit the witness to be interviewed by the prosecutor and a FBI agent with the lawyer present. The FBI agent’s presence would make it a crime to lie during the interview — creating the risk of Trump or one of his associates committing a crime through their words — but the lawyer would be present and could assist the witness.
That said, interviews are not typically transcribed, even though the FBI agent prepares a report memorializing the interview. For that reason, when it is important for a prosecutor to pin down a witness’s testimony, the prosecutor will insist that the witness testify under oath before the grand jury. For example, President Bill Clinton testified before a grand jury in the investigation by independent counsel Kenneth Starr — who later accused Clinton of providing “perjurious, false and misleading testimony,” leading to his impeachment by the Republican-led House of Representatives.
As for Trump, we’re probably a long way from learning whether he’s broken any laws, although he very well may be in Mueller’s sights. The fact that a grand jury has been impaneled does not impact whether Mueller will be fired, as the president has threatened to do, and it does not in any way restrict the bounds of his investigation.
That said, as a practical matter, the existence of a grand jury investigation confirms that Mueller is conducting a criminal investigation, not merely a counterintelligence investigation. It’s possible that the existence of a federal criminal investigation might increase the political cost of firing Mueller. Republican senators have already warned there will be “hell to pay” if Trump fires Jeff Sessions, whose recusal from the Russia investigation has enraged and frustrated the president, so that he can hire a more pliant attorney general.
That said, Thursday’s news is not surprising. Mueller has already hired 16 prosecutors — some of the most accomplished investigators ever assembled on one team. These are people with deep skills and experience in prosecuting cases on money laundering, campaign finance violations and foreign bribery, as well as a sophisticated understanding of how to handle sprawling, complex investigations like this one. If any crimes were committed, they’re likely to find out.
The evidence in the public domain was already enough to warrant an investigation, which is why Mueller was appointed in the first place. Now, the existence of a grand jury confirms what many of us presumed, which is that Mueller was conducting a wide-ranging criminal investigation. What we don’t know is what, if anything, they will uncover.
Renato Mariotti is a former federal prosecutor who handled many obstruction cases. He is now a partner at Thompson Coburn LLP.
LONDON — The U.K. may be leaving the EU but some British MPs want to adopt the European Parliament’s voting system on their way out the door. 
Relations between government and opposition whips — backbench MPs tasked with corralling their parties to back their leaders in votes in the House of Commons — have gone into “deep freeze” since the June 8 election in which Theresa May lost her parliamentary majority, according to MPs on both sides. Conventions that eased the passing of legislation by enabling MPs to miss votes without disadvantaging their own side have been cast aside now that every vote is on a knife edge.
Votes in the Commons — known as divisions — can take place at almost any time. Whenever a question is put to a vote, the Speaker asks MPs to call out to indicate whether or not they support the motion and if there are cries of “No!” a formal division is held. MPs must then be physically present to walk through corridors on either side of the chamber to record their vote. Now that the Conservatives no longer have a majority in parliament, Labour hopes to frustrate Tory MPs with the threat of surprise votes.
Maria Miller, a Tory MP who chairs the women and equalities committee, said the British parliament should reform its “outdated” voting system and switch to a similar process to the one used by the European Parliament, where votes are generally deferred and held around midday during plenary sessions with members sometimes voting on hundreds of amendments at once.
MPs should not be forced to sit there to “counter underhand tactics from the opposition, or indeed any other quarter,” Miller told POLITICO. The move would make parliament more productive, and allow MPs to get on with serving their constituents, she added.
The conventional pairing system — in which whips agree to match MPs with a counterpart from the opposing side when both need to be absent — was not put in place after the general election in June. A source close to the Labour whipping operation said there was no guarantee they would agree to this kind of arrangement.
“I do not support the idea that a vote at the end of every day, sometimes in the wee small hours of the morning, gives anyone the edge … It feels as if we were re-enacting the D-day landings, and trying to adopt guerrilla tactics, which, in my 12 years of being in parliament, have never worked,” Miller said in a House of Commons debate in July.
The snap general election, which left May eight seats short of a majority in the House of Commons, made it almost impossible for her MPs to miss votes. A deal with Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party allowed the prime minister to hang on but only with a working majority of 13, not comfortable enough to risk defeat, even on trivial or procedural matters that wouldn’t topple her government but could frustrate the passage of her legislative program through the House.
“It is going to be incredibly difficult for ministers to get away at all, let alone backbenchers,” said backbench Tory MP Keith Simpson. “If this goes on for six months or a year you are going to get some frustration.”
To make matters worse, the government is under pressure to pass eight Brexit bills by the time the U.K. leaves the European Union, scheduled for March 2019.
“The advantage we have is they [the Tories] don’t know what the battle will be,” a Labour MP said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “Even if you don’t vote at the end. Tory MPs will become very disgruntled having to sit there for an hour and a half when there isn’t a vote at the end of it.”
He added that the objective needn’t always be to defeat the government. Even if the Tories “won by a big margin” because Labour allowed some of its own MPs to miss a vote it would compound the government’s woes.
“From a government whip’s point of view they will get furious people running into their whips office saying ‘you brought me back from Timbuktu you bastard and we won by 50.’ So actually messing them about isn’t just about winning, or the threat of winning, you can lose decisively and it causes them more problems than it causes us,” the MP said.
MPs on both sides said, as a result, friendly MPs across the political divide may try to make their own whipping arrangements — something frowned on by the formal party whips.
Labour’s confidence stems, in part, from the experience of their whipping operation.
Nick Brown — who replaced Rosie Winterton as chief Labour whip — served as a whip in the last Labour government. Another senior member of the team, Mark Tami, was a Treasury whip in the last Labour government and has been an opposition whip since 2010.
The Tory operation, on the other hand, was weakened by the departure of Anne Milton, who was deputy chief whip before the election. Her promotion to the Department for Education is seen by some in Labour as a tactical error, particularly given her strength at building alliances across the political divide.
A lack of provision of opposition day debates — where opposition parties are able to propose a motion and call a vote — and a dispute over the number of Friday sittings  has further soured relations between the two sides, according to the Labour MP.
“It is all very well them saying they want things back to normal and then they do things like that,” the MP said.
PAPA AIR BASE, Hungary — Hold that convoy right there, general. Can we see your passport, please?
European leaders have made a priority of greater military cooperation, yet the ability of NATO forces to operate in Europe is still hindered by border restrictions and mismatched infrastructure, according to uniformed commanders and EU defense ministers.
While NATO has made substantial progress in surmounting legal hurdles to cross-border operations, lingering bureaucratic requirements — such as passport checks at some border crossings and infrastructure problems, like roads and bridges that can’t accommodate large military vehicles — could slow or even cripple any allied response to an emerging threat, officials warned.
To lift the roadblocks, and speed coordinated military action, the Dutch defense minister, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, called on EU officials to create a so-called military Schengen zone. The idea, loosely modeled on the open-border travel zone that has covered most of Europe since 1996, has also been a long-time goal of the senior United States Army commander in Europe, Lieutenant General Ben Hodges.
“We must be able to move quickly to any place where there is a threat,” Hennis-Plasschaert said in a statement announcing her proposal at a meeting of NATO defense ministers in June.
NATO leaders insist they have addressed the most problematic obstacles to cross-border operations, but nonetheless welcomed the Dutch proposal as a way to raise political pressure and create a sense of urgency around further improving the “interoperability” of allied countries.
Officials say the obstacles are only apparent during peacetime exercises and planning, and that during a real military emergency, NATO’s supreme allied commander for Europe — based in Mons, Belgium — would simply warn allies and deploy as needed.
But officials also said NATO’s deterrence mission requires the alliance to constantly demonstrate its capabilities in peacetime and those capabilities are still encumbered. Moving U.S. forces to Poland from Germany, for example, requires a five-day notice period, American officials said.
And then there are infrastructure challenges: roads and bridges that potentially cannot bear the weight of heavy equipment; tunnels that are not tall enough; air strips that cannot accommodate all aircraft.
EU leaders at their June summit formally approved a plan for greater military cooperation but the first concrete proposals will not be announced until European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s State of the Union speech in September.
According to some officials, the military Schengen zone would be an ideal first step because there is little financial cost or basis for political disagreement.
One historic challenge is that while NATO has greater responsibility for multilateral military cooperation, the EU and its national governments retain authority over border regulations.
Hennis-Plasschaert, in putting forward her proposal, urged NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and the EU’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, to work together to overcome such barriers.
A NATO official said that the alliance supported the Dutch proposal, especially if it prompted the EU to take similar steps.
“Overall, we are in a healthy position in terms of rapid deployment in peacetime,” the official said. “Efforts in the European Union to improve the cross-border movement of forces and equipment in Europe could also benefit NATO, provided that they are inclusive and complementary to NATO’s work.”
The Dutch proposal called on EU and NATO officials to work out the details, but it’s clear that copying Schengen in a literal sense is not the goal, given that not all EU countries are NATO members and not all Schengen countries belong to the EU or the alliance.
“It is important to coordinate military transport in Europe, to ensure that units and equipment are in the right place at the right time, regardless of whether they are deployed in an EU or NATO context,” Hennis-Plasschaert said.
A spokesman for the European Defense Agency, which helps coordinate military cooperation among EU countries, said a new joint effort with the European Commission to smooth military transport was expected to begin next month.
Hodges, a three-star general who is due to complete his tour in September, knows the limitations on military movement firsthand.
Last month, he sat in his jet on the tarmac of Papa Air base in Hungary, engines screaming in the 40-degree heat, as an aide collected the passports of the general and his entourage, including a German military attaché and this reporter, and brought them to be checked by Hungarian border guards waiting in a nearby car, so that the entourage could fly on to a base in Bulgaria.
Elsewhere on the base, 452 U.S.-led paratroopers were readying their gear to simulate an airborne operation aimed at repelling an enemy force that had occupied the territory of a NATO ally. Hours later, Hodges watched through binoculars as the paratroopers carried out their drill in Bulgaria.
At another point, during related exercises, Hodges was told that his Black Hawk helicopter would have to divert from its intended route in order to clear customs in Romania. Ultimately, Hodges was able to avoid the stop.
While such passport and customs checks are typically routine and not hugely time-consuming, for Hodges they symbolize a tangle of bureaucracy that poses a risk to military speed and efficiency. In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has put up fences to block the flow of migrants, but Hodges said that across much of Europe travel is easier for migrants than for allied military.
“Actually, I wish that we could move across Europe as quickly as migrants do,” Hodges said.
“Of course, we should have to meet all the EU road laws, respect sovereignty, but it is a surprisingly cumbersome process in several countries to get permissions to move troops, weapons, ammunition, even just regular convoys,” Hodges said.
“I was naïve,” the general said, “I just assumed, well, these are all EU countries, or NATO countries, it should be like going from Florida to Virginia on I-95. And it’s absolutely not the case. So there’s just a variety of reasons in terms of diplomatic clearances, regulatory procedures, infrastructure.”
Hodges said that investments in military transport and infrastructure also provide a convenient way for NATO allies such as Germany to meet their pledge to increase defense spending in ways that would indisputably benefit the alliance as a whole.
BERLIN — It’s election time in Germany and, even in this digital age, the parties are still investing in an old classic of political propaganda — the campaign poster.
The Social Democrats — seeking to oust Chancellor Angela Merkel in the September 24 election but trailing badly in the polls — unveiled a series of billboards this week, focusing on their key theme of social justice.
Those rather bland efforts seem unlikely to make the pantheon of great election imagery. By way of contrast, here are some of the most striking, influential and iconic German political posters — going all the way back to the early days of the Federal Republic — as well as a selection from the current campaign.
CDU, 1949: In his 14 years as chancellor, Konrad Adenauer of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) grounded the newly founded republic firmly in the West and presided over a postwar economic boom. In the 1949 election, Adenauer campaigned “for peace, freedom and unity.” The “unity” part of the slogan referred to the unification of East and West Germany, but could also be understood as a claim to Germany’s 1937 borders — including large parts of modern-day Poland and even Russia.

CDU, 1953: “All paths of Marxism lead to Moscow!” Adenauer was fervently anti-communist, and CDU ads like this 1953 poster skillfully blurred the line between Marxists and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD).

CDU, 1957: One of the most iconic campaign slogans in Germany’s postwar history, Adenauer’s 1957 “No experiments!” warned voters not to put stability and prosperity at risk by straying from the tried-and-tested … and helped Adenauer become the only candidate to have won an absolute majority in the Bundestag.

SPD, 1969: “So you can live in peace tomorrow, too.” In 1969, the Cold War continued to shape and shake German politics. Social Democrat Willy Brandt’s victory in this election signaled an era of change: Brandt maintained West Germany’s close alignment with the U.S. but his “Ostpolitik” (Eastern policy) led to a détente and renewal of relations with East Germany and the Soviet Union.

The Greens, 1980: Formed in 1980 from a collection of environmentalist and pacifist movements, the Greens’ pitch read: “ecological, social, grassroots, non-violent.” Three years later, the party entered the Bundestag as an irreverent anti-establishment movement, complete with long beards and knitted cardigans.

SPD, 1980: “Security for Germany.” Unlike most Social Democrats, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt (1976-1982) was seen as strong on security due to his hard-line stance against the leftist Red Army Faction terrorist group. 

CDU, 1994: “Safely into the future.” Thanks in part to his pivotal role in German reunification, Helmut Kohl (1982-1998) was still popular even as he approached his fourth and final term as chancellor. As hinted at by the display of both German and EU flags, Kohl was also an important architect of European integration.

SPD, 2002: To this day, Gerhard Schröder (1998-2005) is still seen as one of the SPD’s savviest campaigners. Schröder successfully cast himself as “the chancellor of the center” — a modern and moderate Social Democrat in the mould of Tony Blair.

CDU, 2013:  After eight years with Merkel as their chancellor, Germans had become so accustomed to her trademark diamond-shaped hand gesture that the CDU put it on a giant billboard. The image is made up of a mosaic of faces — and stands alongside another billboard with the slogan “Germany’s future in good hands.”

DIE LINKE, 2010: “Let’s get out of Afghanistan!” The far-left party has traditionally gone with pictureless billboards. Large, snappy slogans in a format reminiscent of tabloid headlines proclaim their policies — such as in this regional election poster stressing their opposition to German military operations abroad.

Alternative for Germany, 2017: Founded as an anti-euro party during the sovereign debt crisis, the Alternative for Germany (AfD) has since moved on to populist, anti-immigrant themes. One of the party’s posters for this year’s campaign reads: “Burqas? I’m more of a Burgundy type.” Several regional AfD groups have rejected the posters as ridiculous, a symptom of the deep internal rifts that have plagued the party of late.

Free Democrats, 2017: “Impatience is also a virtue.” Often a kingmaker in German politics, the liberal and business-friendly Free Democratic Party (FDP) received an existential shock when it failed to get the 5 percent of the vote needed to enter parliament in 2013. This year, the party looks poised to return to the Bundestag with a billboard campaign that seeks to make the most of the party’s photogenic leader, Christian Lindner.

CDU, 2017: In June, the CDU’s General Secretary Peter Tauber unveiled his party’s posters for this year’s election, starting with a commitment to European integration (“Strengthening Europe means strengthening Germany”). The domestic feel-good slogan “For a Germany in which we live well and happily” was accompanied by the hashtag #fedidwgugl (its German acronym), which has inexplicably failed to catch on.

SPD, 2017: “The future needs new ideas. And someone to push them through.” The SPD’s Hubertus Heil and Juliane Seifert unveiled their party’s billboards in Berlin on Tuesday. Besides portraits of party leader Martin Schulz, the posters focus on key SPD policies, calling for more social justice, education and investment.

Special counsel Robert Mueller has impaneled a Washington grand jury for his Russia investigation, a key procedural step as he looks into potential collusion between U.S. President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign and Russia, said two sources familiar with the investigation.
The sources said Mueller was now leaning on a closed-door panel housed at the federal courthouse on Constitution Avenue — just blocks from FBI headquarters and the Capitol — to present evidence and issue subpoenas as part of his expanding probe.
Mueller’s spokesman declined to comment. A top Trump White House lawyer told reporters he wasn’t aware of the move.
“Grand jury matters are typically secret,” Ty Cobb, who started this week as Trump’s new special counsel, said in a statement released to reporters by White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
“The White House favors anything that accelerates the conclusion of his work fairly,” Cobb said, noting the White House is “committed to fully cooperating” with Mueller.
This isn’t the first grand jury tied to the Russia probe. With Mueller’s appointment in May, he inherited the work that federal prosecutors had already done with a grand jury in Alexandria, Va., related to the FBI’s ongoing investigation into former White House National Security Adviser Michael Flynn over his foreign lobbying disclosures and contacts with Russian officials prior to the January inauguration.
Mueller’s probe — which now includes 16 attorneys — is covering a wide range of issues related to the 2016 election, including financial ties between Russia, Trump and his business partners; the hacks into the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, John Podesta; and Trump’s decision in May to fire FBI Director James Comey.
A former Justice Department official said Mueller’s use of a Washington grand jury is a strong signal the Russia probe has more than one line of inquiry cooking.
“It suggests he’s got multiple work streams going on and wants to do a higher volume than if they’re just using Virginia,” the former DOJ source said.
Mueller, a former George W. Bush-appointed FBI director, and his team of experienced lawyers, including Deputy Solicitor General Michael Dreeben, are also familiar with Washington courts, and their use of a local jury also makes sense “as a matter of convenience,” the source said.
“Logistically, it’s a whole lot easier getting from the Mall to federal court in Washington,” the source said. “They’re three blocks away as opposed to five miles away to get to Alexandria.”
WARSAW — European Council President Donald Tusk questioned Poland’s future in the European Union in harsh remarks Thursday about his home country’s government.
Poland is locked in several disputes with Brussels, including over the Polish authorities’ insistence on allowing trees to be cut down in the Białowieża forest, despite a European Court of Justice order.
“The fact that a European tribunal decision is rejected so arrogantly is evidence of something very dangerous in my opinion — it is an overt attempt to put Poland in conflict with the European Union,” Tusk, a former prime minister, said in Warsaw.
“It smells like an introduction to an announcement that Poland does not need the European Union and that Poland is not needed for the EU,” he said, adding, “I am afraid we are closer to that moment.”
A visibly agitated Tusk warned about what he described as Poland’s weakening position within the bloc. While Tusk’s role is that of a European politician, the current Polish government’s conflict with Brussels over rule of law issues has put him in an uncomfortable position.
“There are several issues where the behavior of the Polish government appears to be very controversial,” he said. “This is how the whole EU sees it and that sometimes even includes Budapest — yes, I mean it” — a reference to Poland’s ally, Hungary.
Tusk spoke to reporters in Warsaw after eight hours of questioning at the Polish prosecutor’s office. The former prime minister was summoned to respond to allegations that his government was negligent in its handling of the investigation into a 2010 plane crash that killed many high-ranking Polish officials, including then-president Lech Kaczyński.
Jarosław Kaczyński, the head of the ruling Law and Justice party and the de facto leader of Poland, has painted Tusk as partly responsible for his twin brother Lech’s death. At the same time, Kaczyński now sees Tusk as a potential rival: Tusk will end his term as Council president in 2019, and will be free to run in Poland’s presidential election a few months later.
But Tusk was noncommittal about his future plans.
”I have over two years of work in Brussels,” he said. “I am not able to answer that today but everything is possible. For the moment I don’t plan it.”
He also indicated that he believes he was summoned to testify for political reasons.
“Mr. Kaczyński will not manage to frighten me,” he said to cheers from a few dozen supporters outside the prosecutor’s building. “Neither the prosecutor, nor any other method of teasing me will help him do it.”
He said he expected more questioning in the future and did not exclude the possibility that he would one day testify as a suspect rather than as a witness.
The government is Warsaw sees the judiciary “as a tool against the opposition. And indeed against people they don’t like — I am afraid I belong to this bunch,” he said.
The United States Senate on Thursday confirmed dozens of presidential appointments to senior positions, including three ambassadors who will be based in Europe.
Former Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas will be the U.S. ambassador to NATO, the Senate said in a statement.
Hutchison, 73, served in the Senate for 20 years until she decided not to run in 2012.
Another choice of President Donald Trump, Richard Wood Johnson IV — known as Woody — a longtime supporter of the Republican Party, was confirmed as the ambassador to the U.K.
Johnson, whose father was president of pharma giant Johnson & Johnson, was a supporter of Jeb Bush in the race for the White House but switched allegiance to Trump in May 2016 and became a major fundraiser for the tycoon in the final stretch of the election campaign. He is the owner of the New York Jets American football team.
George Edward Glass will be be ambassador to Portugal. Glass is owner of a firm in Oregon which purchases and operates apartment complexes and rental homes, and a Republican donor. According to the Portuguese American Journal, Glass “visited Portugal once.”
Lewis Eisenberg, a financier, was confirmed as envoy to Italy and San Marino.
On Wednesday, Trump withdrew his nomination of Jamie McCourt, a campaign donor and former owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team, to be ambassador to Belgium and resubmitted her name to the Senate to be envoy to France and Monaco instead. That choice was not confirmed on Thursday.
To listen to the podcast now, click on the player below or click here to get it on iTunes.

This week Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the former NATO secretary-general and now an adviser to Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, sets out his views on how the EU should deal with Russia. He also talks about NATO, defense spending, Trump… and why (and where) we should spend our holidays in Denmark.
David Herszenhorn, POLITICO’s chief Brussels correspondent, talks us through the latest developments in Ukraine and offers an early preview of next year’s Russian presidential election.
In “EU WTF,” our Brussels brains trust, Lina Aburous and Ailbhe Finn, discuss the case of Andreas Georgiou, the Greek statistician who convicted for telling the truth about the state of the Greek economy.
And for the Dear Politico advice session, we hear from an NGO worker whose organization is allegedly misusing EU funds.
The number of migrants crossing the Mediterranean to reach Italian shores dropped significantly in July, according to new figures.
Data from the Italian interior ministry shows that about 11,100 migrants made the dangerous crossing in July compared to more than double that amount in the same month in 2016 (just over 23,500).
Indications of a change in migration patterns continued in the first days of August. Statistics released by the ministry Thursday indicate that between January and the first two days of August about 95,200 people crossed from Libya to Italy, compared to 98,500 over the same period last year — a 3.42 percent drop.
“It’s too early to say that we have won the battle,” warned a top migration official at the interior ministry. “But it’s a very encouraging sign and at sea right now we have only about 400 migrants to rescue, which is a reasonable number. It means this trend could last,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The new numbers contrast significantly with earlier data.
“Never before had detections been so high in the Central Mediterranean,” wrote Frontex, the EU’s border agency, in its risk analysis for 2017, adding that the route saw an 18 percent increase in migration flows in 2016.
In June, Interior Minister Marco Minniti sounded the alarm over migration, prompting the European Commission to draw up an “action plan” for the Central Mediterranean route. Some Italian officials also accused NGOs that conduct search-and-rescue missions in the Mediterranean of colluding with smugglers, while Rome drew up a new code of conduct for civil society organizations operating at sea. Only a few NGOs have accepted the rules and on Wednesday Italian authorities seized a ship operated by German NGO Jugend Rettet on suspicion that the vessel was being used “for activities facilitating illegal immigration.”
Italian officials had been bracing for an increase this year, following a record 180,000 arrivals in 2016.
But the Italian interior ministry’s surprising new figures are not the only indication that fewer migrants are opting to make the dangerous journey to Europe.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) wrote that July’s figures highlighted “a trend” it “has observed of slower traffic to Italy during mid-summer, and fewer deaths (approximately half of those recorded in July 2015 and 2016).”
The reasons behind the summer decline remain disputed.
“Since the start of the year there is a decrease of people crossing into Libya from Niger,” said Eugenio Ambrosi, EU director at the IOM. That’s the result of several factors, he said, from better information for those planning to migrate to deals with Niger on fighting people-smuggling.
“The impression is that the stock of those who want to leave Libya is running out,” he said, adding that only 20 percent of the migrants who reach Libya try to cross into Europe.
Despite Libya’s political turmoil, the country — which has the largest oil reserves in Africa — still attracts workers from other countries: for example, more than half a million Egyptians work in Libya.
The EU has also pushed for greater efforts to facilitate voluntary returns from Libya, a figure that stands at over 6,000 so far this year compared to 2,700 in the whole of 2016. European institutions have also disbursed millions of euros in funding for African countries.
In Rome, officials identify cooperation with the Libyan coast guard as one of the main reasons why there are fewer arrivals. In recent weeks, the coast guard turned back 10,000 people.
Officials also point to a recent border protection agreement with local tribal heads in Fezzan, a desert region in southeastern Libya that served as a transit area for 160,000 people last year.
The Italians and the EU are not the only ones trying to work with the Libyans. French President Emmanuel Macron stepped up his involvement over the past week by brokering a fragile peace deal between Libya’s warring factions.
And Rome is preparing for more proactive involvement in the area: on Wednesday, the Italian parliament approved plans for a new military mission in the Mediterranean, including in Libyan waters. But in an interview with an Italian daily on Thursday, Egypt-backed Libyan strongman Khalifa Haftar threatened to bomb Italian vessels, a warning Italian officials dismissed as “propaganda.”
Rome’s arrangements with African leaders have drawn criticism from human rights groups.
“After years of saving lives at sea, Italy is preparing to help Libyan forces who are known to detain people in conditions that expose them to a real risk of torture, sexual violence and forced labor,” Judith Sunderland, associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement.
The U.N. has also often raised concerns about conditions at detention camps for migrants. Ambrosi of the IOM said the challenge was to avoid “the paradox of rescuing people at sea to then let them die on the land.”
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump blamed Congress on Thursday for deteriorating America’s relationship with Russia to what he deemed is an “all-time” and “very dangerous low.”
“Our relationship with Russia is at an all-time & very dangerous low,” the president tweeted Thursday morning. “You can thank Congress, the same people that can’t even give us HCare!”
The House and Senate passed a bill with overwhelming majorities that sanctions Russia for meddling in the 2016 election. It also limits the president’s authority to lift sanctions without congressional approval.
Trump signed the bill on Wednesday but blasted the legislation in a pair of signing statements. The president said the “flawed bill” has “a number of clearly unconstitutional provisions.”
“The bill remains seriously flawed — particularly because it encroaches on the executive branch’s authority to negotiate. Congress could not even negotiate a health care bill after seven years of talking,” Trump said.
“I built a truly great company worth many billions of dollars. That is a big part of the reason I was elected,” he added. “As President, I can make far better deals with foreign countries than Congress.”
French President Emmanuel Macron weighed in on the protracted transfer saga of Brazilian football star Neymar from Barcelona to Paris Saint-Germain, the Associated Press reported Thursday.
Macron met PSG’s president Nasser al-Khaleifi — a Qatari businessman who bought the club in 2011 — on the sidelines of a charity event and told him: “Congratulations, I understand there’s been some good news,” referring to Neymar’s impending arrival in France.
The French minister for public accounts, Gérald Darmanin, also anticipated the Brazilian captain’s arrival in France. Darmanin told France Inter radio: “If Neymar does come to a French club, the minister of public accounts welcomes the taxes that he could be paying to France.”
Neymar is set to become the most expensive footballer in history, with Paris Saint-German expected to pay €222 million to invoke his buyout clause at Barcelona. That would more than double the current highest transfer fee, €105 million, paid by Manchester United for French midfielder Paul Pogba to the Turin club Juventus last year.
Martin Schulz, the German Social Democrats’ candidate for chancellor, dismissed accusations that he’s too much of a newcomer to win the biggest prize in German politics.
“It is always framed as if I came flying in as chancellor candidate like an alien,” the former president of the European Parliament told Der Spiegel in an interview. “But I do know Germany inside out.”
Schulz also used the interview to attack his rival for chancellor, Angela Merkel.
“A chancellor not telling her voters what she has planned neglects its duties — and threatens the future of the country,” he said ahead of elections in September.
“I have to make better suggestions for the future of the country,” Schulz said. “This is not that hard: the incumbent holder of the office doesn’t make any.”
Asked about U.S. President Donald Trump, Schulz criticized him for practicing “ruthless nepotism.” Having warned of the dangers Trump posed before the U.S. election, the Social Democrat said “it has turned out even worse” than he expected.
The attacks on Merkel have been a feature of Schulz’s campaign of late, as has depicting himself as the person to deal with migration. Merkel’s Christian Democrats hold a double-digit lead over Schulz’s Social Democrats, according to opinion polls from late last month.
President Donald Trump expressed adoration for the White House late Wednesday as he pushed back against reports that he had called his new residence “a real dump.”
In an article that will appear in Monday’s edition of Sports Illustrated, Golf Magazine reported this week that the president told some members of Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey, before a recent round of golf that he frequents the club because “that White House is a real dump.”
The president’s reported comments were amplified by other media outlets who seized on that portion of Golf Magazine’s article. Trump, however, disputed the reporting, as he often does.
“I love the White House, one of the most beautiful buildings (homes) I have ever seen,” Trump tweeted. “But Fake News said I called it a dump – TOTALLY UNTRUE.”
The tweet is a reversal of sorts for Trump, who has praised Golf Magazine in the past for giving his courses high rankings.
“Wow, @GolfMagazine just rated the renovation of The Blue Monster the best of the year. Even better they stated it may be best of all time!” Trump tweeted on Dec. 8, 2014.
“Thank you @GolfMagazine for your fantastic review of The Blue Monster at Trump National Doral – ‘BEST U.S. RESORT RENOVATION’ – & ‘ALL TIME,’” he added minutes later.
Ironically, less than 10 minutes after that tweet posted, Trump had retweeted a user who replied to @realDonaldTrump and @GolfMagazine: “TRUMP FOR PRESIDENT!”
WASHINGTON — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, have hired Democratic pollster Joel Benenson, a former top adviser to President Barack Obama and the chief strategist to Hillary Clinton’s failed 2016 presidential campaign, as a consultant, according to a person familiar with the hire.
Benenson’s company, Benenson Strategy Group, will be conducting research for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, the couple’s philanthropy. The organization — whose mission statement, according to its website, is “advancing human potential and promoting equality” — is endowed with the couple’s Facebook fortune.
Zuckerberg and Chan have vowed to give away 99 percent of their Facebook shares, worth an estimated $45 billion, to charity. Bringing on Benenson is the latest sign that they’re pushing their philanthropic work more heavily into the political and policy world.
In January, the couple hired David Plouffe, campaign manager for Obama’s 2008 presidential run, as president of policy and advocacy. Plouffe had previously worked at Uber. Ken Mehlman, who ran President George W. Bush’s 2004 reelection campaign, also sits on the board.
And earlier this year, the couple also brought on Amy Dudley, a former communications adviser to Virginia Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine.
Benenson’s involvement in the group gives them access to someone who was one of the top lieutenants of Clinton’s doomed campaign and Obama’s longtime pollster, just as speculation about Zuckerberg’s political ambitions is mounting.
Benenson did not respond to a request for comment. A spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said: “As a philanthropic organization focused on a number of substantive issues including science, education, housing, and criminal justice reform, any research efforts we undertake is to support that work.”
Even though he has said he has no interest in running for office, Zuckerberg’s name – along with just about every other billionaire or elected official with half the name recognition of a second-tier Trump adviser – has been floated as a potential 2020 presidential candidate.
Zuckerberg, 33, stirred the speculation in June when he posted pictures of his road trip through Iowa, the first state to caucus in the primaries, as part of the tech entrepreneur’s year-long project to visit every U.S. state. He has also toured a Ford assembly plant outside Detroit, a key city in the critical Rust Belt state that Clinton lost to Trump; and Dayton, Ohio, the state long considered an election bellwether.
“Some of you have asked if this challenge means I’m running for public office,” Zuckerberg wrote on his Facebook page last May. “I’m not.”
Even before his is-he-or-isn’t-he road trip, Zuckerberg had shown an interest in politics and social issues. In 2010, he announced during an appearance on “Oprah” that he was donating $100 million to help fix the Newark City public school system. The influx of Facebook cash, however, didn’t generate the desired results, and the gift became a nationally-recognized failure of good intentions.
But the hiring of Benenson is sure to fuel speculation that Zuckerberg is getting more serious about how he plays in the political and policy worlds.
Speculation, however, may be the beginning and the end of the Zuckerberg for President story.
The Benenson Strategy Group does work for many non-profit groups, including AARP, the American Civil Liberties Union, and Lady Gaga’s Born This Way Foundation.
On July 27, for instance, Gaga tweeted a link to a research study on youth mental wellness that she commissioned from Benenson’s company. The survey, according to Gaga’s Twitter post, included “over 3,000 young people between the ages 15-24 and over 1,000 parents, asking questions about mental health and wellness.”
German front pages focussed on the outcome of Wednesday’s diesel summit, where federal and regional governments agreed with car manufacturers that the industry would cut emissions by paying for software upgrades in more than 5 million cars. Die Welt and FAZ quoted Federal Minister of Transport Alexander Dobrindt from the Christian Social Union, Bavarian sister party of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, who said he saw a “a sensible basis” for the reduction of emissions.
FAZ also reported on a diplomatic row between Germany and Vietnam. The spat was sparked by claims the Vietnamese secret service kidnapped a former official of Vietnam’s Communist Party in Berlin and returned him to the Southeast Asian country. German authorities are investigating the case.


The number of French households with an income above €100,000 has increased significantly compared to last year, Les Echos reported based on data from the tax authorities. The data also showed some 6,400 people had an income of more than €1 million, accounting for € 3.7 billion in tax revenues, or 5.4 percent of total taxes collected.
Le Monde’s front page featured a story on the eurozone’s economic growth 10 years after the start of the financial crisis. Gross domestic product in euro countries grew by 0.6 percent in the second quarter of this year, according to Eurostat figures. French GDP grew by 0.5 percent over the period, Austria grew 0.8 percent and Spain 0.9. The paper quoted Thibault Mercier, a eurozone specialist at BNP Paribas: “Nobody expected such a performance a year ago, with the prospect of Brexit and the rise of populism in politics.”


The Times’ front page focussed on the construction of so-called pollution tunnels to cover motorways in a bid to protect nearby homes and improve air quality. The paper noted opponents warn the plan risks trapping emissions in an enclosed area and making air quality worse for drivers. The paper also reported on a watchdog’s warning that Whitehall’s “addiction to secrecy” was getting worse. The Advisory Council on National Records and Archives accused the government of censorship after civil servants refused to release a record number of historic sensitive documents for public access.
The Guardian reported on a coroner’s finding that a British man who fought ISIS as a volunteer died a hero when he turned his weapon on himself after being surrounded by enemy troops.

Food safety concerns were Dutch papers’ top story after news emerged that health authority NVWA failed to act swiftly after discovering contaminated eggs. Investigators found traces of a harmful agent in eggs, leading to the temporary closure of 200 poultry farms. Both AD and De Telegraaf ran stories questioning the food industry’s influence.

France jumped the queue for a new U.S. ambassador; Belgium will have to wait.
Without explanation, U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday withdrew his nomination of Jamie McCourt, a campaign donor and former owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team, to be ambassador to Belgium and resubmitted her name to the Senate to be envoy to France and Monaco instead.
While the White House declined immediate requests for comments about the change, Trump has forged a closer relationship with French President Emmanuel Macron than perhaps any other European leader, as evidenced during a visit to Paris last month where Trump attended Bastille Day festivities. On that trip, Trump and his wife Melania dined with Macron and his wife Brigitte at the Eiffel Tower.
The Trump administration has lagged in naming ambassadors to important posts and the Republican-controlled Senate has dragged in confirming those nominees, like McCourt, who Trump has put forward, largely because of Democratic opposition.
Trump, for instance, has still not chosen an ambassador to the EU. In other cases, like Germany, the White House has identified a candidate — Richard Grenell — but Trump has not made a nomination.
The switch in posts for McCourt will likely delay her confirmation further as each ambassadorial nominee must go through a hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where questions are posed about the specific diplomatic assignment.
Several nominees are expected to be confirmed in the next few days before the Senate leaves for its August recess, but it’s still not clear how many ambassadors will be among them.
New White House chief of staff John Kelly assured Attorney General Jeff Sessions his job was safe in a weekend phone call, Trump administration officials said.
The call, which was first reported by the Associated Press, occurred over the weekend. Kelly took the job Friday.
The officials said Kelly told Sessions to keep up his initiatives at the department and that Trump’s disappointment wouldn’t lead to his firing, as Trump has occasionally suggested. The call showed that Kelly sees himself as an empowered chief of staff, but Trump could surely change his mind, associates said.
Trump remains angry at Sessions for recusing himself from the probe involving the president’s campaign and potential Russian collusion.
At times last month, Trump was slamming Sessions daily on Twitter. However, the president has offered no public criticism of the attorney general for about a week.
The men were face to face with one another on Monday at the first Cabinet meeting since Kelly took over the job of running the White House.
Sessions, an early campaign supporter, has been on the outs with Trump for several months, even as the two men largely agree on policy. The Alabama law enforcement official has said he was stung by the criticisms from his boss, which have come on Twitter and in news interviews.
Tara Palmeri contributed to this report.
When new White House chief of staff John Kelly huddled with senior staff on his first day at work, he outlined a key problem in U.S. President Donald Trump’s White House that he planned to fix: Bad information getting into the president’s hands.
Kelly told the staff that information needed to flow through him — whether on paper or in briefings — because the president would make better decisions if given good information.
Kelly, a retired Marine general, faces an uphill path when it comes to his stated goal of instilling order in the White House, from aides who have directly reported to the president and don’t want to see their power curbed to Trump’s own itchy Twitter finger. In talks with congressional leaders, friends and longtime associates, he has bluntly described how serious the problems he faces in the West Wing are, according to more than a half-dozen people familiar with the conversations.
“John Kelly knows the challenges he is facing,” said Leon Panetta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton who spoke to Kelly after he took the job. “He’s not going to just stand to the side and watch the White House fall apart piece by piece.”
But several people who have spoken with him say Kelly believes that making sure Trump is getting good information is among the biggest challenges he faces as he takes over from Reince Priebus, the former Republican National Committee chairman who was dismissed by the president last week.
Since starting this week, Kelly has told aides that anyone briefing the president needs to show him the information first. The Trump West Wing tradition of aides dropping off articles on the president’s desk — then waiting for him to react, with a screaming phone call or a hastily scheduled staff meeting, must stop. He will not accept aides walking into the Oval Office and telling the president information without permission — or without the information being vetted.
“He basically said, ‘The president has to get good briefings, he has to get good intelligence,’” one senior White House official said. “We have to be putting him in a position to make good decisions.”
In the West Wing, many of the president’s most controversial decisions have been attributed to bad information, partially because the president is easily swayed by the last person he has talked to — or the last thing he has read.
For example, he accused President Barack Obama of tapping his phone line in Trump Tower after seeing comments from a conservative talk show host and a Breitbart News article. He has often posted some of his most controversial tweets while watching Fox News and stewing. He has sometimes seemed to view television accounts of the news as fact more than information from people armed with classified information. He has made decisions about legal matters or major policy decisions while consulting with some aides — only to reverse them after talking to family members or friends, who he dials late at night.
He has been given information of dubious quality, from stories by GotNews.com, a blog written by a right-wing provocateur named Chuck Johnson to segments of debunked documentaries. He has, at times, listened to real estate friends about legislative strategy while ignoring Speaker Paul Ryan or Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
By limiting information, and making it go through proper channels, Kelly is “ensuring Trump doesn’t make his decisions based on some bullshit he watched at midnight or on Breitbart,” said Chris Whipple, who recently wrote a book on the chief-of-staff role.
A White House spokeswoman didn’t respond to a request for comment.
Kelly and senior West Wing officials don’t believe Trump will fully change. He is not going to stop tweeting, for example, and they expect him to keep dialing old friends in New York after hours — and that he will likely huddle with aides when Kelly is not around. Senior officials are likely to still give him articles to read without Kelly knowing. “He’s not under the impression he can tell Donald Trump, ‘Oh, you’re going to do it my way,” one Kelly associate said. “He’s not delusional about it.”
But so far, Kelly has received some buy-in to creating more discipline. Aides were startled earlier this week to see Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter, at a senior staff meeting, two White House officials said. Both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, have agreed to the new order, people close to them say. Steve Bannon, the president’s strategist, has told others he thinks having a military-like chain-of-command will help the West Wing.
Aides have begun raising more issues with Kelly, several West Wing aides said, whereas they previously would avoid Priebus and go straight to the president. And Trump’s friends say he has expressed an optimistic tone on the phone, thinking the mood was improving.
“What we’ve seen in the past six months is a new president who has never governed and trying to adjust, and he is finding the right people for the right jobs,” said Chris Ruddy, a longtime friend. “Reince was not a manager. I think he had the president’s interests at heart, and he wanted him to succeed, but you can’t learn to be a manager of a complex organization, how to hire and fire people and develop strategy, in a matter of months.”
Panetta, who served as director of the CIA and secretary of defense under President Barack Obama, said he faced many similar issues when he became Clinton’s chief of staff in 1994. Warring aides and advisers were giving the president different messages. He would stay up late and talk with friends on the phone from Arkansas. “Too many people who didn’t have a portfolio were walking in and out of the Oval,” he said.
Panetta said he created a process by which the president would tell him about his conversations, and he would ask every person briefing the president to outline the options — and that he installed a more chain-of-command system where people knew who they were reporting to and what their responsibilities were. But there were still hiccups.
“While you’re trying to develop a policy process, and you’re trying to work with people who are knowledgeable, and the president is talking to whoever he likes and decides he’s going to tweet out something, that is a recipe for chaos,” Panetta said. “The success or failure of this administration is going to depend on whether the president actually gives John Kelly the power to do what he needs to do.”
Those close to Trump say time will tell whether Kelly can succeed. Trump sometimes sours on aides after several months, and the 71-year-old billionaire has enjoyed the freewheeling style that has proven problematic in the West Wing. “In private business, Donald Trump would often defer to his managers if they are capable and competent,” Ruddy said. “He had a team who was with him for decades. There wasn’t a lot of turnover.”
The European Union is in good shape, and that’s in part down to Jean-Claude Juncker, according to … Jean-Claude Juncker.
The European Commission president, one of the few people left in the Commission this week before he heads off on a summer break, told POLITICO that despite a challenging year, the bloc is in the mood to tackle any problems that come its way — including Brexit and Donald Trump.
“There is really nothing to complain about,” he said in his office on the 13th floor of the Commission’s Berlaymont headquarters. With recent figures showing economic growth and falling unemployment, and with the budget deficits of member countries decreasing, “there is something better to report than a year ago” and that’s “not dependent on my mood, but on facts.”
How big a share of the credit does the Commission get for that? It should be sizable, Juncker said, but in reality it’s “relatively small,” adding that he’s “too old, too experienced” to be bothered by national capitals claiming the credit and Brussels getting the blame.
That’s a pattern likely to be seen in the Brexit talks, and Juncker said he had every reason to believe that would be the case.
Brexit won’t be just an annoyance, he said, more of a headache. “People will become more and more conscious of the density of problems on a daily basis, without always being able to provide a coherent answer to these problems.”
But Juncker showed little support for the idea that the Brexit process could be reversed as the talks become fractious.
The Commission’s “working hypothesis” is that Brexit will happen, eventually. “I don’t go as far as the Maltese prime minister [Joseph Muscat] who has not ruled out that it will not come to Brexit,” Juncker said. “My working hypothesis is that it will come to Brexit.”
Speaking in German late on Tuesday afternoon, Juncker repeated what has become a mantra for EU leaders: that Brexit talks are in good hands with Michel Barnier, the bloc’s chief negotiator. That means Juncker only spends “as much time as it needs” on Brexit, without specifying a time, he said; his chief of staff Martin Selmayr in May said the Commission boss wouldn’t devote more than half an hour a week dealing with Brexit. Instead, Juncker said, he’s focused on “the EU’s positive agenda” such as “economic growth and investments, migration and security, the development of a common defense policy, and strengthening our trade relationships with Japan, Canada and Latin America.”
The Commission president didn’t hold back when it came to Donald Trump, saying that he had already “explained” to the U.S. president that he “should stop wishing for others to imitate the British” by leaving the bloc.
He also mocked Trump for the disorganized way in which he oversees the White House.
“It’s stunning,” Juncker said when asked about recent events in Washington, culminating in the firing of Anthony Scaramucci as comms director after just 10 days in the role.
“We are better organized than the Trump administration. That is because if there are any internal difficulties, those difficulties are fixed in a direct conversation instead of by firing people,” Juncker said, noting that he had no reason to fire anyone.
If the EU was falling to pieces, as Trump has claimed, “the western Balkans would lose the European perspective,” Juncker said in the interview.
“I’m not in favor of the western Balkans joining the EU soon,” Juncker said. “But if you take away the European perspective, then we will again experience what we experienced in the 1990s. In this respect, the stability of the composition of the European Union is a prerequisite for the Balkans not being at war again. I hope [Trump] understood that.”
He added that Trump hadn’t of late repeated his call for other EU members to leave the bloc.
Juncker said his track record since coming into office in 2014 helped him cope with the arrival of Trump and the U.K.’s decision to leave.
“If the Commission had not ensured that Greece was not expelled from the eurozone in 2015, the balance would be less good,” Juncker said. “At the time, I fought hard for the stability of the Eurogroup, in particular for Greece [against the wishes of German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble]. If I hadn’t done that, the eurozone would have decayed.”
Juncker did acknowledge that Europe faces problems, including with Poland and Hungary, which have refused to accept refugees under the EU’s relocation scheme and come under criticism from Brussels for allegedly undermining the rule of law. He took a tougher line with Warsaw — which will be “more lonely after Brexit” — than Budapest.
Asked about the difference between dealing with the Polish leadership and Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Juncker said: “Well, I’ve got a caring relationship with Orbán. We talk regularly, I see him regularly — even if it’s not always made public — because I think I do not want to lose Hungary.” He didn’t make the same pledge about Poland, or even mention it.
On the subject of noisy neighbors, Juncker said enlargement talks with Turkey should not be halted, on paper at least. That goes against the line taken by the European Parliament and by the government of Austria, both of which have called for an end to the stalled talks in the wake of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s crackdown on opponents.
“Turkey is our neighbor, we can’t simply let it slip into oblivion,” Juncker said. “I am not in favor of ending the accession talks with Turkey, which is a demand from the European Parliament.”
“But the fact is that Turkey is moving away from its self-imposed obligation to become a member of the European Union almost every minute. It’s not the European Union that joins Turkey, but it’s Turkey joining the European Union.”
Juncker heads off on vacation soon, to Austria. He’ll be taking books by Turkish Nobel Prize winner Orhan Pamuk (“difficult to read”) and a crime thriller “that talks about Trump, Clinton, Bush. And because I know these guys and don’t see them described accurately, I’ll write the author a letter.”
Also on the summer reading list will be “1913: The year before the storm,” by German writer Florian Illies, which Juncker has read before and recommended “to the young people here at the Commission.”
It’s a book “describing the situation in 1913 in a mood of peacefulness all over Europe. Then the war broke out. I can’t get rid of the thought that it can happen again. But because there is the European Union, it doesn’t need to happen.”
Viewed from Brussels, the U.K. seemed so ill-prepared in the early rounds of Brexit negotiations that some EU countries think it must be a trap.
While the EU’s negotiating team say they are unconcerned and prepared for anything — and that any disorganization on the London side comes from serious divisions in the British political class — some EU diplomats are growing alarmed. Trade attachés in particular who know their British colleagues as tough, canny negotiators are suspicious of the seemingly fickle and aimless procrastination from the British government.
The Brits’ chaotic early posture in the Brexit talks has left them wondering whether London is pulling some sort of deft ploy — a strategy of pretending not to have a strategy.
On the face of it, that looks unlikely. The inconclusive outcome of the June election and Prime Minister Theresa May’s resulting loss of authority muddied London’s stance on Brexit. Cabinet rows over the nature of a post-Brexit transition have played out in public, casting doubt on whether there is a settled government position on key issues such as migration and membership of the customs union.
But those, by and large, are issues for later in the Brexit talks. The suspicion among some in Brussels is that the lack of clarity at cabinet level is being used as cover during the early negotiating salvos.
“I think it’s tactics: They are playing for time on purpose,” one attaché from a Western EU country said, “under the pretext of chaos in London.”
“In September they’re going to swamp us with [position] papers on the fault lines — exactly the issues where they know we [the EU27 countries] are divided,” he warned.
His colleague from a Southern country, asked: “Do they have a strategy? Or are they playing a bluff with the European Union? … It could be a strategy because the British are always so organized.”
Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat expressed the same skepticism last week: “People who say the Brits don’t know what they are doing are wrong,” he told the Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant, “I have lived in Britain, I know the British mentality. A non-prepared British government official simply doesn’t exist.”
Jean-Paul Gauzès, who served as a French MEP from 2004 to 2014 and negotiated frequently with British counterparts as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, said that in his experience, U.K. officials pursued their goals with single-minded determination while keeping others off balance.
“The Brits are pragmatic and very concrete,” Gauzès said, adding: “The Brits never ask for clarity because the more ambiguous it is, the better it is.”
In negotiations on finance directives, Gauzès said: “Everybody would move except the British MEPs who would wait until the end of the process to say: ‘I will tell you how to say that in proper English.’ Their ‘proper English’ always meant in favor of British interests.”
One EU official said that it was just common sense not to underestimate the British. “Having seen the movie ‘Dunkirk‘ over the weekend, history might suggest that the British could turn disaster and disorganization around,” the official said.
If the Brits are faking, then among the potential scenarios, officials said, is a stall for time that would leave the EU side feeling pressured to agree to a future trade deal rather than allow a disorderly withdrawal.
“I think Ollie Robbins [the prime minister’s EU adviser and chief civil servant in the Brexit department] knows very well what he is doing,” the Western diplomat said. “He is telling Davis to wait … By the end of the year, the tables will have turned.”
Another strategy that some EU officials fear is an aggressive outreach by the U.K. to corporate executives in the EU27, particularly in countries with businesses that could be hard hit by Brexit. The fear is that the U.K. might win friends with an argument that Brussels has been overly focused on winning the initial negotiating battle over the U.K.’s Brexit bill to plug a budget hole, rather than focusing on securing a trade deal that would protect businesses for decades to come.
“They’ll say ‘we want to talk about trade, but the EU only wants to talk about money,”’ the western diplomat said.
Others on the EU side though said that given the clear evidence of real political divisions at the top of the ruling Conservative party in the U.K. such fears were unwarranted, even fantastical.
A seasoned EU diplomat said that if London had constructed an elaborate ruse to gain the upper hand in Brexit, it had fooled even the British negotiators. If it is indeed a mise en scène, this diplomat said: “It would be an extremely sophisticated one.”
And an EU official directly involved in the Brexit talks dismissed as unjustified “speculation” the idea that the U.K. is operating a hidden cunning plan. “It seems to me, based on what I read, there is no clarity on the direction in which they want to move and it’s very difficult to implement a negotiating strategy if you don’t have that clarity.”
This official did not rule out the possibility that London was preparing some sort of Brexit Trojan horse, but said it seemed highly unlikely. “Nobody underestimates the capability of British diplomats. British diplomacy has been admired not only in the EU but globally,” the official said. “The only ones who know the truth are the Brits themselves. Are they ready or are they trying to dance some very strange ballet that we don’t fully get?”
Irish Commissioner for Agriculture Phil Hogan summed up the feeling in Brussels when he told Ireland’s RTÉ Radio One Saturday that Britain’s approach to Brexit negotiations is beset by “inconsistency and lack of coordination” that “beggars belief.” Hogan warned that “it seems that the United Kingdom still have to come to terms with their negotiating mandate and this is happening at a time when the clock is ticking.”
A senior U.K. government official said that any perception of chaos or incompetence was false: “This idea that we’ve been sitting on our hands for the last year is just bollocks. We have been working extremely hard. What you will start to see over the next couple of months is the government setting out in public what has been happening in private.”
A second government aide said there would be a number of official position papers published in August before the next round of U.K.-EU negotiations, which are due to take place between August 28 and September 1 in Brussels. The papers will set out the government’s official position on a number of “core” elements of Brexit, the aide said.
Tom McTague and Maïa de La Baume contributed reporting.
Former Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond called U.S. Donald Trump a “nincompoop” for saying that Scottish independence would be “terrible,” the Scotsman reported Wednesday.
In the transcript of a Wall Street Journal interview with the American president obtained by POLITICO, Trump said: “Is Scotland going to go for the vote, by the way? You don’t see it. It would be terrible. They just went through hell.”
Much of Trump’s concerns about Scottish independence seemed to stem from golf.
“One little thing, what would they do with the British Open if they ever got out?” Trump asked. “They’d no longer have the British Open. Scotland. Keep it in Scotland.”
Salmond, who led the campaign ahead of the Scottish independence referendum in 2014 — and resigned after voters opted to remain part of the U.K. — responded by saying Trump was “a complete and utter nincompoop.”
“Donald Trump’s opposition to independence should seal the deal for the SNP [Scottish National Party] — and to do it on the basis of Scotland losing the ‘British Open’ is typical,” Salmond said, clarifying that the prestigious golf tournament is called The Open, not The British Open.
“The Grand Canyon is a minor crevice compared to the vast chasm of ignorance of that man,” the former MP said.
Trump and Salmond were once friends, but a spat over a wind farm ended that relationship.
In the WSJ interview, Trump also said: “You don’t hear the word Britain any more. It’s very interesting. It’s like, nope.”
Arlene Foster, the leader of Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, on Wednesday criticized Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar for “disrespecting” people who voted for Brexit.
On Monday, Varadkar said he still hoped the U.K. would remain in the EU, or at least in the single market. He also said: “Brexit is a British policy, not an Irish one.”
Responding to Varadkar’s comments, Foster said: “He may be hopeful, but that is disrespecting the will of the British people.”
“Of course Brexit is going to happen. We are leaving the European Union. I just hope the Republic of Ireland will continue, as they have been doing, to work constructively with Northern Ireland … as it’s very much in their interest to have a Brexit that works for them.”
Varadkar is scheduled to meet Foster on Friday in Northern Ireland, his first trip there since becoming Irish PM last month.
Conventional wisdom holds that the present situation in Washington is unprecedented. The hyper-partisanship, the dysfunctional administration, the accusations of conflicts of interests, the embattled and erratic White House and the president’s reliance on a small circle of trusted insiders, first and foremost his family, have stunned Washington and much of the country and the world. But veteran Russia-watchers have seen this before. They remember Russia in the 1990s.
The president, Boris Yeltsin, a charismatic figure often unable to control his impulses, was a prisoner of the Kremlin, or his out-of-town residence near Moscow. A heavy drinker, he was frequently reported to be unable to perform the duties of his office. He ended up relying on a small group of advisers who became known in Moscow as “the family.” At the center of it was his immediate family, who controlled access to him and his flow of information. First daughter Tatyana was his chief advisor and gate-keeper. Yeltsin’s press spokesman Valentin Yumashev, who later married Tatyana and became Yeltsin’s chief of staff, was another key figure in the “family.” At one time or another, members of the “family” were reported to be under investigation by various Russian law enforcement agencies on suspicion of corruption. None ever went to trial, but allegations of corruption and ethical violations by those closest to Yeltsin became virtually an everyday feature of Russian political life, and in 1999 Yeltsin sacked the man in charge of the investigation.
The cabinet of ministers led by the prime minister was nominally in charge of the economy. However, real economic power was concentrated in the hands of seven bankers who had used their ties to the Kremlin to amass vast fortunes in the course of the privatization campaign. Together they were reported to control as much as half of the Russian economy. They also controlled major media outlets and used them liberally to promote their business interests, to attack each other, or to support or undercut the Kremlin, depending on whether its policies fit their preferences. Fake news proliferated as a weapon in political and business struggles. When circumstances warranted, some of these oligarchs became government officials and were rewarded for their service—usually not very long—with tax breaks or other benefits for their businesses.
The legislature—the Duma—was rendered dysfunctional by a combination of partisan politics and a new Russian constitution that greatly enhanced the power of the presidency. After the fall of the Soviet Union, competitive elections greatly increased the role of money in political campaigns in an environment marked by few established rules of conduct and legal norms. As a result, many deputies and parliamentary factions became beholden to big money interests. With the Duma unable to legislate, the Kremlin ruled the country by presidential decrees—executive orders—often rumored to be the handiwork of “the family.”
The courts, nominally independent, never really recovered from the blow they suffered during the October 1993 constitutional crisis, when Yeltsin shut down the Constitutional Court and used military force to disband the Supreme Soviet, the Duma’s predecessor. Lacking a tradition of judicial independence, the courts in Russia have never acquired the role of a full-fledged third branch of the Russian government, and in a Kremlin-dominated system slipped into irrelevance.
With Moscow consumed by palace intrigue, the rest of the country could not, would not wait for “the family” to act. Regional governors took matters in their own hands. None followed Chechnya’s lead to fight a war of independence, but some, such as Tatarstan’s leader Mintimer Shaymiyev or Kalmykia’s Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, turned their provinces into virtual fiefdoms largely outside of Moscow’s control.
Economic ruin, shattered confidence and political dysfunction were the country’s inheritance at the end of the Yeltsin decade. Russians were sick, depressed and humiliated. Western media declared boldly that “Russia is finished.”
Then along came Vladimir Putin, a former KGB officer hand-picked by “the family,” a reliable successor to Yeltsin who would protect its interests. He promised to make Russia great again and promptly restarted the “small victorious war” in Chechnya to boost the country’s sagging morale. He warned the oligarchs to stay out of politics; those who did not went to prison or exile. He reined in the media. He put the governors in their place. He kept his word to “the family” and protected it, but moved it aside and replaced it with his own clan—the “siloviki”—drawn mostly from the intelligence community and law enforcement.
Throughout the tumult of ‘90s Russia, the thought that something like that could happen in the United States was far from the minds of Russia-watchers or Americans in general. The conventional wisdom held that this country’s institutions were strong, its democracy, its economy, its medicine, its education, its military were the envy of the world. The United States is not like the Soviet Union or Russia. But everything there changed rapidly and with no warning, and nobody had expected or predicted it. After a decade of turmoil, Russians welcomed Putin as the strong leader they hoped would save their country from itself.
Eugene Rumer is director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
U.S. Vice President Mike Pence said Wednesday that the future of the Western Balkans lies “in the West.”
Pence was in Podgorica, Montenegro to deliver a speech at the Adriatic Charter Summit as part of a European tour. He reiterated Washington’s commitment to the region and said Balkan states must be “resolute and uncompromising” toward Russia, which he called “an unpredictable country that casts a shadow from the East.”
“Russia continues to seek to redraw international borders by force and, here in the Western Balkans, Russia has worked to destabilize the region, undermine democracies and divide you from each other and from the rest of Europe,” Pence told the summit, attended by leaders of Montenegro, Croatia, Albania and Slovenia, all NATO members, as well as Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia and Kosovo.
Pence also met with Montenegrin Prime Minister Duško Marković, whom he told: “We truly believe the future of the Western Balkans is in the West.”
“Montenegro is committed to the West and its system of values, and it can count on the full support of the United States,” Pence said, according to the Montenegrin government’s website.
President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a bipartisan bill placing new sanctions on Russia, a White House official said.
The White House had indicated that Trump was likely to sign the bill into law, but they had raised concerns about its restrictions on his ability to lift sanctions on Moscow. The White House official said a signing statement would be released Wednesday. Such statements typically share the president’s views or interpretation of legislation.
The European Commission said Wednesday it is considering a “whole range of actions” against Venezuela, after two opposition leaders were taken from their homes and put in prison.
“Consultations with member states are ongoing to ensure an appropriate and coordinated response by the EU,” a Commission spokeswoman said during a press briefing. “Obviously the whole range of actions is discussed.”
On Tuesday, European Parliament President Antonio Tajani sent a letter to fellow EU leaders Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker demanding asset freezes and travel bans for Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and his “entourage.”
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy on Wednesday also called on the EU to impose a travel ban on officials connected to the Maduro regime.
Weeks of violent anti-government protests prompted Maduro to organize a vote last weekend to elect a body tasked with rewriting the country’s constitution.
Turn-out numbers for Sunday’s referendum were “tampered with,” the boss of the company that ran the voting claimed on Wednesday, the BBC reported.
BERLIN — Economy Minister Brigitte Zypries used incorrect information to argue against a future ban on petrol and diesel cars in Germany, one of the country’s most renowned automobile experts said.
“Either she doesn’t know better — or she is aware that [she used] wrong facts to consciously influence politics,” Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor of automotive economics and the director of the Center Automotive Research (CAR) at the University of Duisburg-Essen, said.
In a newspaper interview last weekend, Zypries, a Social Democrat, claimed that it was “neither practical nor effective” for Germany to follow the example of the United Kingdom and France, which both recently announced plans to ban sales of gasoline and diesel-fueled cars by 2040.
“While in England hardly any cars are being built anymore, Germany is one of the greatest automobile manufacturing nations in the world,” she said, adding that more than a million jobs depended on the sector.
“That’s fake news,” Dudenhöffer told POLITICO this week, referring to the minister’s claim about car manufacturing in the U.K. In fact, Britain produced more than 1.7 million cars last year — equivalent to almost a third of Germany’s output, Dudenhöffer said. He provided data showing that the number of vehicles produced in the U.K. actually rose over the last four years — from around 1.51 million cars in 2013 to 1.72 million in 2016.
In response to a request for comment on Zyperies’ assertion, a spokeswoman for her ministry noted that around 5.7 million vehicles were produced in Germany. “This puts Germany first in EU terms and clearly ahead of Great Britain,” the spokeswoman said.
The ministry did not provide data to back up Zypries’ assertion that “hardly any cars” are produced in the U.K.
Zypries is among those participating on Wednesday in a so-called “diesel summit” in Berlin, bringing together government ministers, regional state premiers and CEOs from major car companies to come up with a way of reducing harmful emissions of nitrogen oxide and other pollutants from diesel cars.
The meeting, which takes place less than two months before Germany’s parliamentary election, was called back in June but has been overshadowed by reports in recent weeks that major carmakers Volkswagen, Daimler, BMW, Audi and Porsche colluded in technical working groups going back decades to thwart competition.
A comfortable majority of Europeans now say they are optimistic about the future of the EU and more than two-thirds identify themselves as EU citizens, according to a survey of more than 33,000 people across the bloc and in candidate countries.
At 68 percent, the figure on EU citizenship is the highest ever recorded by the regular European Commission survey for this indicator from when they began asking the question in 2010 (when it was at 62 percent), suggesting that people across the bloc are more comfortable than ever identifying themselves as members of the transnational club.
The figure of 56 percent for EU optimism — in the latest Eurobarometer survey published Wednesday —  marks a rise of six points on the last poll, conducted in autumn. Since then, pro-European moderates have beat off competition from nationalist, anti-European parties in both the Dutch and French elections, and economic news within the bloc has improved.
But more than a year on from the Brexit referendum, those surveyed in the U.K. were markedly less feel-good about the EU’s future. Thirty-nine percent said they were optimistic and just 20 percent said they thought the British economy would improve during the next year — down 6 points on the last survey.
When asked if the impact of the 2008 economic crisis on jobs has already reached its peak, Brits were a bit more pessimistic with half of the respondents saying the worst is still to come. The EU average is at 47 percent.
The data also shows that despite the Brexit process having started, Brits now appear to have a slightly more positive view of the bloc they are leaving. Thirty-six percent said they had a positive image of the EU, up 2 percentage points, and 29 percent say they have a negative image (down 3 percentage points).
Across the rest of Europe, the most significant increases in optimism about the EU were in France (55 percent, a rise of 14 percentage points since last fall), Denmark (70 percent, up 13 points) and Portugal (64 percent, up 10 points).
The report also suggests that trust in the EU is on the rise across the bloc. More than four in 10 Europeans trust the EU (42 percent): up 10 percentage points since fall 2015.
Kellyanne Conway’s office has a different vibe than other corners of the West Wing.
Unlike some of the drab work spaces belonging to her male counterparts, whose offices look as impersonal as the day they moved in, Conway’s office is decorated with colorfully framed, oversize family photos mounted on the walls and a copy of Ivanka Trump’s book “Women Who Work” prominently on display.
The comfy digs are a sign that Conway, the White House counselor who recently has been keeping a lower profile, is planning on being here for the long haul — even though some of her colleagues, including chief strategist Steve Bannon and recently departed chief of staff Reince Priebus, have at times tried to cut her out of the information loop.
Meanwhile, former colleagues like Priebus, Anthony Scaramucci, Sean Spicer, Michael Flynn, Michael Dubke, Michael Short and Boris Epshteyn have been fired, or simply resigned to save themselves. Even Bannon, according to multiple people close to President Donald Trump, has been the target of the president’s recent frustrations and anger, and he has been trying to lower his genius-behind-the-throne profile in order to avoid sharing Priebus’ unhappy fate.
Conway, however, is not alone in surviving the snakepit. The quiet endurers of Trump’s tumultuous White House, by and large, are the women who serve in his administration. That fact that may seem ironic in an administration run by a man who has launched sexist attacks on everyone from morning show host Mika Brzezinski to his former campaign opponent Hillary Clinton — and who in the past has been accused by more than a dozen women of groping or kissing them against their will.
But the women of the West Wing, at least so far, have had the more stable ride. Former Goldman Sachs partner Dina Powell has risen in the ranks to become deputy national security adviser. She was also on the final shortlist of people Trump was considering for the chief of staff job given to retired General John Kelly, according to two White House officials.
It was Powell, alongside U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, who was invited to ride in Trump’s car, known as “The Beast,” from the White House to Andrews Air Force Base last Friday, hours before the president unceremoniously fired Priebus in the rain.
Communications adviser Hope Hicks maintains an unassailable position as a surrogate family member and loyal aide by the president’s side, where she has stood since before there was even a campaign.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders has risen to the position of press secretary, after Spicer resigned because he was not given the full control of the communications department that he demanded.
During Scaramucci’s brief attempt at cleansing the West Wing of former Republican National Committee staffers, he managed to oust press aide Short, but not another RNC alum, Lindsay Walters, who was also brought on board by Priebus.
Trump adviser Omarosa Manigault, famous for playing a villain on “The Apprentice,” has so far been leading a surprisingly drama-free, if not particularly visible, work life in the White House.
And Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and a senior adviser, has skated past the FBI’s ongoing Russia investigation, which has entangled both her husband and her older brother, Donald Trump Jr.
So far, only two women have been moved out of Trump’s West Wing. Former deputy national security adviser K.T. McFarland, a former Fox News commentator, was seen as collateral damage in Flynn’s firing and was given a cushy landing as ambassador to Singapore. Katie Walsh, Priebus’ former deputy, who had no real personal relationship with the president, never overcame her internal reputation as a Priebus henchwoman.
It’s unclear exactly why women have had more stable runs, at least so far, in Trump’s West Wing, a place that has proposed policies deeply threatening to traditional women’s interests, such as the defunding of Planned Parenthood and the rolling back of Obama-era regulations on equal pay.
Interviews with former staffers, current White House officials and political observers give most of the credit to women being better equipped to navigate Trump’s short-fused personality, as well as his inability to cope with anyone getting more attention than him.
“He’s no different to women than he is to men,” said Barbara Res, a former top construction executive at the Trump Organization who worked directly under Trump and said he hasn’t changed his playbook in 30 years. “He’s not any more solicitous of women. He likes to have everyone on edge, people competing with each other, he likes to divide and conquer, he likes everyone to think they work directly for him, men and women alike.”
Res said she doesn’t think Trump views his direct reports in terms of gender. “He never thought of me as a woman,” she said. “He thought I was a real estate animal, he loved my killer instincts. That’s what he wanted. The ones he saw as women were the secretaries.”
That sentiment was echoed by McFarland in an interview earlier this year with Business Insider. “I don’t think he cares two hoots whether I was male or female,” she said. “He just thought I could get the job done.”
A White House official said: “The president has employed women at the highest levels of his company, his campaign and now his administration, and their successes are a testament in part to his leadership, but as he would be the first to tell you, more importantly their capabilities.”
But Res said women may have an easier time navigating the competitive work atmosphere that Trump likes to foster because they are naturally more self-protective. “It would be rare to find a female Scaramucci,” she said, noting it was unlikely that a woman would unload the profane tirade against White House officials that ultimately cost Scaramucci his job.
A White House official said: “The President has employed women at the highest levels of his company, his campaign and now his administration and their successes are a testament in part to his leadership, but as he would be the first to tell you, more importantly their capabilities.”
Added Alexandra De Luca, press secretary to EMILY’s List: “Women who are successful in their careers have usually had to deal with misogynistic jerks along the way. This White House is about as toxic as it gets — but women have learned how to manage, and ignore, Trump’s particular brand of egomania in a way that their male counterparts just haven’t.”
Indeed, some of the women who have succeeded in Trump’s circle are those who gamely play along with the role the president casts them in. On the evening after his inauguration, Trump gave a shout-out to his former campaign manager at a black-tie dinner. “I see my Kellyanne,” Trump said from the stage, beckoning her to join him and then kissing her hand and calling her “baby.” She smiled and curtsied.
During a joint appearance on “The View” in 2006, Ivanka Trump smiled along while her dad remarked on her figure and noted while seated next to her on the couch: “If Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her.”
Other White House observers had a different theory of why the women are surviving: None of them have occupied the hot seat jobs. With a few exceptions, the women in Trump’s White House have simply not been given enough authority to be targeted for professional assassination.
Of the 22 staffers who take home the maximum salary of $179,700, just five are women — Conway, Hicks, Manigault, Powell and Lindsay Reynolds, chief of staff to the first lady. That’s not a phenomenon unique to Trump’s White House: Women in Barack Obama’s White House, during his first term, struggled to have a seat at the table and a voice in policy discussions, and two-thirds of the president’s top aides were men.
The lack of top female advisers became an optics problem for Trump in the opening days of his administration, when he would often be surrounded by a gaggle of white men crowding around the Resolute Desk for a photo-op signing of an executive order.
While she has been cut out of many meetings, Conway, people close to her said, sees the upside of the floater role she currently occupies. It allows her to fly under the radar when necessary and stay out of the president’s ever-changing line of fire. White House officials said it remains to be seen how long Sanders will remain in the president’s favor now that she is in the media spotlight on a daily basis.
But most White House officials and former campaign staffers interviewed credit the tactics of the female White House officials for knowing how best to manage Trump.
“In this White House, most of the drama queens are men,” said Stu Loeser, a former press secretary to New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. For example, Bannon and Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, waged a war against each other for weeks, until Trump told them to work it out. The tension between Bannon and Priebus, in the early days of the administration, became so unmanageable that they took their fake buddy comedy on the road, making a knee-slapping appearance together at the Conservative Political Action Conference, in an attempt to change the narrative.
One factor that several White House officials pointed to: the number of senior White House women who have three to six children. One official said that between kids and a demanding day job, “they just don’t have the same amount of time to stir the pot.”
Another White House aide added that the female staffers who have succeeded in the administration are the ones who “keep their heads down” and don’t try to be in the press or push their own agenda. Trump also notices which people generally command the respect of everyone else in the room.
“Those women are being work horses, not show horses,” said Alyssa Mastromonaco, a former top official in Obama’s White House, who has experienced the pressure-cooker environment of being one of the few top women in the West Wing. “They all seem to be genuinely focused on the presidency and not building a personal brand. I may not share Sarah Huckabee Sanders’ politics, but she’s working her ass off and deserves more credit than she gets.”
A majority of Germans want the government to take tougher measures against the auto industry after a series of scandals emerged involving cheating on emissions testing and alleged collusion, a survey published Wednesday in Die Welt suggested.
Almost three quarters (72.8 percent) of the 5,042 respondents to an online survey conducted July 31-August 1 said Berlin is over-protective of the auto industry when it comes to air pollution.
Residents of densely populated areas in particular (81 percent) said the government shouldn’t take carmakers’ interests into account when drawing up policies, compared to 70 percent of those living in areas with few inhabitants.
Representatives of the car industry meet politicians from the federal and state governments in Berlin Wednesday to discuss air pollution at a so-called diesel summit.
The meeting was called in June, before allegations emerged in recent weeks that major carmakers Volkswagen, Daimler, BMW, Audi and Porsche colluded for decades to thwart competition.
Germans perceive climate change as the world’s biggest threat, Die Welt reported on its front page. The paper pointed to a global survey of respondents in 38 countries about their biggest fears, which indicated Germans were most concerned about climate and the rise of Islamic State. FAZ focused on the increasing number of migrants in Germany. The paper pointed to government figures that indicated in 2016, the proportion of Germans from a foreign background reached a record for the fifth year in a row; one in five Germans (or 18.6 million people) have a migrant background, the paper said.

Le Monde focussed on Paris’ bid for 2024 Olympic Games. The paper reported on the fact Los Angeles agreed to host the Games in 2028, paving the way for the French capital to hold the tournament in 2024. The decision will need to be formally ratified by the International Olympic Committee in September. Le Figaro, meanwhile, focused on Chinese tourists returning to France after abandoning the country in 2016 as a result of a spate of terror attacks.

The Guardian published the names of wealthy empty home-owners in Grenfell borough in London, where dozens of people remain homeless as a result of the deadly Grenfell Tower fire in June. The paper revealed there were 1,652 empty homes in Kensington and Chelsea, and across the borough, 37 percent of empty properties have been unoccupied for two years or more. Owners include oligarchs, foreign royalty and multimillionaire businessmen. The I paper wrote about women paying the price of pension reforms. The paper reported on the results of a study that suggested more than a million women in their 60s have become poorer as a result of a delay to their state pensions.

La Repubblica’s front page featured a story about the outcome of a meeting between French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire and Italian Treasury Minister Pier Carlo Padoan on Tuesday. They agreed to try to resolve their dispute over French President Emmanuel Macron’s nationalization of a French shipyard to prevent an Italian company from buying it when the two countries’ leaders meet September 27. Il Gazzettino wrote a deal was still far off.

Scotland won’t vote in favor of independence from the U.K. because “it would be terrible” and “they just went through hell,” U.S. President Donald Trump told the Wall Street Journal in an interview last week, according to a transcript obtained by POLITICO and published Tuesday.
Asked by the Journal’s Gerard Baker whether he thought Scotland would break free from the U.K., Trump said: “You don’t see it.”
“One little thing, what would they do with the British Open if they ever got out?” Trump continued, referring to the professional golf tournament. “They’d no longer have the British Open.”
Asked about a potential trade agreement with Britain, Trump mused, “You don’t hear the word Britain anymore. It’s very interesting. It’s like, nope.”
Probed for more details on when a pact might be signed, Trump said: “As soon as it’s appropriate to have it kick in.”
Trump went on to criticize the U.S.-EU trade relationship, calling it “very unfair.”
“I have a very good relationship with the EU people and all, but they are very, very protectionist,” Trump said. “You know, our farmers and others can’t even deal with — you know, you can’t sell in … the EU was conceived to the point that they wanted to do something to compete with the United States. Well, you know, you could say that’s a friendly act or an unfriendly act.”
The U.S. president said he would include services in a trade deal with the U.K.
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is preparing to take action against China over trade as soon as this week, two administration officials familiar with the issues told POLITICO.
President Donald Trump will soon call on U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to open an investigation against China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 for violations of U.S. intellectual property rights and forced technology transfers.
As POLITICO reported earlier this week, senior Trump aides held a series of high-level meetings in recent days to finalize the decision, which is the culmination of three months of regular huddles on trade.
Trump’s aides have been deeply divided on trade, with top trade adviser Peter Navarro and chief strategist Steve Bannon calling for aggressive measures even as others like National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn have urged caution. But an administration official said the decision to launch a Section 301 investigation won broad support among the president’s ideologically diverse staff.
“We found a sweet spot,” one administration official said.
An announcement is expected late this week, but an official cautioned it could slip into next week.
Trump has grown increasingly frustrated with China in recent months, fuming in public and in private about what he views as the country’s unfair trade practices. He has separately complained that China isn’t doing enough to stop North Korea from developing a nuclear weapon capable of striking the United States.
The pending decision would dramatically escalate tension between the United States and China — and it could result in steep tariffs on Chinese goods.
U.S. companies have complained they are often forced to share valuable technology with Chinese counterparts as a condition of doing business in the country. Section 301 allows the U.S. to impose unilateral duties against countries that impose barriers to U.S. exports.
Any administration action would give Lighthizer a leading role in a lengthy investigation that could peer into all aspects of Chinese industrial policies and potentially result in unilateral U.S. trade sanctions. As talk of the possible move circulated this week throughout the trade community, the trade representative’s press office has remained mum.
Frustration that China is not doing more to persuade North Korea to rein in its nuclear program seems to be motivating the administration to fire a shot across the bow on the trade front, one source said. Many in the business community are likely to silently cheer the action as long overdue, but others may be worried about a further souring of the business environment and possible Chinese retaliation, a second source said.
The Commerce Department is separately completing its own investigation into steel imports that could result in additional actions against China. That investigation is ongoing and likely won’t be unveiled this week, sources said.
Section 301 has not been widely used since the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1995, when the United States began to litigate disputes through the Geneva-based body rather than take through unilateral action. However, it remains on the books as a potential tool.
Aggrieved industries can file a petition asking for an investigation into unfair trade practices, or the USTR can self-initiate a probe. Once the trade agency makes a finding of unfair trade, it would be empowered to seek a negotiated settlement – backed up with the threat of possible retaliation if no deal is made.
Lighthizer is well-versed in the tool from his previous stint at USTR during in the 1980s during the Reagan administration, when it was used on a number of occasions.
Meanwhile, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and other Democrats are set to roll out new trade legislation Wednesday with a special emphasis on stopping China and other countries from cheating on trade rules and manipulating markets for an unfair advantage.
Schumer has repeatedly goaded Trump to make good on campaign promises to get tough on China. On Tuesday, he urged the president to punish Beijing for its failure to stop North Korea by blocking it from making any further purchases of U.S. companies. “If China does not change its posture, the U.S. should take clear and firm action to seek to ensure China’s cooperation,” Schumer said.
The Democrats’ new bill is part of their effort to convince voters they can offer “a better deal” for the middle class than the Republicans can under Trump.
Josh Dawsey contributed to this story.
PARIS — The next leader of France’s conservative establishment could well be a fiercely ambitious young man with an immigrant background and zero qualms about betraying his own camp.
In other words, a new Nicolas Sarkozy.
Gérald Darmanin, now minister of public accounts, was for years a card-carrying member of Les Républicains, the country’s main conservative party, and a protégé of Sarkozy. Then he defected, joined Emmanuel Macron’s centrist camp and was rewarded with a high-profile finance ministry job. He’s never publicly spoken about returning to Les Républicains and taking over as leader, but that’s what many think he’s planning.
When the time is right, allies and critics believe, Darmanin will break away from Macron and offer himself up as the savior of the French right.
The conservatives, however, are in a mess. Les Républicains bosses are locked in a battle over how to carry on under Macron, with one camp — led by hard-liner Laurent Wauquiez — advocating open confrontation with the government, and another — led by former Finance Minister François Baroin — taking a more conciliatory line.
Darmanin, who left the party five months ago, has had nothing to do with the jostling — and it’s that kind of clever maneuvering that makes him a likely conservative leader down the line.
The 35-year-old, born to a working-class family with Algerian and Maltese roots, is in charge of carrying out budget cuts that conservatives will embrace, and is setting himself up as the standard-bearer for a new generation of conservatives who want nothing to do with the party’s old guard — especially former Prime Minister François Fillon, who failed to win power when it was within his grasp.
“He’s going to do the job for Macron but in four, five, 10 years — expect to hear a lot more about him,” said an aide who asked not to be named.
A recent exchange in parliament captured some of Darmanin’s chutzpah. He was making one of his first speeches in the chamber when far-right leader Marine Le Pen yelled “Judas” at him. He quickly fired back, “Unlike you, Judas will go down in history.”
The remark showed not just that Darmanin embraces being viewed as a turncoat, but that he harbors few doubts about his destiny. He told an interviewer from the Bondy Blog, a news site based near Paris: “If you question people close to me about my temperament, they will tell you I have doubts about nothing. It’s not a matter of being pretentious, but I never consider whether what I undertake is going to succeed. The idea never enters my head.”
Darmanin is seen as being so cunning that conservatives have taken to calling him”Dar-malin” — a play on the word for clever, although the origin of malin in French is “evil.”
The nickname is not meant as a compliment.
Given that many Les Républicains MPs consider Darmanin to be a traitor, he may seem an unlikely heir to Sarkozy’s crown. But his current position is enviable, even ideal.
While Les Républicains struggle to find their place in a French politics turned upside down by Macron, Darmanin — whose office did not respond to a request for comment for this article — is gaining important experience as a minister, including by slashing funds from bloated ministries, one of Fillon’s core campaign proposals.
And unlike the Macron government’s other conservative “traitor,” Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire, Darmanin is young enough to claim that he had nothing to do with the privileged ruling elite.
Darmanin does not fit the profile of a traditional French conservative. He was born in the hardscrabble northern town of Valenciennes (current unemployment rate: 15.2 percent) to a father who managed a bistro and a mother who worked as a cleaner. One of his grandparents, he likes to remind anyone who will listen, was an Algerian who fought for France as a “Harki” soldier. Another was a Maltese Jew.
Darmanin did badly at public school in Valenciennes, so his parents scraped together the cash for private education in Paris. When they ran out of money for tuition, the school allowed Darmanin to finish his studies for free (in exchange, he had to spend years working as a hall monitor).
After working odd jobs that included singing in the metro and waiting tables, he signed up for the Lille branch of Sciences Po, the elite school of political science.
Former classmates remember him as uncommonly focused and driven from the first day.
“When we showed up to school, Gérald was standing by the door wearing a full suit and greeting people as they came in,” remembered one classmate, who asked to be identified only by his first name, Ben. “He was already then who he is today.”
Another ex-classmate, who also asked not to be named, recalled how Darmanin passed up a chance to study for a year abroad in one of Sciences Po’s sister institutions. Instead, he chose to work as an intern at the European Parliament.
“In my third year [at Sciences Po], I had no money and honestly no desire to go abroad,” he told Bondy Blog. “So instead of thinking of student parties, I went looking for work at the European Parliament.”
From there, the only way was up. Darmanin was taken under the wing of former Gaullist minister Jacques Toubon, who introduced him to conservative heavyweights such as Xavier Bertrand, who now runs Northern France’s regional council, and helped him become chief of staff to Sarkozy’s sports minister, David Douillet.
In 2014, Darmanin ran for election as mayor of Tourcoing, just north of Lille, and won, establishing himself on the national political scene.
One elder political statesman who could not get enough of Darmanin was Sarkozy. In this scrappy, determined child of immigrants, he saw a reflection of himself — another “little Frenchman of mixed blood,” to borrow Sarko’s own phrase.
It was a mark of Sarkozy’s affection that he forgave Darmanin for criticizing his lurch toward right-wing politics during the 2012 presidential campaign.
Darmanin, whose middle name is Moussa, had bristled at the suggestion, made by Sarkozy and other conservatives, that Islam was “incompatible with the French Republic.” Darmanin told Bondy Blog that although he felt “culturally Catholic,” it was unfair to tell the offspring of Muslims who died fighting for the tricolor that their religion was incompatible with being French.
Perhaps to square his own views on the issue, perhaps as a shrewd political move, Darmanin came up with a solution for France’s struggle to integrate a large Muslim population. As Napoleon had done with France’s Jews in 1808, Darmanin suggested the French state should sign an agreement with Muslim leaders stating that they would always respect the Republic’s laws, conduct much of their teaching in French and rescind foreign influence.
Sarkozy liked the idea, and the man, so much so that he brought Darmanin onboard as director of his conservative primary election campaign in 2016.
Sarkozy failed to win the primary, and instead it was Fillon who became the conservative choice for president.
At first, Darmanin toed the line and joined in attacks on Fillon’s main rival for the presidency at the time, a former economy minister named Emmanuel Macron just four years older than Darmanin.
“He [Macron] is a pure product of the system,” Darmanin wrote in January for newspaper l’Opinion. “You can’t have a better representative of the best neighborhoods, the best studies, the best wealth, the best network.”
But as Fillon became embroiled in a scandal over public money paid to his wife and children, Darmanin performed an about-face. He resigned from a senior position in the Républicains hierarchy and withdrew from the election campaign, angering former allies. “The fact that he’s changing camps is not a disappointment; it confirms what we knew of him,” said a former interior minister and Sarkozy ally, Brice Hortefeux.
Two months later, Darmanin was appointed a minister under Macron.
Macron bore no grudge against Darmanin over his criticism during the campaign. Instead, he put the then 34-year-old in charge of carrying out a crucial campaign pledge, to bring France’s budget deficit below a European Commission target of 3 percent of gross domestic product by year-end.
If it sounds like nasty work, that’s because it is.
Darmanin, who has a reputation for personal thriftiness and kept strict control over spending when running Tourcoing, has become the face of budget cuts, shearing billions of euros from the coffers of various ministries and government bodies. That includes the military, whose former top officer Pierre de Villiers resigned in a huff after an increasingly bitter public feud with Macron over proposed budget cuts. The spat began when de Villiers read an interview with Darmanin in Le Parisien about the cuts.
He’ll be dragged over coals in the months to come by civil servants furious at budget cuts. And that may be exactly what he wants, as a conservative eyeing his own reputation for future elections when he’ll likely be courting conservative voters. The budget cuts also happen to be France’s main domestic economic story this year, and Darmanin’s in charge.
As a minister, he’s displaying Sarkozy-like energy levels. When customs officers at a Paris airport seized a large illegal shipment of turtle shells, Darmanin — only nominally responsible for customs — raced to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Environment Minister Nicolas Hulot for the photo op, on what was otherwise a slow news day.
Such hyperactivity puts Darmanin on a collision course with the finance ministry’s other big fish, Bruno Le Maire.
An aide to the economy minister told POLITICO the two men were “very complementary” and traveled together to weekly cabinet meetings. But the aide added that Darmanin did not “have Bruno’s public profile … It’s not an insult to him to say that he’s young, and that he did not run for election during the primary.”
As for Darmanin’s fast-paced style, the aide said, “He learned politics under Sarkozy.”
Italy and France agreed Tuesday to try to resolve their dispute over French President Emmanuel Macron’s nationalization of a French shipyard when the two countries’ leaders meet next month.
Under Macron’s predecessor, François Hollande, Paris agreed that Italian company Fincantieri would buy a two-thirds holding in the STX yard in Saint-Nazaire for €79.5 million. But Macron’s government chose to nationalize the shipyard for what it said was a temporary period and offered a 50-50 deal, which the Italians rejected.
French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire traveled to Rome Tuesday to try to mend fences with the Italian government. But the best the two sides could do was to kick the issue down the road to a summit between Macron and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni on September 27.
“It was decided that there will be time from now until September 27 … to evaluate the chance to overcome these differences,” Italian Treasury Minister Pier Carlo Padoan said after meeting Le Maire.
In a joint statement, Italy expressed “deep regret” at the French decision. The two sides also voiced “their wish of facilitating the creation of a more efficient and competitive European shipbuilding industry.”
In the period leading up to the summit, the two countries said, France “commits not to open the capital of STX France to any third party and to consider Fincantieri as its preferred option for the future of the company.”
Italy has long complained that the EU’s free movement of capital rules have worked to the benefit of France and the detriment of Italy. In the last few years, big French companies have acquired control or significant stakes in several of their Italian competitors, whereas the opposite — so Rome claims, denouncing French “protectionism” — hasn’t been the case.
Macron’s move to nationalize the shipyard came just a few days after he had also angered Italy by trying to broker a peace deal between warring factions in Libya, a former Italian colony in which Rome has continued to play a leading diplomatic role.
President Donald Trump called his son-in-law Jared Kushner a “good boy” while thanking Wall Street Journal editor-in-chief Gerard Baker for a positive editorial about Kushner and said the leader of the Boy Scouts told him his jamboree speech was “the greatest speech ever made to them.”
The comments, made to the Wall Street Journal and obtained in a transcript by POLITICO, show Trump holding forth at length with Baker and engaging in a familiar back-and-forth. Baker, according to the transcript, asked many of the questions and took the lead byline on the main piece about the interview as well, an unusual step for the editor in chief of a paper with a large White House reporting staff.
The Journal has not published a transcript of the interview but it has circulated around the Journal newsroom as well as among others in New York and Washington.
Ivanka Trump stopped by the Oval Office during the interview, telling Baker she heard he was there and wanted to say hello. Ivanka Trump has often made an appearance during interviews with her father, including with The New York Times and POLITICO, to make small talk.
Baker told Ivanka Trump, “It was nice to see you out in Southampton a couple weeks ago,” an apparent reference to a party thrown last month attended by many politicos, business titans and media elites thrown by Washington Post heiress Lally Weymouth, now the Post’s senior associate editor. Ivanka Trump and Baker also chatted about their daughters, who are both named Arabella.
The president and Baker also talked about golf and travel.
The interview renewed questions internally at the paper about Baker’s leadership and posture towards the White House.
Baker has defended his paper in the past from criticism, both internal and external, that the broadsheet has been too soft on the real estate mogul and reality television star turned 45th president of the United States.
In an internal town hall with employees in February, Baker said that anyone who claims the Journal has been soft on Trump is peddling “fake news,” and that employees who are unhappy with the Journal’s objective, as opposed to oppositional, approach to Trump should work somewhere else.
The interview occurred on July 25 and was arranged by Baker after initial requests by Journal reporters, multiple sources familiar with the interview said. A White House official said the president was not personally involved in setting up the interview.
Three editors sat in on the interview including Baker, Deputy Editor-in-Chief Matt Murray, Washington Bureau Chief Paul Beckett and White House reporters Michael Bender and Peter Nicholas.
A Wall Street Journal spokesperson said the paper is “proud of the on-the-record interview we conducted with President Trump, which produced multiple, newsworthy articles.”
“We published the noteworthy excerpts from the interview. We saw no reason to publish the crosstalk that inevitably accompanies any conversation,” the spokesperson said.
Both the president and his daughter praised Baker for a Wall Street Journal editorial published the day before, which commended Trump’s son-in-law and senior advisor Jared Kushner for setting “a disclosure example on Russia” in an 11-page statement released before meeting with Senate and House intelligence committees, describing his contacts with Russian figures during the campaign and after the election.
“And I liked your editorial today, very nice. (Laughs.)” the transcript quotes Ivanka Trump as saying.
“Oh, good, good. Well, you see, you know, my colleagues write those, so they’ll be – they’ll be –” Baker said, likely referring to the editorial section that is separate from the news section at the newspaper, before being cut off by the president.
“You did a good job,” Trump said.
“Yeah, you really did,” Ivanka Trump added.
“Thank you very much. Thank you,” Baker replied.
“You did a good job,” Trump continued before referring to Kushner: “He’s a good – he’s a good boy.”
“They wrote a very nice editorial, so very good,” Ivanka Trump said.
“In keeping with our longstanding tradition of total separation between News and Opinion, opinion pieces are the sole responsibility of Paul Gigot [Editor of the Editorial page] and his team,” the Journal spokesperson said.
The spokesperson also pointed to Baker’s comment in the transcript about how the editorial the president praise was written by his colleagues, not him.
At one point during the interview, Trump seemed annoyed that one of the Wall Street Journal reporters in the room called the reaction to his July 24 Boy Scouts speech “mixed.”
“There was no mix there. That was a standing ovation from the time I walked out to the time I left, and for five minutes after I had already gone. There was no mix,” Trump said.
He added: “And I got a call from the head of the Boy Scouts saying it was the greatest speech that was ever made to them, and they were very thankful. So there was – there was no mix.”
The chief of the Boy Scouts subsequently apologized for the political nature of the speech.
The full transcript, unpublished by the Journal but obtained by POLITICO, is below.
The Wall Street Journal
Interview with President Donald Trump
Location: Washington, D.C.
Date: Tuesday, July 25, 2017
GERARD BAKER: Yes, yes.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Tax, other things.
MR. BAKER: Yeah. Economy, trade, fate of the world – world economy, market –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: As we speak.
MR. BAKER: Consumer confidence at a 17-year high.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: What did you say?
MR. BAKER: Consumer confidence at a 17-year high.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Can you believe it? Isn’t that nice. There’s good reason for it, too, and I think we’re doing pretty well on health care. We’ll see.
MR. BAKER: Yeah, yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I call it a motion to talk, you know. It’s not a motion to proceed.
MR. BAKER: The Senate view –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: It’s not – basically, it’s a motion to talk. But once you get that motion, it’s in pretty good shape, once you get in. It’s hard to get in, but once you get in. So we’re going to see. John McCain was a great help, coming in as he did. And so it was something I very much appreciate, and we’ll see what happens. We’re going to know in about two hours.
MR. BAKER: What have you been doing, Mr. President, sort of behind the scenes?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: A lot. A lot.
MR. BAKER: I mean, what do you think the crucial conversations have been?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Many conversations. I just had one with a certain senator that was very convincing to that senator. So I’ve done a lot. I mean, last night – last night it was amazing. I was at the – you know, I was in West Virginia doing certain things and making a speech to the Boy Scouts, and that was some crowd. That was an incredible crowd.
But I’ve been working hard, trying to get the senators to go along with it. And I – you know, I think I – you know, look, just don’t quote me on this unless it happens, but I think we have a pretty good shot. And that vote’s taking place at about 2:00 today, right? 2:00?
WSJ: A little bit later, yeah, exactly.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: A little bit later?
WSJ: All depending on McCain’s plane landing.
WSJ: If you get the vote – if you get the vote today to go ahead, what will be the next hurdle that you –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, then you have to go and decide on what plan you want, which way you’re going to go. You want to decide on is it repeal or repeal and replace. If it’s repeal and replace, which one do you want to go? Which form of existing conditions? I mean, there’s many things. But once you’re in there, then you can really negotiate. This is actually the heart, though. Once you’re there, you can, you know, Gerard – oh, say hello.
MS. : Hi, Gerard. How are you?
MR. BAKER: Oh, hey. How nice to see you. How are you doing?
MS. : I heard you were here. I wanted to come by and say hi.
(Cross talk.)
MS. : How is your Arabella (sp)?
MR. BAKER: Oh, very – (inaudible). She just got back from Costa Rica. She was there for two weeks. And how’s – and how’s yours?
MS. : Oh, very good. (Inaudible.)
MR. BAKER: It was nice to see you out in Southampton a couple weeks ago.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So you do, you have a – is it the same spelling?
MR. BAKER: I have an – exactly the same spelling, Arabella (sp). Yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: How did that happen? I think you named your daughter after –
MS. : It’s an English name, but it’s not particularly common, so.
MR. BAKER: It’s not very common, yeah, no. Actually, we were there first.
MS. : You’re the first.
MR. BAKER: Mine is – mine is 15. How old is yours?
MS. : Oh, OK.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So he’s – I think you copied.
MS. : So I copied that. (Laughter.)
MR. BAKER: Yeah, yeah, no, it’s actually –
MS. : And I liked your editorial today, very nice. (Laughs.)
MR. BAKER: Oh, good, good. Well, you see, you know, my colleagues write those, so they’ll be – they’ll be –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You did a good job.
MS. : Yeah, you really did.
MR. BAKER: Thank you very much. Thank you.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You did a good job. He’s a good – he’s a good boy.
MS. : They wrote a very nice editorial, so very good.
MR. BAKER: Thank you.
WSJ: Thank you.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Thanks, honey. Stay around if you want.
MS. : Yeah, yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So we’ll have the vote today at probably 3:00 or so. And we have the head of Lebanon coming in; that’ll be interesting, a little – a little change of pace. We keep it interesting. But so we’ll see what that’s all about.
MR. BAKER: Are you recommending to the people that you talk to a particular – do you want – are you saying do this and then go for repeal, or are you going –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’d rather see repeal and replace because I – I can do either way. If you remember, it was – you know, it was an idea that I had very early on, repeal. Trouble with repeal is you’ll have millions of people out there that – well, it’s like we just got the highest confidence in many years; you know, people out there that will say, well, you know, how do we know we’re going to have health care? And I hate to do that to people.
WSJ: But you’ve been concerned about that, right –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’ve always – I’m always concerned about that. I don’t like it. I don’t – I don’t like it from that standpoint. Now, with that being said, you might be able to make a very good deal because I think there’s a lot of pressure on the Democrats. But the Democrats are nothing more than obstructionists. That’s all they can do. That’s all they seem to be good at. So they’re obstructionists, so what they will do, even though it’s for the good of the country, they will obstruct. They can’t do anything about Obamacare, and I understand that. They don’t want to vote against it. But now, once it’s done – it was my original theory: once it’s begun, now they can get together. They can do something. But they won’t do that. There’s too much – and this isn’t with respect to me; this is years. This is years, Gerry. I mean, if you look at what’s been going on over the last long period of time. I actually asked people that are political people – I could ask you people – you know, is it the worst you’ve seen it? And I’ve had every single person, no, actually there’s certain other times that were worse. There were certain times in Obama’s administration that were worse.
MR. BAKER: The partisanship, you mean.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You think – yeah, the partisanship. So, anyway.
So I’d rather see – I’d rather see replace. I’d rather add the replace. And we have a very good plan. That’s the one thing, we really have a good plan. We’ve covered a lot of territory. It’s a very, very difficult situation because you move a little bit to the left and you lose four guys, you move a little bit to the right all of a sudden you have a bloc of people that are gone. You have about a one-inch road and it wheels through the middle of the valley, and if it’s even slightly off – it’s a very difficult – it’s a very difficult thing, always has been.
You know, if you think, Hillary Clinton, smart person, she was the first lady of the country, her entire life was spent – her entire eight years was spent trying to get health care. Never even came close. Obama – and one thing I have to say, I’m here now exactly six months. Obama took would you say a year and a half?
MR. BAKER: Yeah.
WSJ: He took a year and a half, yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Because people were saying, Trump has not produced. I honestly believe for six months I have done more than just about any president when you look at all of the bills that were passed, 42, 43.
MR. BAKER: What are you most proud of in the first six months?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: A lot of things. I think I’m proud of the Supreme Court choice. And that’s not just a nomination, that’s getting him through. I’m very proud of opening up regulations. One of the reasons you see optimism is because people can actually use their land. They can farm their land. I’ve had tremendous and tremendous – look, I had 45,000 people there yesterday. It’s the biggest crowd they’ve ever had, and they were – they were going wild yesterday in West Virginia. But people can actually use their land and they can build.
And I think one of the things that I have to be very proud of is the VA. I think we have a great, great administrator, OK –
WSJ: Shulkin.
WSJ: Shulkin.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: – and a great secretary, David Shulkin. He’s – he was actually approved 100 to nothing, by the way.
MR. BAKER: What about your disappointments? Any disappointments in the first six months?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I’d have to let you know. I have to see where we are with this. Let’s see. Maybe it doesn’t work, but I think it’s going to. And, you know, it is – it would have been easier to start with taxes, but this is better if it works, OK? If it works, this is better.
WSJ: More general – generally.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: But I think, you know, depending – so if you asked me that question in a month or really at the end of the year, because we hope to get this. We hope to get taxes and then infrastructure. And then I’m going to do a very big – we’re doing very big trade deals, and we’re looking forward to that. But we want to do, ideally, this first.
You know, a lot of people said you should have started with taxes or you should have started with infrastructure. Well, infrastructure I’ll actually have bipartisan support, and I can use infrastructure to carry other things along. So I don’t want to waste it at the beginning, if that makes sense.
WSJ: Can I ask on that? I mean, are you confident? When you say the Democrats are obstructionists, and obviously they’re looking ahead to the midterms next year, it doesn’t seem like politically for Democrats there’s a lot of incentive, even on a bipartisan thing like infrastructure, that might be popular – (inaudible). How tough a road is it going to be? In any case it’s hard –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, they tried – they tried it with me. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads. She didn’t do a positive ad, virtually. And she lost easily, you know, 306 to 223 I think, right – 223, something like that. That’s a lot. And she – they tried it.
I mean, honestly, they – the ads were coming at me. Hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of negative ads. And when people went into the voter booth, they didn’t know what she stood for. I always said that. I said if I can take this onslaught personally, it’s going to be a great thing because nobody knew what she stood for. So now they’re trying to change their message a little bit, you know. I mean, it’s – it’s one of those things, but now they’re trying to change their message and we’ll see what happens.
But I think that we’re doing very well. Every indication is that in every one of our swing states we’re substantially up, like Ohio. Tonight I’m going to Ohio – Youngstown, Ohio – and we’ll be up – we’re way up. You know, I won the state by nine or 10 or something, by nine or 10 points, without any governor support, OK? So you have the governor of Ohio not supporting you and you win by almost 10 points, which is pretty good because Ohio’s not – if you remember, you guys were always saying you have to win Ohio, right? There is –
MR. BAKER: No Republican has ever won the presidency without winning Ohio.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, right, no, it’s – it was – and we won, you know, by a landslide.
WSJ: (Inaudible.)
MR. BAKER: Yeah. (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: But we’re up. We have now – are you going tonight? Are you going to the speech in Ohio tonight?
WSJ: We were in West Virginia yesterday.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, you did? Was that a scene, though? Huh?
WSJ: That was a scene, yes. (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Biggest crowd they’ve ever had. What did you think?
WSJ: I thought it was an interesting speech in the context of the Boy Scouts.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Right.
WSJ: They seemed to get a lot of feedback from former scouts and –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Did they like it?
WSJ: It seemed mixed.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: They loved it. (Laughter.) It wasn’t – it was no mix. That was a standing –
WSJ: In the – you got a good – you got a good reaction in –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I mean, you know, he writes mostly negative stuff. But that was a standing ovation –
WSJ: You got a good reaction inside the arena, that’s right.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: – from the time I walked out on the stage – because I know. And by the way, I’d be the first to admit mixed. I’m a guy that will tell you mixed. There was no mix there. That was a standing ovation from the time I walked out to the time I left, and for five minutes after I had already gone. There was no mix.
WSJ: Yeah, there was a lot of supporters in the arena.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: And I got a call from the head of the Boy Scouts saying it was the greatest speech that was ever made to them, and they were very thankful. So there was – there was no mix.
MR. BAKER: Sir, can I ask you about taxes?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes.
MR. BAKER: So, you know, we’re awaiting the outcome of health, we’ll get a vote. I know you want to get tax reform done. Gary, you talked about it.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes, very much. Very important.
MR. BAKER: So can – what’s – I mean, you’ve outlined the principles of tax reform. Can you tell us what you – you know, what you want to achieve fundamentally in tax reform?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Sure. I want to –
MR. BAKER: What are the – what are the main goals?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I want to achieve growth. We’re the highest-taxed nation in the world, essentially, you know, of the size. But we’re the highest-taxed nation in the world. We have – nobody knows what the number is. I mean, it used to be, when we talked during the debate, 2 ½ trillion (dollars), right, when the most elegant person – right? I call him Mr. Elegant. I mean, that was a great debate. We did such a great job. But at that time I was talking $2 ½ trillion. I guess it’s 5 trillion (dollars) now. Whatever it is, it’s a lot more. So we have anywhere from 4 to 5 or even more trillions of dollars sitting offshore.
We want to get that back, number one, at a very reasonable cost. And that cost is going to be 10 percent. And right now it’s so high that, number one, you would never do it on a business basis. But, number two, bureaucratically it’s impossible. Did you know that? I have friends that try and get their money back. They say they have to go through years of writing out forms and this and that to bring money back into the country. We’re going to make that one – like a half-a-page document. It’s going to be very easy to bring your money back in. And it’s going to be taxed at 10 percent, which is a rate that’s – it’s within reason. And so that’s one of the things we want to do. That’ll be an easy one. That’s one that – you know, it’s – when you talk about a country that’s broken or a system that’s broken, there’s something – the $5 trillion, let’s call it – that the Democrats and the Republicans agree should come back in. It’s been out there for years. Nobody ever did anything about it. I mean, Obama –
WSJ: Well –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Obama could have gotten that money back in very easily, even if they did a separate bill. But nobody –
MR. BAKER: Right. But a 10 percent corporate rate, that’s –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Ten percent.
WSJ: Ten percent repatriation.
MR. BAKER: Repatriation rate.
WSJ: A repatriation rate. A 10 percent repatriation rate.
WSJ: What do you think is a reasonable corporate rate? We’ve heard 20 percent, but –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, you know, we’re going for 15 (percent). We’re going to see, and we’ll see. But, you know, I don’t want to say anything about negotiation. I mean, we are asking for 15 percent, and we think we’re going to grow tremendously.
So I deal with foreign countries, and despite what you may read I have unbelievable relationships with all of the foreign leaders. They like me. I like them. You know, it’s amazing. So I’ll call, like, major – major countries, and I’ll be dealing with the prime minister or the president. And I’ll say, how are you doing? Oh, don’t know, don’t know, not well, Mr. President, not well. I said, well, what’s the problem? Oh, GDP 9 percent, not well. And I’m saying to myself, here we are at like 1 percent, dying, and they’re at 9 percent and they’re unhappy. So, you know, and these are like countries, you know, fairly large, like 300 million people. You know, a lot of people say – they say, well, but the United States is large. And then you call places like Malaysia, Indonesia, and you say, you know, how many people do you have? And it’s pretty amazing how many people they have. So China’s going to be at 7 or 8 percent, and they have a billion-five, right? So we should do really well.
But in order to do that – you know, it’s tax reform, but it’s a big tax cut. But it’s simplification, it’s reform, and it’s a big tax cut, 15 –
MR. BAKER: And on the personal side, the Treasury secretary back – way back at the start of the administration said –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, we want to do personal.
MR. BAKER: Yeah, want to do personal taxes and want to make – so whatever cuts in the rates that there are – the marginal rates there are will be balanced by the reduction in deductions, so that the people who benefit from especially at the high end would not – overall would not be net beneficiaries of tax cuts, right?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Right. Yeah, that’s – we don’t want –
MR. BAKER: And that’s still the aim? That’s still very much the aim?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So I shouldn’t say it with everybody in the room, especially Gary, but – (laughter) – this is –
MR. : Yeah, let’s all worry about me.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: The truth is the people I care most about are the middle-income people in this country who have gotten screwed. And this upward revision, it’s going to be on high-income people.
You know, I was with Bob Kraft the other night. He came to have dinner with me. He’s a friend of mine. And as he left, he said, Donald, don’t worry about the rich people. Tax the rich people. You got to take care of the people in the country. It was a very interesting statement. I feel the same way.
MR. BAKER: Well, Gary’s a middle-income – (inaudible). (Laughter.) He works for the White House. He’s on a –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: He had to pay 200 million (dollars) in tax, Gary. Gary wrote a check for 200 (million dollars).
(Cross talk.)
WSJ: There was some focus – Steve Bannon was saying that maybe you want a higher income tax than the 40 percent, you know, that you might be –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, that was not right. That was not a correct statement, no.
MR. : That was not a – that was not a correct –
WSJ: OK. OK.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We want – look, the job producers we’re going to take great care of, but we have to take care of middle-income people in this country. They built the country, they started this whole beautiful thing that we have, and we have to take care of them. And people have not taken care of them, and we’re going to.
And I mean, I have wealthy friends that say to me I don’t mind paying more tax. And I’ll tell you what I sort of don’t like, is when they – you know, you’ll do your charts in The Wall Street Journal and they’ll be brilliantly done, very nice, and they’ll show that a rich guy who made, you know, $25 million last year is going to pay less than he was. In a certain way, I don’t like that. I’d rather take that difference and put it into the middle-income and put it into corporate.
MR. BAKER: You should be able to get Democrat support for that, right? I mean, you can reach across the aisle –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, except they’re obstructionists. If they weren’t obstructionists, I would normally get Democratic support. So we don’t anticipate that. We don’t –
WSJ: How would you rate your chances of being able to make those permanent as opposed to temporary?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, do you mean 10 years versus? So it hasn’t really come up. I mean, the last time it was 10 years. When George Steinbrenner died, like with the estate taxes, the estate paid nothing. And if he would have died like two weeks later, they would have paid 50 percent of the Yankees. That would have been the end of the team, right? He had very fine tax planners. But it hasn’t come up. We’d like –
WSJ: Or doctors. (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We would like to make them permanent, but I assume you’re talking about like a –
MR. : So if it balances in the 10-year window, it’s permanent. The only way you have to end the tax plan is at the end of 10 years if it creates a deficit. We are working towards a plan that is permanent. To get the capital investment that the president wants – and that’s how you create jobs, and that’s how you create economic growth – businesses have to know it’s a permanent tax change. So that is our objective.
WSJ: Does that – (inaudible) – for businesses?
MR. : We think – we’ve spent an enormous amount of time working as a group to make sure that we get permanent tax change, simplification, and lower rates.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We think we’re going to have tremendous growth. We think money’s going to come pouring into the country.
Look, we’re losing companies. People don’t even realize how bad it is, but we’re losing companies every single day where they’re leaving because the taxes are too high. When we do this, we’ll have companies – I know companies that have left. They go to Ireland, they go to other – I own a lot of property in Ireland. They go to Ireland because of these incredible tax rates, and other places, right? We’ll have companies pouring back into our nation. I mean, it’s going to be – you know, it’s going to be beautiful.
I hope we can – I hope we can do the 15 percent, actually. By the way, 15 percent is not by any means the lowest, but at least we would go from the highest to one of the lower, lower taxes.
MS. : Another area of real focus has been skill training, as well, to ensure increased workforce participation and ensure that people are trained with the skills necessary for the jobs – (inaudible).
MR. BAKER: We’ve read a fair bit about that.
MS. : So you’ve been covering that a lot, but it’s so important. It’s one of the number one things we hear from the private sector, that they don’t have people to fill the jobs they have and they are looking to fill. So we’re working to close that gap.
MR. BAKER: Which is what makes immigration –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: But one of the things we’re doing that, so Gary and I are working – because I said, you know, Gary, we’re going to have Foxconn come in. We’re going to have a lot of companies that are coming in. Foxconn’s coming in with a big plan. We have Tim Cook I spoke to, and he’s promised me three big plants – big, big, big. I said, you know, Tim, unless –
WSJ: Really? Where?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We’ll have to see. You can call him. But I said, Tim, unless you start building your plants in this country, I won’t consider my administration an economic success, OK? And he’s called me and he says, you know, they’re going forward, three big, beautiful plants. You’ll have to call him. I mean, maybe he won’t tell you what he tells me, but I believe he will do that. I really believe it.
But I said to Gary, I said, you know, Gary, you go to certain sections and you’re going to need people to work in these massive plants that we’re getting, that are moving in. Where do we have the people? You know where we have the people? In New York state that can’t get jobs, in many other places that can’t get jobs. And people are going to have to start moving. They’re going to move to Colorado and they’re going to move to Iowa and Wisconsin and places where – like if Foxconn goes to Wisconsin, which is one of the places they’re very strongly considering – but if Foxconn goes to Wisconsin and they have a very low rate and the governor’s done an excellent job, you’re going to have a situation where you got to get the people. But they’re going to start moving. And I’m going to start explaining to people when you have an area that just isn’t working – like upper New York state, where people are getting very badly hurt – and then you’ll have another area 500 miles away where you can’t – you can’t get people, I’m going to explain you can leave, it’s OK, don’t worry about your house.
You know, a lot of them don’t leave because of their house. Because they say, gee, my house, I thought it was worth 70,000 (dollars) and now it’s worth nothing. It’s OK. Go, cut your losses, right?
MR. BAKER: While we’re on the economy, can I ask you, we’re coming up very soon to the time to decide whether or not to reappoint Janet Yellen as the –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes.
MR. BAKER: – chair of the Federal Reserve or to appoint somebody else. Are you – have you reached a decision?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I have a lot of respect for her, and I like her. I’ve met her just a couple of times, but I like her. It’s early to make the decision. She doesn’t come up until February/March?
MR. : End of June.
WSJ: February. February 1st is –
WSJ: Yeah, yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, I have a lot of respect for her. I like her. She is –
MR. BAKER: Does that mean it’s possible you would keep her?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I do like low interest rates. I mean, you know, I’m not making that a big secret. I think low interest rates are good. I like a dollar that’s not too strong. I mean, I’ve seen strong dollars. And frankly, other than the fact that it sounds good, lots of bad things happen with a strong dollar.
MR. BAKER: So she’s definitely – she’s definitely in the running to be replaced this time?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I would say – you mean to stay?
MR. BAKER: To stay.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I would say yes, she is in the running to stay.
WSJ: Is Gary a candidate? (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: He doesn’t know this, but yes, he is. (Laughter.)
WSJ: Are there other candidates?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I actually think he likes what he’s doing right now.
MR. BAKER: That’s what he tells us.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Don’t tell Gary what I just said.
WSJ: Are there other candidates?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, there are two or three. But she is – she is in the running, absolutely. I like her. I like her demeanor. I think she’s done a good job. I’d like to see rates stay low. She’s always been – you know, she’s historically been a low-interest-rate person, a believer.
WSJ: Do you have a time frame for announcing a decision?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I would say sometime by the end of year, probably.
WSJ: So you’re going to wait till it’s pretty –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I think so.
WSJ: So you’re not –
MR. BAKER: It would need a confirmation process, which will take time.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, but it’ll go quickly. We’re starting to get them much quicker. You know, they’ve been really holding up – I mean, nine months, they have really been – that’s all they can do well. You know how many people I have in there? I have – I have a lot of people in there, and they complain to me. Like Woody Johnson. He’s the ambassador to the Court of St. James, which is England, you know, et cetera, et cetera. And I mean, he said what they did to him was unbelievable. The process was so ugly. I’ve had three or four people to be ambassadors, tremendous people, very successful people. They called me and they – their whole life they wanted to do this, and they gave up. It’s, you know –
(Cross talk.)
WSJ: Are there other names?
WSJ: Are there other names you might offer who are in the mix for the Fed?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’d rather not do that.
MR. BAKER: Kevin Warsh has been mentioned. Can we – (inaudible) –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I haven’t – I’d rather not get involved. But I would say she is, certainly. And Gary is somebody that I’ve gained great – I’ve known Gary for a long time – but I’ve gained great respect for Gary working with him. So Gary certainly would be in the mix. I just don’t know if he’d like – this is off the record – if he wants to sit down. Interest rates will be moving up one-eighth of a point –
MR. BAKER: That’s the exciting stuff. (Laughter.) That’s the exciting stuff.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Right? Yeah, exactly. And then you leave. By the way, then the market crashes and it goes through the roof. You know, what you say. And then he goes off and he’ll play golf and relax for the next 30 or –
MR. BAKER: So, Gary, Yellen, and there are other contenders you’re thinking of?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, there are people that are highly respected that I would certainly think about. I don’t know that Gary would want it. I think Gary loves what he’s doing, you know, and he’s doing a very good job.
WSJ: Who else –
WSJ: (Inaudible.)
WSJ: Sometimes needs to get a comment from Gary. (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You want to comment? (Laughs.)
WSJ: On the record. On the record.
MR. : This is an interview with the president. This is an interview with the president.
WSJ: We’ll call your office.
WSJ: This is an interview with the president.
WSJ: Can I ask another economics question, while we’re on the subject?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah.
WSJ: You tweeted this morning about trade talks with Britain.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes.
WSJ: Can you tell us more about what’s going on?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, but I can say that we’re going to be very involved with the U.K. I mean, you don’t hear the word Britain anymore. It’s very interesting. It’s like, nope.
WSJ: I work with a Brit.
MR. BAKER: I’m English. We always make that point. You’re right, yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Is Scotland going to go for the vote, by the way? You don’t see it. It would be terrible. They just went through hell.
MR. BAKER: (Inaudible) – but they’re going to be –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: They just went through hell.
MR. BAKER: Besides, the first minister’s already made it clear she –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: What do you think? You don’t think so, right?
MR. BAKER: I don’t.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: One little thing, what would they do with the British Open if they ever got out? They’d no longer have the British Open.
MR. BAKER: (Inaudible.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Scotland. Keep it in Scotland.
MR. BAKER: We just had a – (inaudible).
PRESIDENT TRUMP: By the way, are you a member there?
MR. BAKER: No. I’ve played there, but I –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I thought that course showed well.
WSJ: It’s a gorgeous, gorgeous course.
MR. BAKER: Did you see Jordan Spieth’s amazing –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I – well, I saw his first four holes. And I said, man, that’s the end of that, because – you know?
WSJ: Yeah.
MR. BAKER: Yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So for a guy to go – you know, to me, that’s almost worse than, like, a triple bogey, because – but for a guy to go through these horrible holes, hit a bad drive like I’ve never seen – I mean, he was 150 yards right. I don’t know what that –
WSJ: Come on, you and I have hit worse drives. You and I have hit –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, no, but for – I know, but for a tour pro it was very unusual. But for a guy to then go birdie, eagle, birdie, birdie, that’s a special –
MR. BAKER: He could – he could be a career major – he could be the youngest guy to do the career major –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, he’s actually sort of – he’s in with Tiger and Jack. He’s essentially even, you know, with a number of terms and a number of majors.
MR. BAKER: Anyway, are you looking forward to doing a trade deal with the U.K.?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah. I have a great relationship –
WSJ: It would be after, right? They have a time frame.
MR. BAKER: Yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah.
WSJ: The one thing is there’s a – the one thing is there’s a ticking clock with Brexit, so.
WSJ: Well, yeah. Your tweet made it sound like you’re really talking and so you have – (inaudible) –
(Cross talk.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We have a very good relationship. I have a very good relationship with the prime minister. And we are absolutely looking to do a major trade deal.
WSJ: Would the idea be that the trade deal will kick in pretty much as soon as Brexit happens?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: As soon as it’s appropriate to have it kick in, absolutely. And it’ll be a big trade deal – much, much more business than we do right now, many, many times.
WSJ: Are there keys that would be the important pieces of it? What would – can you highlight specific –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: There’ll be certain pieces. It’s not – there’ll be certain pieces. I mean, one of the things that – I have a very good relationship with the EU people and all, but they are very, very protectionist. You know, our farmers and others can’t even deal with – you know, you can’t sell in. It’s very unfair. And that’s what I’ve been talking about for a long time. It’s so stacked against the United States. Now, the EU was conceived to the point that they wanted to do something to compete with the United States. Well, you know, you could say that’s a friendly act or an unfriendly act. But it’s very protectionist. Among the most, we have farm products that you just can’t get into the EU. And we don’t do that to them.
MR. BAKER: So you’d include an agriculture deal with the U.K.?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I’ll tell you, you know, I did – I did thing that nobody even wrote about – although, you did. (Laughter.) But when I was with President Xi, who I have a very good relationship with, I said: Do me a favor. Would you allow cattle, please, to come in? I was last night in West Virginia, and I had farmers coming up to me and hugging me and kissing me because of the cattle stuff. They actually weren’t from West Virginia; they were from other places. (Laughter.) But, you know, it was the Boy Scouts, so they came from all over the country, but –
MR. BAKER: Could you do a services deal with the U.K.? Could that include services?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah. It would include everything.
MR. BAKER: Including financial services?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, no, it would be very – it would be – it would be very all-in with –
MR. BAKER: That’s a big deal.
WSJ: Because we have a lot of financial companies already paring back their numbers, moving people to Frankfurt, already clearing out of London some. Do you think that’s a good idea right now, ahead of this?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: That’s up to them. But we’re going to have a very good relationship with the U.K. And we do have to talk to the European Union, because it’s not a reciprocal deal, you know.
The word reciprocal, to me, is very important. For instance, we have countries that charge us 100 percent tax to sell a Harley-Davidson into that country. And yet, they sell their motorcycles into us, or their bikes, or anything comparable, and we charge them nothing. There has to be a reciprocal deal. I’m all about that. And you know, it’s very interesting, at the border – people may have problems with border, but when you say reciprocal, everybody says, oh, that’s fair. So people have a problem with charging a 10 percent tax, which they shouldn’t have but they do. But when you say you’re going to charge reciprocal charge – in other words, what they charge we’re going to charge – all of a sudden these same people – it might be much more money – but these same people, all of a sudden they’re OK with it. So we have got to be much smarter.
You know, our country was built, to a large extent, on protecting our manufacturers. If you go back to Jefferson, you go back to all of these great, great people that ran the United States properly, it was really based on a certain form of tariff and a certain form of protection. We’re just the opposite now. We’re the people that are getting beat up – one of the reasons I think I’m talking to – I’m sitting behind this beautiful desk as opposed to somebody else.
MR. BAKER: What about – just, very quickly, on tariffs. On steel tariffs, you committed to imposing steel tariffs. You haven’t done that, but you still –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, we’re waiting – we’re waiting till we get everything completed. We don’t want to do at this moment. We’re going to – we’re going to wait till we get everything completed here. We’re going to see. It’s a very unfair situation. They’re dumping steel in our country. It’s extremely unfair. But we like to keep it as simple as – we like to keep very complicated subjects as simple as possible. So we’re waiting till we get everything finished up between health care and taxes and maybe even infrastructure. But we’re going to be addressing the steel dumping at a very – fairly soon.
We – just so you understand – we have massive reports. You know, a lot of this stuff you can’t just walk in and say I’m going to do this. You have to do statutory studies. And then you have to wait 90 days. And then you have to do another. And you have to wait another 20 days. It doesn’t go that quickly. It’s like NAFTA. You know, you have a six-month termination. I was ready to terminate NAFTA. I was looking forward to it, frankly, because NAFTA’s a horrible deal for the United States. And then I got a call from the president of Mexico, who’s a terrific guy, and I got a call from the prime minister of Canada. And they heard I was getting ready to terminate it. And they said: Would you have a meeting with us first? I said, yes. And if you look at my speeches, I’ve always said, either renegotiate it or terminate it.
Now, renegotiating it is easier. And we’re in the midst of a renegotiation right now. So we’ll see. And maybe we’ll have to terminate it. I happen to think NAFTA’s one of the truly bad deals – I mean, outside of the Iran deal, which is one of the worst deals in history –
WSJ: Do you think it’s salvageable? Do you think NAFTA’s salvageable?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: It may be salvageable.
WSJ: What do you need for that?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I would say – I would say it may be salvageable. But certainly, I have an obligation to give it a shot.
WSJ: What are you looking for specifically –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m looking for fairness.
WSJ: But what does that – can you give an example?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, it means – look, our automobile industry has just left us and gone to Mexico – I mean, a big chunk of it. And it’s very unfair for them to take our companies, built their cars, and then sell the car back into our country with no tax. It’s very unfair. They fire all our people in Michigan and Ohio, and they take it, and they build a car. And now they sell the car back in with no tax. It’s not fair.
WSJ: Do they get that –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: We have a $70 billion trade deficit with China, as an example.
WSJ: What does the president of Mexico say when you say that?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: He’s not thrilled. But that’s OK. I wasn’t thrilled about what he said to me.
WSJ: Does he – but does he disagree with you about that view, or does he –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, there’s not much to disagree with. Look, we have a $70 billion – we have a $70 billion trade deficit. What is anybody saying? With China, we have 350 to 504. Nobody can really define it, deficit. We have a trade deficit of $350 to $504 billion each year. We’re not going to be – it’s just not going to happen that way anymore.
WSJ: You mentioned the Iran deal, but it’s been certified as in compliance twice now. It comes up again in September. Would you – is there going to come a point where you just –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, we’re doing major studies. Oh, I would be very surprised if they will be – look, we’ve been extremely nice to them. We’ve been extremely nice to them in saying they were compliant, OK? We’ve given them the benefit of every doubt. But we’re doing very detailed studies. And personally, I have great respect for my people. If it was up to me, I would have had them noncompliant 180 days ago.
WSJ: Do you expect them to be declared noncompliant the next time?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Personally, I do. I do.
WSJ: In September?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I think they’ll be noncompliant. I think they’re taking advantage of this country. They’ve taken advantage of a president, named Barack Obama, who didn’t know what the hell he was doing. And I do not expect that they will be compliant.
WSJ: Will you overrule your staff on that, if they come back with a recommendation –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, sure. Sure. Look, I have a lot of respect for Rex and his people, good relationship. It’s easier to say they comply. It’s a lot easier. But it’s the wrong thing. They don’t comply. And so we’ll see what happens. I mean, we’ll talk about this subject in 90 days. But, yeah, I would be – I would be surprised if they were in compliance.
STAFF: Mr. President? I’m sorry. We just have time for a few more.
WSJ: Mr. President –
MR. BAKER: OK, if I may, can I ask you quick, Mr. President, we’ve talked about your achievements and disappointments. I was reminded of President Eisenhower, when he left office, said that his two biggest mistakes in officer were both sitting on the Supreme Court. From things you’ve been saying in the –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: So far I can’t say that, right?
MR. BAKER: From the same – from the things you’ve been saying in the last week or so, and tweeting, it sounds as though you may think that maybe your biggest mistake is running the Justice Department. Is that –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m disappointed in Jeff Sessions, yes.
WSJ: Do you want him to leave?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Number one, they should go after the leakers in intelligence. I don’t mean the White House stuff where they’re fighting over who loves me the most, OK? (Laughter.) It’s just stupid people doing that.
MR. BAKER: Anthony’s already taken care of that. (Laughter.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I know, that’s just – and Anthony will handle that. (Laughter.) I can – Anthony can do that out of his back pocket, OK? I’m talking about intelligence leaks. I’m talking like the story about Syria that was in The New York Times the other day. I’m – which by the way, was a decision made by people, not me. But, you know, they wrote it 100 – it was in the –
WSJ: The Post, I thought. It was in The Washington Post.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: It was in The Washington Post. That was not something that I was involved in, other than they did come and they suggested. It turns out it’s – a lot of al-Qaida we’re giving these weapons to. You know, they didn’t write the truthful story, which they never do. So all of those things are very important. But, no, I’m very disappointed in the fact that the Justice Department has not gone after the leakers. And they’re the ones that have the great power to go after the leakers, you understand. So – and I’m very disappointed in Jeff Sessions.
WSJ: You can fire him.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Look, Jeff – I could. But we’ll see what happens. But I was – I appointed a man to a position. And then shortly after he gets the position, he recused himself. I said, what’s that all about? Why didn’t you tell me that you were going to do that, and I wouldn’t have appointed you? But I appointed him. And shortly thereafter, he recused himself. So I think that is a –
MR. BAKER: You also suggested in Cleveland today they should be going – or, yesterday – they should be going after Hillary Clinton. Is that –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I didn’t – I wouldn’t have wanted to. But I see the way they go after us on a witch hunt, you know? The Russian – the Russian story’s all an excuse for the Democrats losing. In fact, if you read the book, “Shattered,” they have a whole chapter where they sat the day after the election and they said: Yeah, Russia. It was Russia. And, you know, Trump was involved. OK, the one thing interesting, you never heard me even associated with anybody. But, no, that’s a total witch hunt, the whole Russia story. It’s a hoax. It’s a hoax. We had no collusion with Russia. We never dealt with Russia.
People that were on the campaign, like Corey, came in yesterday. It was very interesting. He was being interviewed. He said – I was watching, Corey Lewandowski – he says: I was here from the beginning. And I must be honest with you, I never dealt with any Russians. He was only the campaign manager. I can even look at Hope. She was here from virtually the same day that Corey started, those two. Hope, how many Russians have you seen involved in the campaign, OK?
HOPE HICKS: None. (Laughs.)
PRESIDENT TRUMP: OK? You know, I mean, it’s sad. So they do that. And I say, that’s fine. But then we should really look at real crimes, because real crimes are what Hillary did with 33,000 emails, where she deleted them and bleached them after getting a subpoena. Real crimes are what’s happening and what happened with the uranium deal. And also – I mean, you can say the speeches made while she was secretary of state where they paid her a fortune, Podesta owning a big company in Russia – they talk about me. I have nothing to do with Russia.
You know, I put out a letter from a very – from the biggest law firm saying Trump has no involvement with Russia. I don’t. I have no involvement. I mean, I had Ms. Universe there, like, nine years ago, eight years ago, something like that. But I have nothing to do with Russia. So – and it’s very funny, because all of these people that have been on the campaign, some of them right from the beginning – Anthony’s another example. You’ve been there. You know –
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI (?): (Inaudible) – I said from the podium on Friday that’s there’s nothing to the Russia story. I said on the weekend there was nothing to the Russia story.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You know, Anthony came in to see me before it all began. And he said, I want to back you for president. This was before the June 16th day. I said, Anthony, I’m not really sure that I’m running. I’m not sure. I may, but I’m not sure. He said, you got to run, you got to run. I want to endorse you. I said, but I’m not sure. This was a few months earlier than when I ran. And he was leaving and he was disappointed. I say, Anthony, what are you going to do? He goes, I got to back somebody, because that’s the way he is. That’s his personality. And he went to a very good guy named Walker.
Then I came after the hedge fund business. So he wasn’t in love with me for a short period of time. And he backed Bush. And that was OK. But his first choice was Trump. I think it’s important to say that because, you know. Is that a true story, by the way?
MR. SCARAMUCCI (?): I was hitting you a little bit – (inaudible) – hedge funds first.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Give me those notes, Hope, come on, just give – I can’t read it. What do you think, I have 20/20 perfect –
MS. HICKS: I was just saying, you self-funded.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Huh?
MS. HICKS: You self-funded.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, yeah, I self-funded much of my –
WSJ: Just on Sessions, just one thing. Would you like to see him step aside? Would you like to see him resign? Would it be in the country’s best interest just –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m just very disappointed in him. I’m disappointed in, you know, a number of categories. I told you, the leakers. He should have – he should be after them. So many people say to me: Why are they going after you on nothing and they leave Hillary Clinton alone on, you know, really major things? And it is – so I’m disappointed in him. And don’t forget, when they say he endorsed me, I went to Alabama. I had 40,000 people, you may have been there, remember, in Mobile?
WSJ: I remember.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I had 40,000 people. He was the senator from Alabama. I won the state by a lot, massive numbers. A lot of the states I won by massive numbers. But he was a senator. He looks at 40,000 people and he probably says, what do I have to lose, and he endorsed me. So it’s not like a great, loyal thing about the endorsement. But I’m very disappointed in Jeff Sessions.
WSJ: Are you willing for the status quo to continue, though? At what point do you say enough?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m just looking at it. I’ll just see.
WSJ: What about Bob Mueller?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: It’s a very important, very important thing.
WSJ: I mean, but, Bob Mueller is also really the one leading this investigation. It’s his job to see –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, we’re going to see.
MR. BAKER: And he’s investigating Russia – your Russian connection –
WSJ: He’s the Russian guy. So Sessions has recused himself, but is Bob Mueller’s job safe? There is speculation –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, we’re going to see. I mean, I have no comment yet, because it’s too early. But we’ll see. We’re going to see. Here’s the good news: I was never involved with Russia. There was nobody in the campaign. I’ve got 200 people that will say that they’ve never seen anybody on the campaign. Here’s another – he was involved early. There’s nobody on the campaign that saw anybody from Russia. We had nothing to do with Russia. They lost an election and they came up with this as an excuse. And the only ones that are laughing are the Democrats and the Russians. They’re the only ones that are laughing. And if Jeff Sessions didn’t recuse himself, we wouldn’t even be talking about this subject.
WSJ: Would you consider –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You know, it was very interesting. Trey Gowdy said today – again, he’s a very straight shooter, he’s a good guy – he said, no, I understand the president. He was on Fox. He said: I understand the president. You put a man in office who really wanted that job. I actually said to him – and you know some of my lawyers, it’s not – you know, off the record, it’s not exactly – right? You know some of them.
MR. BAKER: I know Marc quite well.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, but a lot of them. But I put a man in office – and he said this. And he goes in office, then he immediately recuses himself. I fully understand the president. You know, and a lot of people do, a lot of people. He – you know, I don’t go to loyalty. I think it’s disloyal to the office of the presidency, not necessarily me. I think it’s very disloyal to the office of the presidency. And if he didn’t do that, you wouldn’t have all this stuff. You know, you wouldn’t have it.
So, just a couple of things before we finish. Just – I’m sure you love Stuart Varney. But he just came out, $4 trillion in value in the stock market. RNC has more than 80 million in cash, whereas the Democrats owe money, OK, although they’re trying to come up with their new campaign. Trust me, it won’t work. And I said it the last time (and I was wrong ?). Immigration went down 78 percent at the border – 78 percent at the border. Kelly’s done a great job.
MR. BAKER: You going to veto the Russian sanctions legislation?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I haven’t seen them yet. I haven’t seen them in final form. I will say this, Congress, if they’re going to negotiate, they make the worst deals I’ve ever seen. They made NAFTA. They made – you know, they allowed the Iran deal to go through.
WSJ: You said you’re opposed –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I make good deals. I don’t make bad deals. I make good deals. So, but, I haven’t made my – I have not seen them. I have to see.
By the way, a lot of things have taken place in that agreement that are a lot different from what it was two weeks ago – a lot of things.
MR. BAKER: You also – you brought in Anthony, obviously. Are you planning other changes – are you planning other changes in the White House? After you brought in Anthony, are you planning other changes?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I mean, we’ll see. We’ll see. I do say this, I believe we’ve done more than just about any president of the United States in six months. And I was going to tell you before, so a lot of times I’ll turn on television or I’ll read in The Wall Street Journal, right –
WSJ: Thank you.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: – what’s Trump doing? He hasn’t produced health care. I’m not even six months yet, right? So these guys went eight years – Hillary Clinton, eight years, got nothing. Obama went a year and a half, almost two years, and they had to sell their soul. They had to give away the state of Nebraska in order to buy that vote. And that was two years. I’m six months. They got to give me a little break, OK? And today we’re having a big vote, and we’ll see what happens. But today’s vote is big, because once you get in – once you’re allowed to talk a lot of –
MR. BAKER: But we can’t expect any more staff changes in the immediate – in the immediate future?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: No, I don’t think so.
MR. BAKER: No?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: But I’m very happy with Anthony. I think Anthony is going to do amazing.
WSJ: Would you consider pardons, Mr. President, given the investigation is –
PRESIDENT TRUMP: You know what? I don’t even think of pardons. Here’s why, nobody did anything wrong. Look at Jared, everybody – we do appreciate the editorial – but everybody said Jared Kushner. Jared’s a very private person. He doesn’t get out. I mean, maybe it’s good or maybe it’s bad what I do, but at least people know how I feel. Jared’s this really nice, smart guy, who’d love to see peace in the Middle East and in Israel, OK?
WSJ: Gerry, yeah, Gary and are bouncers from – (inaudible). (Laughter.)
MR. BAKER: Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
WSJ: Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks.
WSJ: Tom Barrack as Mexican ambassador?
PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m thinking about it. What do you think? Do you like him?
WSJ: Yeah.
PRESIDENT TRUMP: Tom Barrack, yes? Call him up, tell him I’m giving it to him. (Laughter.)
WASHINGTON — Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Tuesday that he’s warned Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov that the relationship between the U.S. and Moscow is bad — but it can get worse.
“I told President Putin when I saw him in the Kremlin in March and I’ve told Foreign Minister Lavrov repeatedly, ‘The situation’s bad, but believe me, it can get worse’ — and it just did,” Tillerson told reporters.
Tillerson addressed the press with a rare appearance at Tuesday’s State Department briefing, where he talked about his first six months as secretary of state and answered a few questions.
He said he and President Donald Trump are not “very happy” with Congress’ vote to sanction Russia, but “all indications are he will sign that bill, and then we’ll just work with it.”
The bill, which was approved overwhelmingly in both chambers, allows Congress to block any attempt to ease or end penalties against the Kremlin and imposes new sanctions in response to Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election.
Tillerson conceded that the vote was representative of the American people’s view “because it was made by their representatives in the Congress.” But he also suggested that Americans support the Trump administration’s overtures to establish a warmer relationship with Russia.
“I think the American people want the two most powerful nuclear nations in the world to have a better relationship,” Tillerson said. “I don’t think the American people want us to have a bad relationship with a huge nuclear power, but I think they are frustrated, and I think a lot of this reflects the frustration that we’ve not seen the kind of improvement in the relationship with Russia that all of us would like to see.”
Since Trump took office, Tillerson said, the administration has been “very clear” with Russia that “we want to work with you, but you are going to have to take some steps to address some of these concerns yourself.”
Putin has denied Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election, despite the intelligence community’s assessment that the Kremlin meddled to boost Trump over Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. And Putin’s government responded Sunday to Obama-era actions against Moscow, which included seizure of two Russian compounds in the U.S. and the expulsion of 35 Russian diplomats, by ordering a 755-person reduction in U.S. diplomatic staff.
“I think from his perspective and how he looks in the eyes of his own people, he felt he had to do something,” Tillerson said of the delayed response. “Does it make our life more difficult? Of course it makes our life more difficult.”
He added that he will meet with Lavrov, his Russian counterpart, “on the margins of the meetings in Manila” this weekend, where he will attend an Association of Southeast Asian Nations forum. The two, he said, have already spoken since Sunday’s actions.
“I would say our conversation following the actions has been professional. There’s been no belligerence,” Tillerson said. “Foreign Minister Lavrov and I understand our roles. We understand our responsibilities, and I think he’s as committed as I am to trying to find ways that we can bring this relationship back close to one another.”
BERLIN — It’s meant to be about air pollution — but it’s just as much about politics.
When more than a dozen German ministers and state premiers meet with the CEOs of the country’s auto giants Wednesday, their official goal will be to come up with a way of reducing harmful emissions of nitrogen oxide and other pollutants from diesel cars, thereby preventing bans on combustion-engine vehicles in cities.
But with Germany’s parliamentary election less than two months away and the car industry buffeted by scandal, the pressure is on the politicians to come up with results.
The meeting was called back in June but has been overshadowed by reports in recent weeks that major carmakers Volkswagen, Daimler, BMW, Audi and Porsche, colluded in technical working groups going back decades to thwart competition.
The politicians at the meeting must balance competing desires. They want to be seen as standing up to companies accused of unethical behavior and reassure voters that they will have cars clean enough to drive in cities. But they do not want to come down too hard on a powerful industry that employs some 800,000 people and enjoys a reputation as the engine of national wealth.
“This is about clearing this issue off the table before the election,” said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, director of the Center Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen. “The meeting is a campaign platform for politicians to reassure voters they don’t need to fear any driving bans.”
The recent allegations against car companies revived memories of the 2015 Dieselgate scandal, in which Volkswagen was revealed to have used special software to cheat in emissions tests. That story too is back in the headlines, with the EU’s anti-corruption watchdog OLAF finding that Volkswagen fraudulently secured €400 million in loans from the European Investment Bank to develop the engine at the heart of the scandal.
Car industry representatives are well aware that the politicians need to have something to show to voters at the end of the meeting, which is due to begin at 11:30 a.m. local time.
“They cannot come out empty-handed,” said one official from an auto industry attendee.
The gathering, hosted by Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt as well as Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks, will bring together four cabinet ministers; a state minister representing Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is on vacation; nine regional state premiers, plus mayors; the CEOs of seven car companies; and the heads of the industry’s influential lobbying groups.
Notably absent: Environmentalists and consumer advocates.
“The only actors present are those who already have a good relationship with the car industry,” Timo Lange of Berlin-based NGO LobbyControl said.
Click on the image to enlarge.

Ahead of the September election, neither Merkel’s conservatives nor her key rival Martin Schulz’ Social Democrats have an interest in the issue dominating the campaign, with both parties having enjoyed a cozy relationship with the industry. Underscoring the industry commitment, Daimler donated €100,000 each to both the SPD and CDU in the first half of this year, according to latest figures on party fundraising.
As just one example of the regular overlaps between the industry and the highest ranks of the political establishment, Merkel’s former cabinet colleague Matthias Wissmann will be at the summit representing the VDA, Germany’s national automaker association.
Afterward, Dobrindt and Hendricks are expected to present an agreement with the manufacturers about how to make diesel cars cleaner, at their own expense. The bone of contention hangs on whether this will involve only updating existing software — as widely expected — or making engine alterations to potentially millions of cars.
While Volkswagen previously argued that relatively cheap software updates suffice to bring vehicle emission levels into line with European standards, critics doubt such modifications would be effective, particularly in cities. Instead, they say hardware under the hood needs to be changed, piling on the costs for the industry.
Here are the major political players taking part in the meeting — or watching closely from outside:
The 47-year-old Bavarian is widely expected to leave his post after the election and has his sights set on the highly influential position of chairperson of the Christian Social Union (CSU) party’s group in the German parliament, according to CSU officials.
This means he has to keep his conservative party in Munich happy by staking out a position that will keep Bavaria’s carmakers profitable — while trying not to repel voters who have become increasingly critical of their elected officials cozying up to the car industry.
To try to square the circle, Dobrindt declared over the weekend that carmakers had a “damned responsibility” to clean up their act, while at the same time signaling that he would be satisfied with just software updates.
Dobrindt’s most vocal opponent is his own co-host.
Hendricks has made it no secret that she considers software updates not to be enough. However, the 65-year-old Social Democrat likely won’t be successful in pushing through her demands for more action at the summit, observers believe. Although she has taken a harder line with the sector than Dobrindt, one car industry insider this week described her as “the only one who’s credible in this whole affair.”
Inside the room, Hendricks’ fellow Social Democrat has little to lose.
The 63-year-old veteran politician is not running for reelection — and unlike Hendricks, Zypries has pushed an industry-friendly line over the last couple of days, stressing the importance of the car industry to “more than a million” jobs.
Her intervention was widely understood as an attempt by the party to curry favor with Germany’s dominant metalworkers’ union, IG Metall, which has traditionally close ties to the SPD. The union is the only group representing employees invited to the meeting.
The premiers of nine of Germany’s 16 regional states are attending the summit, with three of them considered particularly important as they represent the homes of major car companies:
Bavaria’s Horst Seehofer, who is also the leader of the CSU, recently struck his own bargain with the region’s powerful automotive lobby that will see BMW and Audi make older diesel cars cleaner in an effort to hold off a ban in Munich.
Stephan Weil, the SPD premier of Lower Saxony who also holds a seat on VW’s board, and Winfried Kretschmann, the Green premier of Baden-Württemberg who has spoken in favor of a diesel ban in Stuttgart in the past, will also be there.
Neither the SPD’s Justice Minister Heiko Maas, who is also in charge of consumer rights, nor any consumer protection groups will be at the summit.
The same is true for environmental protection groups, including the NGO ”Deutsche Umwelthilfe” (DUH), and its head Jürgen Resch, which rose to fame recently after the organization filed a lawsuit in a Stuttgart court that ended up backing efforts to ban diesel cars from the city.
The European Commission also won’t have a seat at the table — although plenty of commissioners will be interested in the outcome. Take your pick from Commissioner for the Internal Market Elżbieta Bieńkowska who’s leading EU efforts to get stricter national rules on the approval of new cars, Commissioner for Justice Věra Jourová, who has called for Volkswagen to compensate consumers affected by the Dieselgate scandal, or or even Günther Oettinger, Germany’s commissioner with a keen interest in the automotive sector.
Audience members at a classical music concert in London said that they were asked to put away their European Union flags, the Evening Standard reported Tuesday.
According to the report, several European flags were removed during a concert on Sunday that was part of the Proms, an annual summer classical music festival at the Royal Albert Hall. The performance in question featured conductor Xian Zhang, and included Beethoven’s Ode to Joy, the European Union’s anthem.
“Somebody came and told us we couldn’t put them there,” a concertgoer told the Evening Standard. “They just said it’s not allowed so I said, ‘that’s strange because flags are such a tradition at the Proms,’ but he said, ‘Not those flags.'”
A statement by the Royal Albert Hall and the BBC, the Proms’ organizers, confirmed that the flags were removed, saying they “caused disruption to the audience and performers.”
“Flags are permitted, however our primary concerns is the smooth running of the festival,” the statement read.
“On this occasion a small number of people with large flags caused disruption to the audience and performers at the front of the arena. In line with standard event management, staff intervened as they would for any disturbance in the hall.”
The U.K.’s decision to leave the EU featured earlier in the festival when pianist Igor Levit, who is German, wore an EU badge and played Ode to Joy on the Proms’ opening night.
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage retweeted the Evening Standard report with the caption: “About time!” and three Union Jack emojis.
Three out of five Brexiteers and one in three Remainers would be happy if the British economy sustains “significant damage” in order to be proven right on Brexit, according to a YouGov poll published Tuesday.
According to the poll — which surveyed 2,043 Leave and 2,248 Remain voters between July 12-19 — 61 percent of Leavers think “significant damage” to the British economy is “a price worth paying for bringing Britain out of the European Union.” Only 20 percent of Leave voters said damaging the economy was too high a price for Brexit. About 19 percent said they didn’t know.
Results were different when Leave voters were asked if they personally were willing to endure economic hardship as consequence of Brexit. About 39 percent said they are happy to risk their own or their family members’ jobs to take the U.K. out of the EU, while 38 percent said they would not risk their jobs.
On the Remain side, 34 percent of respondents said they would consider significant damage to the economy to be a price worth paying to keep the U.K. in the EU. About 38 percent said they would not consider damage to the economy, and 27 percent said they didn’t know.
Among the Remainers, almost a fifth of respondents said significant damage to the British economy was worth teaching Brexiteers a lesson, compared to 64 percent who said it was not.
The prospect of potential negative consequences for the British economy as a result of the Brexit process has created divisions within British Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet. Chancellor Philip Hammond, who voted Remain in last year’s Brexit referendum, called for a transition period to help the U.K. adapt to its new economic reality once it formally leaves the EU in 2019, while hard Brexiteers like International Trade Secretary Liam Fox have rejected any notion of a transitional deal on free movement post-Brexit.
President Donald Trump’s tweets and “emotional venting” aimed at China over the weekend can’t serve as a substitute for substantive policy discussions, the country’s state news agency said late Monday.
The Xinhua News Agency responded critically following repeated statements by Trump on China’s unwillingness to help fix the current standoff with North Korea.
“Trump is quite a personality, and he likes to tweet,” Xinhua said in an editorial, as reported by the New York Times. “But emotional venting cannot become a guiding policy for solving the nuclear issue on the peninsula.”
After North Korea tested an intercontinental ballistic missile Sunday, Trump wrote on Twitter that he is “very disappointed with China.”
“Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet… .they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk,” Trump wrote Sunday. “We will no longer allow this to continue. China could easily solve this problem!”
Xinhua’s rebuke of Trump warns against using using China as a scapegoat for America’s foreign policy challenges.
“Taking out this outrage on China is clearly finding the wrong target,” Xinhua wrote.
The editorial calls for coming up with more practical actions, and warns the U.S. to not spurn responsibility with regards to North Korea.
“If you want to solve the nuclear issue on the peninsula, the parties concerned must come up with practical actions and sincerity, not shirk responsibility,” Xinhua said.
While U.S. President Donald Trump claimed early Monday in a tweet that there was no “chaos” in his White House, voters disagree: 60 percent say the administration is running somewhat or very chaotically, compared with 33 percent who say it is running well.
That’s according to a new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll conducted last Thursday through Saturday. The survey was conducted entirely prior to Monday’s ouster of Anthony Scaramucci from his position as White House communications director, and was already in the field when Reince Priebus left the chief of staff position.
In general, voters have a low opinion of how Trump’s White House is operating. Fewer voters, 29 percent, say Trump’s staff serves him well, compared with 39 percent who say his staff doesn’t serve him well.
Republican voter respondents have a much more positive impression of how Trump’s White House is operating: 63 percent say it is running well, though more than a third, 34 percent, say it is running chaotically. By comparison, very few Democrats (12 percent) or independents (25 percent) who participated say Trump’s White House is running well — with 80 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of independents saying it is beset by chaos.
The poll surveyed 1,972 registered voters and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points.
Morning Consult is a nonpartisan media and technology company that provides data-driven research and insights on politics, policy and business strategy.
More details on the poll and its methodology can be found in these two documents — Toplines: http://politi.co/2vbZQxk | Crosstabs: http://politi.co/2vmabHg
A self-described “email prankster” operating from Britain successfully led several White House officials to believe he worked for the U.S. government, CNN reported Tuesday.
The prankster, pretending he was Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to President Donald Trump, wrote to White House Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert, inviting him for an evening out.
“Tom, we are arranging a bit of a soirée towards the end of August. It would be great if you could make it, I promise food of at least comparable (sic) quality to that which we ate in Iraq. Should be a great evening,” he wrote.
Bossert wrote back: “Thanks, Jared. With a promise like that, I can’t refuse,” adding his personal email address to his response.
In separate email conversations, the man emailed the official account of Anthony Scaramucci, Trump’s former communications director, pretending to be Reince Priebus, the former White House chief of staff, and Ambassador-designate to Russia, Jon Huntsman Jr.
The prankster, writing as Priebus, accused Scaramucci of being “breathtakingly hypocritical,” adding that “at no stage have you acted in a way that is remotely classy.”
Scaramucci responded: “You know what you did. We all do. Even today. But rest assured we were prepared. A Man would apologize.”
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told CNN that the administration takes “all cyber-related issues very seriously.”
In May, banker Jes Staley, who heads Barclays, was also the target of a prank email exchange. The prankster who approached Staley later told the Financial Times that he was in a battle with the bank over a customer issue.
Let the horsetrading begin.
With two London-based EU agencies up for grabs after Brexit, a highlight of the fall political season in Brussels will be the division of these fat spoils.
Nineteen countries submitted their bids to take the European Medicines Agency and eight put in for the European Banking Authority, the Council of the European Union said on Tuesday. Six would be happy with either agency, though under the rules of this contest they can’t have both.
These are economic and prestige prizes for the eventual winner, bringing with them jobs, tax revenues and sudden or additional influence in finance or health policy. The outcome will also show to what degree the old ways of EU decision-making have been changed in this contest, where Brussels set out highly specific criteria and organized a one-country-one-vote ballot.
The aspirants put together thick proposals, touting their cities’ charms and carrots. The merits of their cases are supposed to carry the day. But in reality politics will play a significant role, as the 27 countries take part in the EU-old spectacle of vote-trading, geographic balancing and tough compromises — as always behind closed doors yet with the details sure to leak out.
The bigger get is the EMA. The medicines agency, which carries out the highly technical work of evaluating new drugs, has a staff of 890 permanent and 36,000 experts coming in over the course of a year — and filling up hotels and restaurants — for meetings. Getting such a cluster of scientific know-how carries other benefits. The proximity of the EMA was a reason cited by big non-EU pharma companies for basing themselves in London, and some are likely to follow the agency to its new host country.
The EBA is far smaller, with under 200 staffers. But as one of the EU’s three supervisory financial authorities, it will attract bankers and law firms — and lots of tax revenue — to the winning city.
var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1501620037017');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0];                    vizElement.style.minWidth='254px';vizElement.style.maxWidth='1604px';vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.minHeight='469px';vizElement.style.maxHeight='1269px';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*1)+'px';                    var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');                    scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js';                    vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);
On paper, the EU is running a transparent process. The Commission and Council in June set out relocation criteria, and will now vet each application and present its findings in October to the Committee of Permanent Representatives in the European Union.
The 27 remaining EU countries will then choose a winner in up to three rounds of secret voting, using a scoring system that makes the way the Eurovision song contest is decided look simple by comparison. The EMA will be voted on first, followed by the EBA.
Here’s where the politics — and the drama — comes in.
Even though their votes weigh no more than any others’, France and Germany — the bloc’s big dogs — are expected to play an outsized role in this decision.
Paris and Berlin put in for both agencies, but to observers that smacked of strategic positioning. The French aren’t considered serious bidders for the EBA (Paris is already home to the securities regulator) and the Germans don’t seem all in for Bonn to host the EMA. But Germany wants Frankfurt, a banking center, to solidify its role as the EU’s post-Brexit financial center by snagging the banking authority, while Lille in France does seriously covet the EMA.
In the lead up to Tuesday’s deadline for applications, the French have quietly pooh-poohed the German option for the EBA, touting Brussels instead and saying the agency shouldn’t operate in the shadow of the European Central Bank already in Frankfurt. But there’s speculation Paris could throw its weight behind the Germans — that is, if Berlin backs Lille’s bid for the EMA, or shows itself more open to French proposals for an EU finance minister, or a mixture of those.
By another scenario, the French could be involved in a more complex deal to support Frankfurt for the EBA and an Eastern European country for the EMA in return for an existing French agency, the European Securities and Markets Authority, being strengthened.
Any number of possible deals have been mooted by curious observers and the players directly involved in this auction.
For the record, the EMA candidates are Amsterdam (the Netherlands), Athens (Greece), Barcelona (Spain), Bonn (Germany), Bratislava (Slovakia), Brussels (Belgium), Bucharest (Romania), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dublin (Ireland), Helsinki (Finland), Lille (France), Milan (Italy), Porto (Portugal), Sofia (Bulgaria), Stockholm (Sweden), Valletta (Malta), Vienna (Austria), Warsaw (Poland), Zagreb (Croatia).
The eight candidates bidding for the EBA are Brussels (Belgium), Dublin (Ireland), Frankfurt (Germany), Paris (France), Prague (Czech Republic), Luxembourg City (Luxembourg), Vienna (Austria), Warsaw (Poland).
Out of those EBA applicants, Austria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Poland can make the case on grounds of equity: These countries only have one EU agency. Germany has two, Luxembourg three and Paris four. Brussels, home to all three institutions of the EU, also hosts 15 agencies.
Making the EBA decision potentially more interesting, a required review of the EU supervisory agencies released in March proposed that the EBA could be merged with the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, which is located in Frankfurt. France doesn’t formally like this idea.
While some offers sought to attract the EBA with promises of rent-free offices — up to 25 years, in the case of Vienna — others appealed to the practical transport needs of employees, or just their desire to find a good beer (Brussels: 1,500 different brands available). Warsaw touted that Poland had “no indigenous terrorism and no known terrorist organizations,” and would offer half price on office rent for a decade. But Poland, which isn’t part of the eurozone, is a longshot for the banking authority.
Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, used Frankfurt’s EBA pitch to once again call on London bankers to move to the financial center on the Rhine. “A decision in favor of Frankfurt would ensure the continued success of the EBA’s work,” he said. “This would be true not just for the EBA but for all financial institutions based in the United Kingdom, which would all be welcome to make Germany their home.”
The EMA offers were packed with goodies as well. Jumping the gun by publishing its full proposal Monday, Finland said it would relocate several departments of the agency seven months ahead of Brexit. These include most of the EMA scientific committees, including those for veterinary, orphan and pediatric drugs, as well as manufacturing inspectors. It’s an ambitious plan since the proposed building won’t be fully complete. It would also give the half of staff who have families little time to find schools, houses or jobs for spouses.
Denmark offered to pay the rent, taxes and service fees for the new EMA building in Copenhagen for 20 years. They also would cover other costs including the payment of the consulting architect to prepare the Copenhagen Towers, the deposit to the lessor and the agency’s share of running costs (such as electricity, water and heating) for the two-decade period.
The vote on the agencies happens in November at the General Affairs Council. Countries can abstain, and they can vote for themselves. In the first round, each country has 6 points. They must give three points to their preferred bid, two to their second choice and one to their third. If no single country secures 14 first preference ballots (a majority of the 27 EU member countries), they move to round two.
In the second round, countries vote for one of the three (or more) bids with the highest votes from round one. Each country has one vote, which they must issue to their preferred bid. If no single offer receives 14 or more votes it moves to round three, where countries vote for one of the two remaining offers with the highest votes. The bid with the most votes wins. If there is a tie, the presidency will draw lots.
The only precedent dates from 2013 when the EU Agency for Law Enforcement Training (CEPOL) had to leave the U.K., which did not want to host it anymore. Seven cities applied to host the 60-staff agency: Templemore, Ireland; Veria, Greece; Avila, Spain; Rome; Budapest; The Hague; and Tampere, Finland. The voting took place at a meeting of justice and home affairs ministers in October 2013 and Budapest won.
Fiona Maxwell contributed to this article. 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) received €1.9 million in large private donations in the first half of 2017, with shareholders in BMW and Daimler providing contributions, according to government figures released Tuesday.
BMW’s major shareholder and billionaire Stefan Quandt gave €50,000 each to both the CDU and liberal FDP, and carmaker Daimler gave €100,000 to both the Social Democrats (SPD) and CDU.
The data recorded donations of more than €50,000 made between January and July. The CDU received more in large donations than any other party.
The CEOs of BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen will be in Berlin Wednesday for talks with government officials over the future of the internal combustion engine. The meeting comes against a background of controversy related to a possible carmaker cartel stretching back decades in Germany and the ongoing Dieselgate scandal.
The second most popular party with large donors overall was the FDP, which has not been in government since 2013, receiving €1.5 million. Martin Schulz’s Social Democrats and the Greens each received a single large donation of €100,000.
Neither the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, nor far-left Die Linke received any donations over €50,000.
Alongside the carmakers, some of the richest Germans and well-known companies are among the big spenders. Ralph Dommermuth, the CEO of internet service provider United Internet, donated €500,000 to the CDU in May.
Smaller donations to political parties are also recorded, but are published by parties in individual reports.
Germans head to the polls September 24.
Le Monde’s front page featured a report on a ruling by France’s Constitutional Council that the EU-Canada trade deal is compatible with the country’s constitution. Le Figaro reported on criticism of Interior Minister Gérard Collomb over the situation in refugee camps in Calais. Collomb said he will request an investigation into accusations by NGO Human Rights Watch that police used pepper spray against migrants in the camps.

FAZ ran a story on Friday’s Hamburg knife attack, reporting the Palestinian man who stabbed one person dead and injured another seven in a supermarket was radicalized. The paper noted Germany’s federal prosecutor would take over proceedings from the Hamburg prosecutor. Bild featured a story on the government’s failure to deport Afghans whose asylum requests have been rejected, despite politicians’ pledges to return them to their country of origin.

The Guardian and the Times led with stories on Anthony Scaramucci, pushed out of the White House 10 days after being named communications director. “Communications director is sacked after turbulent 10 days in the role,” the Guardian wrote. The Times: “White House in turmoil as Trump fires key aide.” The Scotsman reported that two-thirds of plans for wind farms rejected by the government are subsequently overturned. According to the paper, ministers often overrule local decision-makers, and some wind turbines are being constructed in protected conservation areas.

AD led its front page with a story about a call by MPs for the Dutch government to revise its travel advice for passengers heading to Turkey. It follows news of a Dutch citizen being arrested in Turkey for offending President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan last week. De Telegraaf reported people smugglers were using small local airports to get refugees to the U.K. The paper featured a story about two British pilots arrested in July at the Teuge airport, in the east of the Netherlands, for attempting to bring 14 Albanians to Britain.

Up to 40,000 financial services jobs would leave Britain and banks’ costs could rise by as much as 4 percent if the U.K. leaves the EU without a trade deal, consultancy firm Oliver Wyman warned in a report published Tuesday.
A hard Brexit will likely fragment the European wholesale banking market, according to the report, making it “significantly less profitable.”
As a result of this fragmentation, the consultancy estimates wholesale banks, which cater to institutional and corporate clients, would need $30-50 billion in extra capital to fund new European operations, a 15-30 percent jump.
“Banks also expect operating costs to increase, as some functions previously centralized in London are duplicated in their EU subsidiary,” the report warned, adding 2-4 percent to wholesale banks’ annual cost base, or around $1 billion across the industry.
“A long-term shift in the wider financial markets ecosystem towards the EU could move around 35,000-40,000 jobs from the U.K. to the EU in wholesale banking alone,” the consultancy said.
John Kelly and Reince Priebus had a joint — and brief — meeting with senior staff on Kelly’s first day in charge to talk about the changes afoot in the West Wing.
By Monday afternoon, Kelly was meeting with staff again, this time without Priebus. Kelly assembled senior aides in his office and laid down his rules of the road: More accountability on how jobs are done. More limitations on access to the Oval Office. More structure. Better briefings and information for the president. A White House staff where everyone reports to Kelly.
Almost the first thing White House chief of staff John Kelly did after being sworn in Monday was dismiss communications director Anthony Scaramucci, who he believed had become a distraction in the aftermath of a profanity laced-tirade to a reporter.
To both Scaramucci’s ouster and the new ground rules there was no public dissent: “I think people get it and he said he had authority from the president,” one person with direct knowledge of the conversations said.
Internally, people saw Scaramucci’s firing as a good thing, several West Wing aides said.
The new ground rules and the decision to cut Scaramucci loose made clear that Kelly, a retired Marine Corps general, is serious about taking control of President Donald Trump’s notoriously unregimented West Wing. During his first meetings at the White House on Monday, Kelly informed aides that they all report to him, said one senior White House official. “No doubt who is in charge,” the official said.
Kelly’s first day established a sharp contrast with his predecessor, Priebus, who was frequently undermined by colleagues with direct access to the president. In interviews, a half-dozen White House officials described Kelly’s quick moves to assert and consolidate control, even as the president himself tweeted, “No WH chaos!”
“Kelly is already changing the culture here,” one White House aide said.
White House officials said Kelly is planning to lock down the Oval Office, restricting the number of aides and outside visitors who can wander in. One aide said Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner have agreed to follow Kelly’s rules when it comes to visiting the Oval and sharing information with the president. “They are going to actually report to him,” the aide said.
“Old habits die hard, but I’m confident he can kill them,” one person close to Kelly said of the uphill battle he faces in monitoring access to the president.
Kelly has told associates that he believes it’s his responsibility to “straighten this out” — and that he wouldn’t have taken the chief of staff job if he hadn’t received the authority to make tough decisions, according to an outside adviser to the White House who has spoken directly to Kelly.
Press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters Monday that all White House staff would report to Kelly.
Those who know Kelly say his decision to oust Scaramucci fits with his track record of removing subordinates whom he believes are standing in the way of his mission.
“It’s not surprising to me that he would can someone,” said Mieke Eoyang, vice president at Third Way’s National Security Program, who has known Kelly for about 20 years.
Scaramucci was named to the communications director role just 10 days ago, a move that prompted the resignation of Sanders’ predecessor, Sean Spicer.
“Mr. Scaramucci felt it was best to give Chief of Staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team,” Sanders said in a statement. “We wish him all the best.”
Aides said Kelly has already accepted that he will have little control over one of the biggest impediments to order in the White House: Trump’s tweeting.
“He, within 24 hours, can pull them back into the same quagmire,” said former Nixon White House Counsel John Dean.
“The whole question is how Trump treats this. If he sees this as a reset, it’s a reset. If it’s a new crew to put blame on, then we’ll know that soon too,” Dean added.
Kelly, who previously served as Trump’s secretary of Homeland Security, inherits a West Wing engulfed by a series of federal and congressional probes into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Trump had repeatedly complained on Twitter that the FBI probe overseen by special counsel Robert Mueller is a “witch hunt” that has engulfed his administration and put his own family members into the direct line of the investigation.
The president has also publicly slammed his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, over his recusal from the Russia case, calling him “beleaguered.”
Former White House aides said other big chief of staff shakeups have been potent shots in the arm to propel a presidency forward. President Barack Obama’s final chief of staff, Denis McDonough, lasted the entire second term and was seen as helping advance a series of major policy initiatives without suffering a major scandal, all while working the entire time with a Republican-controlled Congress.
Leon Panetta helped bring discipline to an unruly first term of the Clinton administration and guided the Democrat through his reelection bid. Howard Baker’s arrival in early 1987 was widely seen as giving Ronald Reagan a big boost after more than a year mired in the Iran-Contra scandal.
But the staff turnover at the Trump White House won’t stop the drip-drip of media coverage surrounding the Russia investigation, said former George W. Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer.
“What hurts the White House more is the feeding frenzy,” he said.
Trump made it clear Monday that he has high expectations for Kelly, who has emerged as a favorite member of his administration.
The president used a string of choreographed appearances before the press on Monday to lavish praise on Kelly, marveling at his brief but “miraculous” tenure as Homeland Security secretary, a role he performed with “very little controversy.”
“He will do a spectacular job, I have no doubt, as chief of staff,” Trump gushed. “What he’s done in terms of Homeland Security is record-shattering.”
Even before he was sworn in, Kelly had emerged as a prized member of Trump’s team. Aides said the president, long enamored with generals, believes Kelly was his most effective Cabinet secretary.
Kelly was thrust into the spotlight early in the administration by Trump’s January executive order banning travel from multiple Muslim-majority countries, an order that temporarily created chaos at airports across the country.
People close to Kelly said he’ll likely take a keen interest in foreign policy issues. And while some White House aides have raised concerns about his relative lack of experience on the Hill, others noted that he has built strong relationships with members of Congress of both parties when he served as the Marine’s liaison to Capitol Hill.
Kelly has spoken twice since Sunday with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, according to a McConnell spokesman. He’s also connected with House Speaker Paul Ryan, a close friend and ally of Priebus, whose ouster was announced Friday by Trump via Twitter alongside Kelly’s appointment.
“I think it’s an amazingly good thing the president has turned to the general,” said Utah Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch. He added that Kelly’s presence might cut down on “a lot of the screaming and shouting down there.”
It remains unclear how involved Kelly will be in shaping Trump’s communications strategy. But the decision to remove Scaramucci leaves a gaping hole at the top of the White House press office — and it sends a message that Kelly has little tolerance for showboats.
Trump has suggested that he wants to have more off-the-record time with journalists. There’s a feeling among some West Wing aides that if the press engaged with Trump more they would see his point of view. But off-the-record chats could further complicate Kelly’s job, especially if the president’s off-color comments go public.
While White House chief strategist Steve Bannon became an ally of Priebus, he’s made it known that he’s happy to see Kelly elevated to chief of staff rather than Gary Cohn, director of the National Economic Council.
Bannon feared Cohn could be primed for the post if Priebus was ousted, according to a White House aide and a Bannon ally. The ally said Bannon believes that installing Kelly was a loss for the “White House Democrats,” meaning Cohn, Kushner and Ivanka Trump, because it meant that Cohn was not lined up for the job.
Still, Kushner and Ivanka Trump are said to be supportive of naming Kelly as chief of staff. “Looking forward to serving alongside John Kelly as we work for the American people,” Ivanka Trump wrote Monday afternoon on Twitter. “General Kelly is a true American hero.”
John Bresnahan, Burgess Everett and Jennifer Haberkorn contributed to this report.
Financier Anthony Scaramucci came into his new role as White House communications director threatening “to fire everybody.”
Ten days later, he was pushed out before lunch by John Kelly, the chief of staff who replaced the chief of staff Scaramucci was instrumental in pushing out.
Telling Scaramucci he needed to go was one of Kelly’s first acts after being sworn in Monday. The retired Marine general was amazed Scaramucci hadn’t been disciplined for his profane rants about other West Wing aides published in the New Yorker and couldn’t imagine him staying in the West Wing, several White House officials said. Scaramucci was spotted at the swearing-in ceremony, looking grim — but at that point still unaware of what was coming, said people familiar with how the day unfolded.
Scaramucci arrived at work Monday, Kelly’s first day, with a plan to announce changes in the communications team — a move intended to further marginalize staff brought from the Republican National Committee. Instead, Kelly told him he needed to go, meeting with Scaramucci in his West Wing office without President Donald Trump present.
“No way could he work with Kelly,” one White House official said. “His antics over the past week were crazy by any standard.”
“The president certainly felt that Anthony’s comments were inappropriate for someone in that position and he didn’t want to burden Gen. Kelly also with that line of succession,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters later in the day.
The reality, described in interviews by more than a half-dozen administration officials and others close to the White House, was even more complicated. Scaramucci’s arrival in the West Wing six months into Trump’s presidency seemed to herald a return to the visceral and brash New York ways of the campaign —and a rejection of the clubby, more buttoned-up instincts of Republican operatives brought into the administration by Priebus from the RNC. Instead, it brought more chaos to a White House defined by disorder.
Scaramucci spoke in a thick New York accent and appeared to share the profane and wheeling-dealing business ways of his boss. He brought a swagger into the White House that many other staffers lacked, staring down aides, bursting into rooms and making it known he was in charge. Sean Spicer, the outgoing press secretary, resigned after warning Scaramucci would do damage to the administration. Chief strategist Steve Bannon and former chief of staff Reince Priebus opposed his appointment, too, though Priebus tried to tell others after the fact that he loved Scaramucci. An assistant press secretary, Michael Short, resigned last week, after Scaramucci told POLITICO he planned to fire him.
“I can tell you two fish that don’t stink, that’s me and the president,” Scaramucci said when taking the job.
He threatened leakers publicly and privately and bragged about breaking White House rules of West Wing employees contacting Department of Justice officials, though it was unclear if he actually did it.
In meetings, Scaramucci repeatedly reminded aides that he wasn’t “one of them,” one White House official said. He often talked about his close personal relationship with the president and the autonomy and leeway he had to make decisions, this official said.
In the few meetings he held with communications staffers, he mostly just talked about his desire to cut off embarrassing “leaks” of anonymous quotes from inside the West Wing — and to fire anyone who had been talking to the press, according to one person familiar with the meetings. He would cut off former RNC staffers, telling them, “I know you’ve been serving two masters in this place” — meaning the president and Priebus, whom Scaramucci believed had been undermining the administration.
“I really believe he was on track to fire everybody,” said the person familiar with the meetings. “Sarah would try and keep the meeting on track, and he would interrupt to talk about leaks and firing everybody.”
Even though he wasn’t originally supposed to start his new post until August, Scaramucci began chiming in right away with communications strategy ideas — which were sometimes overruled.
For instance, Scaramucci suggested having senior adviser Jared Kushner address reporters in the White House briefing room, from behind the lectern, following his closed-door testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee on his contacts with Russian officials last year.
Sanders, however, suggested the optics of Scaramucci’s suggestion would “elevate it too much,” according to the source. Scaramucci ultimately deferred on the decision to Sanders, and Kushner delivered his statement on the driveway outside the White House. Sanders did not respond to a request for comment about the incident.
At first, Trump seemed to appreciate the bluster and braggadocio.
Scaramucci had a smooth and friendly on-camera appearance in the White House briefing room on July 21, the day his new position was announced. Spicer’s tenure had been marked by combative exchanges with reporters, and the briefings were largely moved off camera until Scaramucci took over. He ended his first tete-a-tete with the White House press corps by blowing them a kiss.
Trump “really liked” his first appearance, one person who spoke to Trump said. Scaramucci would spend much of his early days talking to Trump about personnel and policy issues.
Last week, the president attended a dinner with Scaramucci where Priebus was fiercely criticized. Trump mused with Scaramucci about the then-chief-of-staff’s shortcomings and told others he wanted Priebus and Bannon out of the White House. Bannon continued to simmer in his frustrations.
But the strange episode that unfolded last Wednesday — when Scaramucci appeared to threaten Priebus with an FBI investigation for leaking his financial disclosure, which Priebus didn’t do, set his downfall in motion. In profane comments to the New Yorker, published Thursday, Scaramucci accused Priebus of being paranoid and Bannon of twisting himself in contortions to stroke his own ego.
At first, Trump didn’t show anger about the comments, telling others privately that he agreed with some of Scaramucci’s sentiments. Priebus resigned.
The comments mortified Kelly, who demanded control over the West Wing. And Trump, soaking in several days of negative news coverage about his administration in turmoil, began to realize the comments were a bigger deal than he’d initially believed. One administration official said Trump was also told by a number of friends and outside advisers that Scaramucci was going to become a bigger problem.
The comments upset Trump’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Kushner, both of whom had wanted Spicer to stay with the administration in a different role, according to a person familiar with the couple’s thinking. “They wanted Scaramucci to come on so Priebus would leave,” one person with direct knowledge of their thinking said. “He did what he had to do, which was take out Reince.”
Another White House official said: “They’re supportive of Kelly and going to follow his lead.”
By late in the weekend, Scaramucci knew his job could be in jeopardy. One person who spoke to Scaramucci before he showed up to work Monday said he was concerned about his job security but continued to think the New Yorker comments might blow over and his job might be saved, this person said. He was planning to announce communications hires soon.
After being told he would be let go, Scaramucci seemed shaken up but stayed on the White House grounds until early afternoon, said one official. Senior staff were informed at 1:45 p.m., by Kelly, the official said. Scaramucci was not in the room for that meeting.
It’s not clear whether Scaramucci will remain in the administration. In June, he was appointed to a position with the Export-Import Bank, which he left upon assuming his White House role, and may return there, according to a person familiar with his thinking.
In the wake of Scaramucci’s dismissal, Spicer was seen in the West Wing looking “happy,” said one person who saw him. Kelly and other senior aides joined Trump in the East Room for a Medal of Honor ceremony as the news broke, and was described in pool reports “smiling and appears in good spirits.”
“Great day at the White House!” Trump tweeted late Monday.
Lorraine Woellert contributed to this report.
The European Commission said Saturday it had launched an infringement procedure against Poland over plans by the ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) to exert more control over the judiciary — but it could be some time before Warsaw really feels the consequences.
Infringement proceedings are designed as a way to sanction EU countries if they violate EU law or fail to implement regulations, directives or decisions from the European Parliament, Council of the EU, or European Commission.
The Commission said it had sent a letter of formal notice — the first step in an infringement procedure — about Poland’s recent law on the organization of ordinary courts, highlighting what it sees as a violation of EU rules because the law dictates different retirement ages for male (65 years) and female (60 years) judges. The Commission requested the Polish government reply within one month.
The infringement case is the most significant legal step yet in the EU’s long-running showdown with Warsaw. In January 2016, the Commission launched a probe into what it described as “systemic threats” to the rule of law in Poland. Separately, Poland said Monday it intended to continue cutting down trees in the Białowieża forest, despite a European Court of Justice order to stop large-scale logging, after the Commission referred the country to the court in mid-July.
Although relatively common — 986 new infringement procedures were launched in 2016, according to the Commission — Poland’s case will be particularly closely watched as the Commission grapples with how to deal with member countries experiencing what critics refer to as “democratic backsliding.”
If Poland does not reply to the Commission’s letter, or if its answers are not deemed satisfactory, the Commission could issue a second warning, called a “reasoned opinion,” allowing additional time for the country to address concerns. If after both warnings Warsaw still refuses to comply with the EU’s requests, the Commission can refer Poland to the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
In around 95 percent of cases, countries find compromises or ways to comply, according to the Commission.
If Poland fails to respond to the ECJ’s judgment at this stage, the Commission may open another infringement procedure, this time with “only one written warning” before referring the member country back to the court. The EU can then impose financial penalties on Poland “based on the duration and severity of the infringement and the size of the member state.”
Poland is not alone in facing Commission action over rule of law concerns.
Earlier this month, it launched infringement proceedings against Hungary over the country’s attempt to limit the influence of foreign-funded NGOs.
“The law interferes unduly with fundamental rights as enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular, the right to freedom of association,” the Commission wrote in its decision.
Poland could face large fines if Warsaw does not reach an agreement with the Commission and ultimately fails to comply with the court’s judgment.
In 2005, for example, the ECJ ordered France to pay a fine of €20 million, as well as an additional €57 million every six months until it complied with EU measures on fisheries conservation.
PARIS — For someone who has put European integration at the top of his foreign policy agenda, Emmanuel Macron has shown little regard for France’s big southern neighbor, Italy.
Several French moves over the past few months have been considered tactless, if not downright hostile, in Rome, where the Macron-mania that has gripped the Continent for the last three months appears to have quietened down.
The latest snub was a decision by the French president to nationalize the country’s STX shipyard in order to thwart a deal that would have given control to Italy’s Fincantieri.
Bruno Le Maire, the French economy minister, is due to travel to Rome on Tuesday to meet with his Italian counterpart Pier Carlo Padoan and try to reassure him about France’s intentions.
The future of the shipyard — at Saint-Nazaire in western France — was thrown into doubt when its South Korean owner, STX, collapsed last year. Only one bidder, Italian shipbuilder Fincantieri, came forward to buy STX’s two-thirds holding for €79.5 million. A compromise deal was reached under Macron’s predecessor, François Hollande, which would have effectively left Italy with a majority shareholding. That deal was scrapped by Le Maire, who instead suggested a 50-50 split, a move the Italians rejected.
The French decision was never going to play well in Italy, which has long complained that the EU’s free movement of capital rules are rather one-sided when applied over the Alps. In the last few years, big French companies have acquired control or significant stakes in several of their Italian competitors, whereas the opposite — so Rome claims, denouncing French “protectionism” — hasn’t been the case.
The complaint dates back at least to the Nicolas Sarkozy years, when a French group took control of Italy’s big dairy and food company Parmalat. French firms have also taken control of Italian banks, energy giant Edison, and media conglomerate Vivendi seized control of Telecom Italia.
The nationalization of STX comes after a series of political slights by Macron that have given Italian officials the impression that he has little regard for their concerns or sensitivities.
The latest came last week when the French president tried to broker peace between Libya’s warring factions, inviting to Paris the head of the U.N.-backed government and the leader of the main armed group controlling vast swathes of the country.
The attempt was met with skepticism by Libya experts, who doubt it will produce anything positive. But Italy, because of its history in Libya and the major role it plays in taking in refugees from the country, had “some grounds to complain” that it wasn’t consulted, said a French foreign policy expert who requested anonymity because he often advises the Macron government.
The French government indicated from the start that its decision to nationalize STX was only “temporary” and designed to give Paris “more time to negotiate the best possible conditions for the Fincantieri stake,” Le Maire said in a press release last week.
He’ll find the mood in Italy is defiant, as illustrated by a cartoon in the daily Corriera della Serra that showed Macron head-butting Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, as French footballer Zinedine Zidane infamously did to Italian defender Marco Materazzi in the 2006 football World Cup final.
Even the most Euro-friendly of Italian politicians have criticized Macron’s decision on STX. “It’s an industrial and political mistake. Using the narrative of national interest is demagogic and populist. He should know that it’s European competitiveness that can save France,” said Italian MEP Alessia Mosca, a member of former PM Matteo Renzi’s Democratic Party.
A French diplomat said Macron “as has become obvious since his election, is still on a learning curve” on diplomatic matters, including, he added, when it comes to European policy.
“There is no doubt that the priority should be to rebuild a strong Franco-German alliance, but does he really need to dis Italy to do that?” the diplomat said, insisting that ideas such as reforming and further integrating the eurozone would require “not only Italy’s passive consent, but some enthusiasm.”
Quite a few Franco-German initiatives of late — including a French-German decision to launch the research and development process for a future joint fighter aircraft — seem to have been taken without consulting Italy, which will be the third-largest European power once the U.K. has left the EU in 2019.
Another reason not to play with Italy’s feelings is that the country will hold an election within a year, and “you should be careful not to fuel anti-European or anti-French sentiment, which would be a gift to populists,” said a French banker who frequently deals with Italy.
Renzi, who will attempt to lead his party to victory in the election, has so far given a low-key reaction to Macron’s STX decision, noting that the French president was merely “defending his country’s interests.”
“I admire [Macron] both as a politician and as a statesman,” the former PM said in a speech on Sunday at the Versiliana cultural festival, in Tuscany.
The French diplomat, however, warned that “strengthening Europe means taking more than Germany into account. You just don’t treat Italy as if it was Malta.”
Russia won in Syria thanks to President Barack Obama’s inaction. The Middle East unraveling of the past decade is due in no small part to America not listening to her allies in the region. Never mind President Donald Trump’s Muslim-bashing rhetoric, he may just be a better partner.
For months, leaders of America’s Arab allies in the Mideast have telegraphed this view of the world, and it helps explain why the gilded palaces of the troubled, war-torn region are the few places on the planet — outside Russia — where Trump has been more popular than the president he succeeded.
This is the case Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri laid out in an exclusive interview for The Global Politico at the end of a weeklong visit to Washington. The tone was measured, but taken together his comments amount to a striking and stark indictment of Obama and much recent U.S. policy in the Middle East. “The unfortunate consequence of not acting” there, Hariri argued, has been Russia’s restoration as a regional heavyweight, the resurrection of Bashar Assad’s bloody regime in Syria and the failure to produce an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal.
“Clarity,” the prime minister said, and the hope for a more decisive approach is the reason why he and other Arab leaders prefer Trump, despite the bombast and uncertainty the first six months of his presidency have unleashed. Unstated, but by all accounts just as significant, is the expectation that Trump will take a more hawkish approach toward Syria’s backers in Iran, and Hariri repeatedly brought up concessions Obama made toward Tehran to get his nuclear deal as an example of how the U.S. lost its way in the region.

Given the bloody six-year war in next-door Syria that has come close to overwhelming tiny Lebanon, sending a flood of 1.5 million refugees into a fragile nation of just 4.5 million people and putting the terrorist group ISIS right on their border, it’s a case worth listening to — even if you think it absolves the Arab world of accountability for its own actions.
Much of Hariri’s critique of Obama comes down to naivete — and the big gap between America’s inspirational rhetoric and its actions.
On Syria, for example, Hariri said that Obama was just taken in by Assad and the Russians when he made a deal with them in 2013 to remove chemical weapons — and that Obama should have bombed Assad when the Syrian dictator crossed his “red line” by gassing his own people.
“We know their actions. We know their lies. We know what they do to people. We know how they act with people. So, when Bashar al-Assad says that, you know, he’s going to get rid of the chemical weapons, he’s not,” Hariri said. “And if you believe him, it’s your mistake that you’re believing him. And that’s why when the red line was drawn, you could have come to the same deal after your actions. But that message would have, you know, gone down way better in the region and the regime would have understood that America meant business.”
Now, he argued Trump has no choice but to deal with Moscow. “The main power today in Syria is Russia, so if you want to solve the issue of Syria, you’ve got to talk to the Russians,” Hariri said. “That was the unfortunate consequence of not acting. And now, since they are there, somebody has to talk to them.”
Hariri also faulted Obama for the big gap between the “inspirational” words in his 2009 Cairo speech suggesting a new American approach to the region — and the “nothing” that came of Obama’s efforts to forge peace between Israel and the Palestinians. And he points out that while Arab leaders opposed President George W. Bush’s 2003 invasion of Iraq, they were also strongly against the 2011 American pullout of Iraq during Obama’s presidency, a withdrawal that many in the region believe left a dangerous vacuum eventually filled by the rise of the Islamic State in both Iraq and Syria.
“When the war started in Iraq,” Hariri told me, “all your allies in the region told you not to go there. And when you withdrew, all your allies in the region told you not to withdraw. And all your allies in the region told you to do something about Syria, but you didn’t. So, I believe that talking to your allies, listening to your allies, they’re there. They know better.”
It is, of course, far easier to criticize the United States for its blundering about the Middle East than it is to explain the fiendishly complicated politics of Lebanon today, a generation after a civil war so devastating it killed nearly a quarter-million people and came to define the bloody extremes of sectarian conflict.
Take Hariri’s own situation. At age 47, he is an accidental prime minister, a politician who never expected to be one as a direct result of the assassination of his father, Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri, by a massive car bomb in Beirut 12 years ago. The case is still being investigated by an international tribunal, but the killers are widely believed to have been connected with the Iranian-backed militia Hezbollah and its ally the Assad regime in Syria, as Hariri reminded me in the course of our conversation.
Which makes it all the more incredible that Hariri, a Sunni with strong ties to the Saudi royal family, is today prime minister of a government in Lebanon that includes Hezbollah — a ruling coalition that was put together in December 2016 after three years of gridlock, with the Hezbollah-linked Christian leader Michael Aoun as president and Hariri as prime minister. Hezbollah is easily the strongest armed force in Lebanon, and no deal was possible without it, but it means Hariri must perform an agonizingly complicated political dance every day — or risk his government falling apart.
When I asked a few smart Mideast political hands what I should ask Hariri before our interview, one responded, “Hezbollah, Hezbollah, Hezbollah,” although another pointed out that Hariri could hardly be frank on the subject. “He cannot say what he thinks about Hezbollah; otherwise there will be no government,” this expert said. “He is a hostage; the whole country is a hostage.”
The awkward dance was on full display during Hariri’s Rose Garden news conference with Trump on Tuesday. Though the headlines were about Trump’s scathing criticism of his own attorney general, Jeff Sessions, Mideast hands were quick to pick up on an apparent Trump gaffe when the president bragged about Lebanon being “on the front lines” fighting Hezbollah — and seemed not to know that Hezbollah was in fact a part of the government of the man standing next to him.
It was a tough trap for Hariri: Acknowledge the screw-up and he’d offend Trump at a moment when the U.S. administration has threatened to cut desperately needed foreign aid or agree with the American president on the need to fight Hezbollah and risk blowing up his own government.
In the end, Hariri handled it deftly, brushing off Trump’s mistake and later telling reporters that he was sure from their private meeting that the president had understood the situation correctly. Hariri left Washington not only with his foreign aid intact but a State Department pledge for an additional $140 million to help with Syrian refugees.
In our interview, Hariri remained resolutely pragmatic whenever the subject of Hezbollah came up. He’s very clear that the choice was, in effect, to team up with the group tied to his father’s killing or risk another civil war. After three years of Lebanon having no president at all due to its internal gridlock, he argued, what real option did it have?
“We saw that if we continue this, we’re going to end up like Syria or we’re going to end up like Iraq,” as he put it.
But every day is a challenge. While he was in Washington, in fact, Hezbollah attacked along Lebanon’s borders with Syria to take back territory held by the al Qaeda-affiliated Al Nusra Front and ISIS in Syria, a decision Hariri acknowledged the Lebanese armed forces had nothing to do with. “Hezbollah decided unilaterally to … go into Syria without taking the advice of the government,” he told me. (Hezbollah, of course, is already in Syria in a major way — fighting Sunni rebel groups on behalf of the Assad regime and Iran.)
As for Washington’s demands for more sanctions against Hezbollah and the growing impatience of Iran hawks in the Trump administration, Hariri made the case that the United States would be better off focusing not on the Iranian proxy in his government — but on Iran itself.
Besides, he acknowledges, that’s a matter for someone other than fragile Lebanon to sort out.
“Our thought is, you know, Hezbollah is a regional issue. It’s not a Lebanese issue anymore. Hezbollah is in Syria and Iraq and Yemen, so people should not focus on Hezbollah that it’s a Lebanese entity only, but it’s something regional. In order to solve this issue, or to even work around it, it has to be a regional understanding. So, I am the prime minister of Lebanon. I’m not going to enter into that regional conflict. All I want is to … safeguard my country, because we’ve been through civil war. We’ve seen it. We’ve paid 200,000 people who got killed in the civil war.”
Lebanon, as Hariri reminded me throughout the interview, is a small country in a tough neighborhood. He’s not in Washington to preach, but to ask, and his mission is not to tell the great powers what to do about Syria or Hezbollah or Iran.
“Lebanon is a small country, and we have a saying: ‘As long as you know your size, you know, just try to protect what you have,’” he said. “And I think this is what we’re trying to do. And I believe this policy has saved Lebanon so far.”
Ireland’s new prime minister, Leo Varadkar, on Monday said he hoped the U.K. could find a way to stay in the European Union.
“I still hope that it won’t happen,” Varadkar said when asked about Brexit during a visit to Waterford, the Irish Times reported. “Brexit is a British policy, not an Irish one.”
The Irish PM said he thought the U.K. staying in the single market and the customs union “would be the best outcome for Ireland and Northern Ireland and Britain.”
Last week, Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat expressed doubts about Brexit. “For the first time, I’m starting to believe that Brexit will not happen. I am seeing hopeful signs that indicate things will change,” he said.
Former Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern on Friday dismissed speculation about a possible Irish exit from the EU, saying Ireland was not “that mad.”
The European Union expressed doubt about the result of an election in Venezuela, which took place Sunday amid mass protests and violence.
In a statement, the EU’s diplomatic service and the European Commission said the bloc had “serious doubts” about the outcome, and condemned the “excessive and disproportionate” use of force.
“Venezuela has democratically elected and legitimate institutions whose role is to work together and to find a negotiated solution to the current crisis. A Constituent Assembly, elected under doubtful and often violent circumstances, cannot be part of the solution,” the statement read. “It has increased division and will further delegitimize Venezuela’s democratically elected institutions.”
Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament, went further.
“We will not recognize this election,” he said in a statement Monday. “It is very clear that the current regime is clinging to power. The will of the people is to change the regime. It is necessary to go to elections now.”
Venezuela is embroiled in a political and economic crisis. Since protests against leftist President Nicolás Maduro’s government began in April, dozens of protesters have been killed and hundreds more injured.
On Sunday, Maduro claimed victory in an election for an assembly that will draft a new constitution. But the opposition claim the Maduro regime is destroying the country’s democratic institutions.
Venezuela’s election body said turnout was 41.5 percent, but opposition leaders said most Venezuelans abstained, the BBC reported. At least 10 people were killed in protests on Sunday.
On Friday, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence called for the restoration of democratic institutions in Venezuela. He said the Trump administration would respond with strong economic actions if the Maduro regime went forward with the Constituent Assembly.
After one of the most tumultuous weeks in what has already proven to be a turbulent administration, President Donald Trump declared on Twitter Monday morning that his White House is not in chaos, despite what outside critics and commentators have said.
“Highest Stock Market EVER, best economic numbers in years, unemployment lowest in 17 years, wages raising, border secure, S.C.: No WH chaos!” Trump wrote online, ticking off the accomplishments he and his allies have regularly listed in defense of the administration.
Nominating and securing the Senate confirmation of Associate Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch has been the high-water mark of Trump’s administration thus far, vindication for many Republicans who hesitantly supported the president over concerns that Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton might get to fill the seat left vacant by the death of conservative justice Antonin Scalia.
Many of the strong economic numbers for which Trump has claimed credit were already trending upward under the administration of his predecessor, former President Barack Obama.
Despite Trump’s insistence that his White House is running as normal, upheaval has been the norm inside his administration from almost the very beginning. White House chief of staff Reince Priebus’s resignation last week came one day after newly-hired communications director Anthony Scaramucci attacked him in vulgar, on-the-record remarks to a New Yorker reporter. It was Scaramucci’s hiring that prompted White House press secretary Sean Spicer to resign earlier this month.
Priebus’s replacement as chief of staff, former Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, was sworn in Monday morning.
Other prominent departures through the Trump administration’s first six months also include former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who was fired weeks after the president’s inauguration, and former FBI Director James Comey, an Obama appointee whom Trump fired with the bureau’s Russia investigation weighing on his mind.
Aside from personnel issues, Trump’s administration was dealt a major policy setback late last week when the Senate failed to advance legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare, falling a single vote short thanks to opposition from Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) Trump has fumed on Twitter in the days since, writing online that Republicans would be “total quitters” if they moved on to other legislative priorities and threatening to cut critical Obamacare subsidy payments.
Trump’s surprise announcement last week banning transgender troops from serving in the U.S. military also launched a barrage of bipartisan criticism at the White House. The move seemed to catch the Pentagon, the Senate and House armed services committees and even some members of the administration by surprise and was not made with any plan in place to implement the president’s announced shift.
Amid a fresh wave of sanctions and renewed tension between the United States and Russia, Vice President Mike Pence reassured NATO’s Baltic member states that the U.S. stands firmly behind its mutual-defense commitment in the face of stepped-up aggression from Moscow.
“The United States stands with the nations and people of the Baltic states — and we always will. We stand with our NATO allies in our commitment to your security,” Pence said Monday in remarks at the headquarters of Estonia’s defense forces. “Today we stand where East meets West — on a great frontier of freedom. No threat looms larger in the Baltic States than the specter of aggression from your unpredictable neighbor to the east.”
Pence’s remarks came before members of the U.S., French, British and Estonian militaries and followed a meeting between the vice president and the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania at which he said, “Under President Donald Trump, the United States stands firmly behind our Article 5 pledge of mutual defense — an attack on one of us is an attack on us all.”
Pence offered optimism that the U.S.-Russia relationship might improve but said that any warming would come with a shift in Moscow’s behavior. The vice president reaffirmed President Donald Trump’s commitment to signing sanction legislation targeting Russia, passed overwhelmingly last week by Congress.
In response to the forthcoming sanctions measure, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the U.S. to reduce the number of diplomats stationed in Russia by more than 700. The dueling diplomatic maneuvers marked a new low in already frosty relations for the former Cold War rivals.
Trump’s presidency brought with it the possibility of improved relations with Russia after the president spent much of the 2016 campaign speaking warmly of Putin and expressing optimism that he would be able to build a strong relationship with the Kremlin. Instead, relations have worsened amid investigations into Russia’s efforts to interfere in last year’s election, continued Russian military activity in Ukraine as well as Moscow’s support for Syrian dictator Bashar Assad.
Trump, too, has shifted his rhetoric in regards to Russia, drawing a relatively tougher line even if some critics would prefer him to take an even more aggressive approach. And after characterizing NATO as “obsolete” and questioning the U.S.’ willingness to comply with the treaty’s all-for-one, one-for-all defense agreement, Trump has more recently reaffirmed his nation’s commitment while also urging member countries to increase their defense spending.
“Under President Donald Trump, the United States will continue to hold Russia accountable for its actions — and we call on our European allies and friends to do the same,” Pence said Monday in Estonia. “President Trump has made it clear: America is open to a better relationship. But the president and our Congress are unified in our message to Russia — a better relationship, and the lifting of sanctions, will require Russia to reverse the actions that caused sanctions to be imposed in the first place.”
German newspapers led with debate over who should be held responsible for a knife attack in Hamburg last Friday, in which a Palestinian man killed one person and wounded seven others in a supermarket. The suspect’s asylum application had been rejected last year, leading politicians to call for a swift deportation of asylum seekers whose request has been denied. The two federal government partners, Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) and the Social Democrats (SPD), blame each other for not having prevented the case.

French President Emmanuel Macron is reviewing his strategy and the functioning of his centrist movement La République En Marche, Le Figaro wrote, after recent opinion polls suggested his approval rate dropped 8 percent since he took office in May. Les Echos reported that Macron is facing difficulties as he seeks to put in place promised reforms on the social protection of independent contractors and claimed his election pledge will not in fact improve their situation.

The British government is at odds over what a post-Brexit transitional implementation period will look like, the Guardian reported. British Trade Secretary Liam Fox told the Sunday Times there was no consensus over whether people will continue to move freely between the European Union and the U.K. during a transitional period. Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt appeared to contradict Fox by insisting that ministers were united in avoiding a “cliff edge.” Speaking to BBC Radio Four on Monday, he called for a “business-friendly” Brexit that would allow hospitals to recruit staff from EU countries “as they do now.” Senior Conservative MPs have urged ministers to stop publicly setting out their demands for a transitional deal, saying it could make Brexit negotiations with the EU more difficult.
The Times, meanwhile, reported that Chancellor Philip Hammond said the U.K. would not slash taxes and regulations to undercut European rivals. Hammond said Britain’s social, economic and cultural model would remain “recognizably European” after it left the EU.

Le Soir reported that hotel booking website Booking.com pays low taxes in Belgium through a “clever system of tax optimization.” The website’s Belgian subsidiary recorded a profit of €1.2 million, but most of the revenue is channeled back to headquarters in the Netherlands, out of sight of the Belgian tax authorities.
De Morgen focused on a call from Belgian NGOs and climate experts to ban diesel cars from city centers in the wake of a ruling in Germany last Friday, in which a Stuttgart court backed an effort to ban diesel cars from the city.

This article was updated. 
Reince Priebus looked battered. It was Monday, October 10—the morning after the final presidential debate—and our eyes met as I boarded a Southwest Airlines flight from St. Louis to Washington, D.C. It had been an extraordinary weekend: On Friday night, the biggest bombshell of the 2016 campaign dropped when the Washington Post published a decade-old audio recording on which Donald Trump made lewd comments about groping women. Speaker Paul Ryan disinvited Trump from a unity event in Wisconsin scheduled for the following day, and Priebus, then the chairman of the Republican National Committee, quietly made the case to Trump and his associates that he should quit the race. Trump refused. The Sunday debate, 48 hours after the tape’s release, was dominated by discussion of Trump’s history with women. He dismissed his recorded remarks — “grab them by the pussy,” Trump had said, boasting that his celebrity status allowed him to get away with aggressive advances on the opposite sex — as “locker room talk.”
Priebus occupied a window seat, a pair of staffers to his left. The chair behind him sat empty; my instinct was to grab it and start firing questions through the slit at his left shoulder. But after studying Priebus — the slouched posture, the uncharacteristically rumpled suit, the groaning bags under his eyes — I decided it might backfire. Whether it was pity or strategy, or a bit of both, I settled in two rows back, deciding it would be better to talk upon landing in Washington.
It was an eventful flight: Ryan, while we were at 30,000 feet, had told House Republicans on a conference call that he wouldn’t be defending the president anymore — and urged them to do whatever was necessary to survive in their districts. Meanwhile, there were reports Priebus would hold his own call with RNC members to discuss ousting Trump. Priebus was understandably not keen to discuss any of these developments. But he seemed to appreciate my earlier gesture. When I greeted him, just beyond the entrance to the jet bridge, his staffers tried to shut down any interview. Priebus told them to back off. “It’s OK,” he said, offering the sort of forced half-smile you see at hospital visitations. “Go ahead. Shoot.” We walked out of the terminal and past the baggage claim, covering all of it: the tape, the debate, Ryan, the RNC and what (if anything) it could do at this point. Priebus asked twice to speak off the record, which I allowed. But his most telling comment — in retrospect — came at the end of our conversation, after he explained that the RNC had no mechanism to remove Trump as its nominee.
“Look,” he said, stepping into the sunlight outside Reagan National Airport, his staffers loading up an idling black Chevrolet Suburban. “We don’t get to pick the nominee. And we don’t get to just walk away from him, either.”
By “we,” the chairman was referring to the RNC and the broader party leadership. But it seems obvious now — in studying his approach to Trump throughout the primary season, the general election and during his tumultuous 27-week run as chief of staff, the shortest in history — that Priebus was also talking about himself. As head of the party, Priebus never foresaw the real estate mogul running, much less becoming its standard-bearer. He cracked jokes about Trump early on and flashed outrage at some of his incendiary rhetoric. But as Trump gained momentum and won the nomination and, later, the presidency — and as the RNC chairman emerged as the bridge between him and the Republican Party — Priebus could never bring himself to abandon Trump.
It’s not without irony that some will hold him responsible for Trumpism — Priebus should have kicked Trump out of the GOP debates, some critics suggest — seeing how the RNC chairman would have personally loved to see Scott Walker or Marco Rubio as the party’s nominee. Trump was the last choice of the party establishment, which Priebus embodied. It became clear, however, that Republican voters had other ideas — and Priebus made it his mission to ensure a level playing field. He ignored calls to remove Trump from debates after he threatened to run as an independent, and bent over backward to make the reality TV star feel welcome in the GOP. Priebus knew he would be accused of sabotaging the party, but he was unwavering in the belief that it was his job to be a facilitator and an ambassador, not a kingmaker.
His friends had mixed feelings about the chief of staff position, and some cautioned Priebus against taking it. After all, he had inherited a penniless, disorganized, technologically bankrupt Republican Party in 2011 and transformed it by 2016 into a financial behemoth with adequate field and data operations. On his watch, the GOP had kept the House, taken back the Senate and now won the presidency; why not ride into the sunset, spend time with his family and cash in on those triumphs?
The fateful answer: Because Priebus couldn’t just walk away. He felt a sense of loyalty to Trump, and more acutely, an enduring responsibility to the party and the country. Plus, the second-most prestigious office in the West Wing was beckoning. Priebus jumped at the job.
It was a mismatch from the start. As RNC chairman, Priebus had two primary responsibilities: dialing for dollars (typically three to five hours each day) and sorting out disputes among his 168 members to keep everyone happy. Key administrative functions were mostly handled by other RNC staff, including Priebus’ own chief of staff; some associates feared that Priebus’ skill set simply would not translate to the new job. Making success all the less likely was the Wisconsinite’s disposition: laid back, naturally soft-spoken and nonconfrontational, a classic people pleaser. Priebus kept a mini-fridge stocked with Miller Lite in his RNC office and would later hold occasional Friday happy hours in his West Wing suite, inviting officials from across the building to grab a can of beer or a Solo cup of wine and commiserate about the week that had been. This calm, consensus-minded approach made Priebus a beloved party chairman, and Republicans held out hope that it would make him a good chief of staff. But it didn’t. Trump trampled Priebus from Day One, sending out Press Secretary Sean Spicer, a longtime Priebus ally, to deliver a demonstrably false rant about the inaugural crowd size. Trump resented the idea that his chief of staff was there to tame him, and resented even more the notion that Priebus was the conduit to a Republican Party he had conquered.
But Priebus was the conduit. By firing him, Trump has severed a critical connection to his own party — not simply to major donors and GOP congressional leaders, but to the unruly, broader constellation of conservative-affiliated organizations and individuals that Priebus had spent five years corralling. He was effortlessly tagged as an “establishment” figure—inevitably, given his title atop the party — but Priebus was a specialist at coalition-building. He convened regular meetings as RNC chairman with influential players in the conservative movement, picking their brains and taking their temperatures on various issues. That continued as chief of staff: Priebus spoke by phone with prominent activists, such as the Family Research Council’s Tony Perkins, at least once a week. There is a meeting scheduled at the White House this Wednesday of the Conservative Action Project — an umbrella group that brings together leaders from across the right — and Priebus was planning to attend. It was this kind of systematic outreach that made Priebus, whatever his flaws as a West Wing manager, an essential lieutenant for Trump.
There is no question, however, that Priebus’ absence will echo loudest on Capitol Hill — particularly in the speaker’s office. Ryan’s team had heard whispers for months of Priebus’ possible departure, but the news was nonetheless a dagger, especially on the heels of a health care defeat and at the dawn of tax-reform season. Ryan and Priebus, both Green Bay Packers fans and local beer loyalists, have been friends for decades; Ryan’s former chief of staff, Andy Speth, was Priebus’ college roommate at the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Priebus was the first call Ryan made when things got hairy this year, and vice versa. Working with a West Wing that contains few other true allies — and with a volatile president who has viewed him suspiciously ever since the speaker accused him of making “the textbook definition of a racist comment” about a Hispanic-American judge — Ryan saw Priebus as his staunchest ally and bunker mate. And now he’s gone.
In his place is John Kelly, a retired four-star Marine general and respected disciplinarian whose mandate is to succeed where Priebus failed: imposing order and organization on a chaotic White House. Kelly, however, is not a political figure; he did not support (or oppose) Trump’s campaign, and is not known to hold strong political or ideological inclinations. Looking around Trump’s inner circle, there is Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci, a political novice who in the past donated to Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton; chief strategist Steve Bannon, who used Breitbart to try and burn the Republican Party to the ground; National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn, a lifelong Democrat; Ddirector of Strategic Communication Hope Hicks, who has zero history with Republican politics; and Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, a pair of self-professed Manhattan progressives. Of Trump’s closest advisers, only Mike Pence has any association with the Republican Party.
This no longer seems accidental. Trump has, since taking office, consistently referred to Republicans as though he is not one himself — it’s invariably “they” or “them.” Unlike past presidents of his party, Trump entered the White House with few personal relationships with prominent Republicans: donors, lobbyists, party activists, politicians. This liberated him to say whatever he pleased as a candidate, and, by firing Priebus, Trump might feel similarly liberated. The fear now, among Republicans in his administration and on Capitol Hill, is that Trump will turn against the party, waging rhetorical warfare against a straw-man Republican Party whom he blames for the legislative failures and swamp-stained inertia that has bedeviled his young presidency. It would represent a new, harsher type of triangulation, turning his base against the politicians of his own party that they elected.
Things have not yet escalated to that point. But some, including officials in his own administration, took the dismissal of Priebus as a signal that Trump is willing to go rogue against the Republican Party. Only a day after announcing Kelly as his new chief of staff, the president let loose on Twitter, calling out Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell for not changing the Senate’s filibuster rules and saying Republicans “look like fools” for not doing so. He also tweeted that Democrats are “laughing at” the Republicans. In a final taunt, Trump tweeted that Republican senators would be “total quitters” if they move on from health care following last week’s failed repeal vote.
More and more, Trump talks as though there are Democrats and Republicans — and him, a party of one. If unchecked, this poses an existential threat to the Republican Party. But it’s not Priebus’ problem anymore. He is officially unemployed. And with a few weeks of summer vacation remaining, chances are that he — along with his wife and two young children — will soon be on an airplane, heading someplace where no reporter will be waiting to ask him about Donald Trump.
By one measurement, last week was a good one for Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner.
President Donald Trump’s daughter and son-in-law had been double-teaming for weeks to persuade him to oust chief of staff Reince Priebus, pushing for a new chief who could “professionalize the West Wing,” according to multiple White House officials. On Friday, Trump finally announced he’d replace Priebus with John Kelly, his secretary of Homeland Security, starting Monday.
That victory followed Trump’s appointment a week earlier of financier Anthony Scaramucci, a campaign surrogate and donor, as communications director, a move the couple also strongly supported.
But if Ivanka Trump and Kushner, socially liberal former Democratic donors, remain influential voices with Trump on personnel decisions, they have so far had little effect on his policies.
Last week they were blindsided by the president’s tweet saying he planned to ban transgender people from serving in the military, according to several White House aides, a major coup for conservatives who had been quietly lobbying the administration on the issue for months.
White House officials said the first daughter was surprised by her father’s posts; in the past, Trump has been a supporter of gay rights. Ivanka Trump, according to these officials, learned of the decision when she saw her father’s tweet on her phone.
The decree came less than a month after the first daughter tweeted, in honor of Pride Month: “I am proud to support my LGBTQ friends and the LGBTQ Americans who have made immense contributions to our society and economy.” And it spurred another wave of liberal rage directed at Ivanka Trump.
For all the talk of a White House war between New York City liberals and traditionalist conservatives, it was the latest example of the limited influence the moderates have been able to wield on policy.
Six months ago, few would have thought the president would have been circumventing his daughter to deliver victories to fiscal and social conservatives—but that’s precisely what happened with the transgender military ban, which the Pentagon has put on hold pending review.
Now, as Ivanka Trump runs up against some of limits of her power in the White House, she appears to be narrowing her objectives—and disappointing those progressives who had pinned their hopes on the president’s family members exerting more of a moderating influence on his presidency.
“Actions speak louder than words,” said Sarah McBride, national press secretary for the nonprofit Human Rights Coalition. “Either Ivanka is ineffective in her advocacy within the building, or her voice doesn’t matter to the president as much as she hopes it does.”
Ivanka Trump has had some victories. While she lost out on persuading her father not to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, she had much more success in limiting a religious liberties executive order to abortion and procreation issues, cutting out many other possibilities that would have angered the LGBT community.
“She’s in there doing what she can,” said R. Couri Hay, a publicist and a longtime friend of the Trump family. “It’s unrealistic, unfair and cruel to expect her to change climate policy and pre-K and women’s issues in six months.”
But Ivanka Trump — who once met with Planned Parenthood CEO Cecile Richards to discuss a needle-threading way to potentially fund the organization — is staking out her reputation on getting a child care tax credit passed in a Republican Congress as part of tax reform, and fighting for paid family leave to be included in the budget.
She has told allies that she wants to be held accountable solely on those issues she is actively working on — uphill battles that will count as major victories if she is successful — and the success of a World Bank fund she helped start, geared at helping female entrepreneurs gain access to capital. She has also said she wants to make ending human trafficking a White House priority.
Kushner, for his part, remains focused on projects that are peripheral to the White House’s main domestic agenda, like introducing technological innovations to the federal government. In the first six months of the administration, he has steered clear of the legislative battles that have been the meat of the work of Trump’s policy shop, focusing instead on relations with Mexico, China, Canada and the Middle East.
Ivanka Trump has explained to critics that she doesn’t want to ruin her credibility with Republicans, whose support she will need, by being perceived as what she sometimes refers to as a “super-lib” and expressing her personal disagreement with the administration’s most conservative policies.
Meanwhile, she desperately wants to lower expectations of what she can achieve in an administration where she views herself as one person on a large team — even though other White House officials said she still has access to the president whenever she desires it. Allies have bucked up her spirits by telling her that her legacy will look better in hindsight if she is successful in moving the needle on her stated issues. And as she navigates the unique role of working-daughter-in-the-White House, she is reading Eleanor Roosevelt’s biography for guidance and inspiration.
Both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner declined to comment for this story.
People close to her say Ivanka Trump is aware of the criticism hurled at her — and sometimes frustrated by the misunderstanding of the limits of her power.
From her newly renovated, all-white office in the West Wing, Ivanka Trump often fields messages from progressive friends pushing her to speak out on their pet issues. Actor Leonardo DiCaprio messaged her ahead of the climate decision, begging her to do more to intervene.
She’s no newcomer to the difficult balancing act. In the early aughts, as she sought to make a name for herself in New York society, she had to simultaneously embrace the family brand while trying to distance herself from the gaudy reputation of the Trump name, already unwelcome in the upper echelons of Manhattan society.
One well-known socialite who was friendly with Ivanka Trump put it bluntly: “Everyone knew that Jared’s father was a felon and her father was a buffoon, but you looked past that because they stood on their own two feet and were sophisticated and presentable. They were accepted despite their parents. Now, there’s no separating the two.”
But friends and acquaintances who knew Ivanka Trump before her move into politics said they are not surprised that she has remained publicly in lockstep with her father. “I know her well enough to know her relationship with her father, which is that she will never, ever, go against the grain,” said one former fashion-world friend who has socialized with Ivanka for years but has not spoken to her since she moved to Washington.
Another close friend of the family, who has known Ivanka Trump her entire life, said: “She wanted to be the apple of her father’s eye. There’s no question, she worked hard to be the perfect image her father wanted.”
In the wake of one of the most tumultuous weeks in Trump’s presidency, his daughter had a private lunch with the United Nations secretary-general Friday to discuss economic empowerment for women. She’s made similar diplomatic excursions, traveling to Berlin in April to join German Chancellor Angela Merkel for a women-themed summit and meeting with female entrepreneurs in Saudi Arabia.
It’s a world apart from her father’s domestic policies — and one more in line with the first lady-like role that she bristles at. The prime movers behind Trump’s decision to ban transgender people from serving in the military were two of the House’s most conservative members: North Carolina Republican Mark Meadows and the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, Jim Jordan.
After the failure of an amendment that would have stripped Pentagon funding for gender reassignment surgeries, the duo approached Defense Secretary James Mattis. They discussed a number of options, including a two-year delay on the implementation of Obama administration policy guidelines that permitted Pentagon funding for the surgeries. When that path lead nowhere, they took their case directly to the White House, where they spoke with several officials including Marc Short, the director of legislative affairs.
Inside the White House, the issue was so closely held — and resolved so quickly — that just a handful of West Wing aides were aware of what was transpiring. In addition to Kushner and Ivanka Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, a Catholic evangelical with a history of pushing religious liberty policies, had no inkling of what was underway.
Meadows and Jordan had also corralled a group of conservatives capable of sinking the appropriations bill, making it clear to the White House they were willing to do so if the funding issue wasn’t resolved. “They were frustrated with Mattis and DOD, and the White House was sympathetic to them on the policy,” said a senior White House aide. Neither Meadows nor Jordan responded to a request for comment.
Meanwhile, Christian conservatives such as Tony Perkins and Gary Bauer were also lobbying the Trump White House, a factor that boosted the congressmen’s cause, according to a second senior White House official.
Their requests ran the gamut: While the congressmen asked the White House to resolve the funding issue, which had riled both fiscal and social conservatives, some Christian leaders came asking for the blanket ban the president delivered on Wednesday. But even they were surprised when Trump came down on their side. “I wish the Republican Congress was as bold as the president is on a wide range of issues,” said Steve Scheffler, president of the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition. “But unfortunately, like on health care, they don’t seem to be.”
Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, in an interview with Fox News radio, cheered the president for “showing that the bottom line is the bottom line is the bottom line.”
The other bottom line: Ivanka Trump is aware she needs a real win — not just starting a conversation about paid family leave that may or may not materialize in a final budget — to win back credibility.
Her old circles are skeptical. When asked what her view was on Ivanka Trump, the fashion designer Charlotte Ronson wrote in an email: “Fortunately, I don’t know her well enough to give any good accounts.”
WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump’s top advisers are huddling behind the scenes in a bid to craft a set of economic measures meant to punish China, two administration officials told POLITICO.
Trump’s aides met over the weekend and will continue the discussions on Monday, with a final decision expected as soon as this week, the officials said.
They said there are a range of options on the table, including trade restrictions. Other possibilities include economic sanctions. But the officials said it’s too early to say what the president might decide.
The escalating situation in North Korea, including Friday’s latest intercontinental ballistic missile test, has heightened the urgency of crafting a cogent China strategy. The president believes China is not doing enough to stop North Korea from building a nuclear weapon that could strike U.S. soil — and he has long complained, both in public and in private, that the Chinese are engaging in unfair trade practices.
“I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk. We will no longer allow this to continue. China could easily solve this problem!” Trump said on Twitter over the weekend.
Trump’s frustrations about the ballistic missile test, and a sense that Chinese officials aren’t committed to helping on North Korea, are making it more likely for him to act, one White House adviser said.
Some of Trump’s harder-line aides — like policy adviser Stephen Miller, chief strategist Stephen Bannon and trade adviser Peter Navarro — have long pushed the president to take a tougher line against China.
Trump’s advisers have been meeting for months to discuss trade issues. The president is weighing targeting Chinese steel imports with tariffs, quotas or a mix of both. But officials said the current discussion isn’t centered solely on steel-related trade restrictions.
A White House spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Trump suggested in a recent interview with the Wall Street Journal that a decision on steel imports wasn’t imminent. The Commerce Department is still finalizing an investigation that is expected to cite national security concerns as a rationale for imposing trade restrictions on steel imports.
KIEV — The “Chocolate Ass” got the last laugh — for now, anyway.
Last month, on a TV talk show hosted by Mikheil Saakashvili, the former Georgian president who found a new political home in Ukraine, a woman in battle fatigues performed a doleful melody, backed by a rock ensemble.
“In the near east, blood flows like a river/ The Chocolate Ass laughs at the nation/ The country is drowning in tears and blood/ And the abomination sits on his throne,” sang Olha Tereschenko, a veteran of Ukraine’s war against Russian-supported separatists in the eastern Donbas region.
The “Chocolate Ass” was Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, who owns the country’s largest confectionery company. To avoid any doubt, the performance was accompanied by video of a laughing Poroshenko. Saakashvili sat in the audience with what appeared to be alternating looks of contentment and seriousness.
The performance showed how badly relations have soured between two men who have known each other since their student days at the same Kiev university in the late 1980s and became political allies in Ukraine just a couple of years ago.
A few days ago, Poroshenko hit back with a much harder blow than a satirical song. He signed an order stripping Saakashvili of the Ukrainian citizenship he had granted only two years earlier. That left Saakashvili — a former head of state — stateless, since he lost his Georgian passport when he became Ukrainian.
What lies behind the latest twist in the men’s fraught relationship depends on who’s telling the story. Saakashvili says he is being punished for speaking out against rampant graft under Poroshenko. The president’s allies insist the move was legally justified but also speak of Saakashvili as an impulsive, ungrateful figure who turned on the man who brought him back from the political dead.
But it seems unlikely Ukraine has heard the last of Saakashvili, who was in the United States when he heard of Poroshenko’s move but told POLITICO he is determined to return to his adopted homeland “by land, sea or air.”
Officially, Saakasvhili was stripped of Ukrainian nationality because he failed to provide details in his citizenship application of a criminal case against him in his native Georgia.
But figures across the Ukrainian political spectrum — including rivals of Saakashvili such as former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky — said the move smacked of a witch hunt.
“We consider such actions of the government to be a reaction to political opposition posed by activists,” a group of MPs wrote in an open letter Friday. “Such governmental actions by a ruling party are in conflict with the fundamental principles of democracy and return Ukraine back on the path to authoritarianism.”
As students at Kiev’s Institute of International Relations, the two men were “not good friends, but we knew each other,” Saakashvili told POLTICO by telephone from New York.
They built up their relationship after reaching senior government positions in their respective countries — Saakashvili as Georgia’s Western-oriented reformist president following the 2003 Rose Revolution and Poroshenko in various ministerial positions.
“Poroshenko always expressed admiration for what we achieved in Georgia,” Saakashvili said. “He always looked up to me and mentioned me as a role model.”
In 2013, Saakashvili left Georgia after his party suffered a defeat in the parliamentary election and he finished his second term in office. He taught at Tufts University in the United States and was spotted hanging out among the hipsters in Brooklyn.
Meanwhile, the new Georgian government announced it was opening a criminal case against Saakashvili for abuse of power while in office — an accusation Saakashvili, backed by Western officials, said was politically motivated.
His career seemed to have stalled. But then Saakashvili received a new lease of political life from Poroshenko, who was elected as Ukraine’s post-revolution president and in 2015 appointed his old acquaintance as a government adviser. The men not only shared a past and stated commitment to reform but a common enemy: Russian President Vladimir Putin, who sent his military across the Georgian border in 2008 and the Ukrainian one in 2014, in the wake of the Maidan revolution, annexing Crimea and stoking a violent conflict in the eastern Donbas that runs hot to this day.
In a major surprise Poroshenko then named Saakashvili governor of the southern Odessa region in May of that year.
“Mikhail Saakashvili is my friend from our student years,” Poroshenko wrote on Twitter. “I remember him as a strong and decisive person, and I have reason to trust him.”
Saakashvili’s appointment was seen either as a stroke of genius or a grave error, as he came with a heavy load of political baggage.
On the one hand, he had the reputation of a can-do reformer — the architect of Georgia’s transformation from failed state to showroom of Western economic and political reforms.
“He came to Odessa as an outsider, with a proven track record, and little fear,” said one Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity.
But Saakashvili also had a reputation for being polarizing, authoritarian and impulsive. Some blamed him for letting Georgia get sucked into the war with Russia in 2008.
“I know that many of Ukraine’s international partners warned Poroshenko that Saakashvili was quite unpredictable,” said Alyona Getmanchuk, the director of Kiev’s Institute of World Policy. “The Europeans told him he was making a mistake.”
Saakashvili’s reforms in Odessa made only modest headway. Critics said he quickly lost interest in the daily nitty-gritty of running a far-flung province. Saakashvili and his team said they were being blocked and undercut by Kiev.
Soon Poroshenko himself started to become the focus of Saakashvili’s ire. The president, he said, oversaw a system in which graft permeated all levels of government.
Last November, Saakashvili resigned as Odessa governor, lashing out at what he said was the “scum” and “filth” in government, and said that Poroshenko had consistently lied to him.
Out of office, Saakashvili upped attacks on Poroshenko and the government and said he was being blocked from the major news broadcasts. He started his own talk show on the ZIK television channel, the “Chocolate Ass” song being just one of his broadsides.
This seemed to hit its mark.
“Politically, Saakashvili became really a destabilizing voice in Ukraine,” said Olexiy Haran, a professor at Kyiv Mohyla Academy University who works closely with the government. “He was totally uncontrolled and emotionally uncontrolled — I would say he was a psychopath.”
Reconciliation attempts failed, although accounts differ as to when these took place and what was said.
Saakashvili says he and Poroshenko met on the sidelines of a European People’s Party conference in Malta earlier this year. The Georgian showed up unexpectedly and took a seat directly behind the Ukrainian president.
“The last time I had a conversation with him was in March,” Saakashvili said. “He met me basically nonstop for two hours and urged me to stop opposing him — and basically I said, ‘no.’”
People close to Poroshenko’s administration would not say whether this conversation took place. But they said the two men met a few weeks before Georgia’s parliamentary election last year, in which Saakashvili’s United National Movement suffered defeat.
“Saakashvili called himself ‘a member of Poroshenko’s team,’” one person said. “He asked for support on Georgian elections, and asked [Poroshenko] not to call him a ‘loser,’ because it could harm his campaign.”
“When he got everything and unfortunately for him lost Georgian parliamentary elections, he called himself an opposition leader to the Ukrainian president,” this person added.
Saakashvili said he found out through Ukrainian news reports about his loss of citizenship while he was at his uncle’s home in upstate New York.
“I was surprised at the treacherous way [Poroshenko] did this, while I was out of the country,” Saakashvili said.
What comes next is anyone’s guess. Saakashvili said he would wait for political forces to mobilize and create a mass movement for his return, at which point he would return to Ukraine.
 
He may have to wait for such a groundswell of support. A demonstration backing Saakashvili on Kiev’s main square on Thursday drew just a few hundred protesters.
For many, Poroshenko’s move against Saakashvili seemed ill-advised. The Georgian’s newly formed political party is polling at less than two percent. Moreover, Saakashvili is barred from running for president, as he hasn’t lived in Ukraine for 10 years.
“It all looks strange and illogical,” said Getmanchuk. “Saakashvili doesn’t pose a political threat for Poroshenko.”
For some observers, Poroshenko’s decision was not so much directed at Saakashvili, as it was at other challengers ahead of a presidential vote scheduled for 2019.
“More likely this is a case of Poroshenko clearing the decks for looming elections, and messaging to other potential political opponents as to his own ruthless political nature,” political analyst Timothy Ash wrote.
Whatever the case, the drama seems far from over.
“If you pick a fight with [Saakashvili], he’s going to come right back at you — he doesn’t give up,” said the western diplomat. “I don’t think they’ve thought this through completely.”
A Russian official on Sunday said the order to remove U.S. diplomats from Russia was “retaliation” for the Senate’s approval of increased sanctions last week — and promised more payback for similar actions in the future.
The Senate voted 98-2 last week to impose greater sanctions on Russia, as well as North Korea and Iran. And, in response, Russia ordered the U.S. to reduce its diplomatic presence there.
On Sunday, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on ABC’s “This Week” that the retaliatory move was “long, long overdue.”
“After the Senate, the day before yesterday voted, or rather on the 27th of July voted so overwhelmingly on a completely weird and unacceptable piece of legislation, it was the last drop,” Ryabkov said.
“If the U.S. side decides to move further towards further deterioration, we will answer, we will respond in kind,” he added. “We will mirror this. We will retaliate. But my whole point is don’t do this, it is to the detriment of the interests of the U.S.”
Asked if further retaliation could take the form of sanctions, Ryabkov declined to speculate.
“We have a very rich toolbox at our disposal. It would be ridiculous on my part to start speculating on what may or may not happen,” he said. “But I can assure you that different options are on the table and consideration is being given to all sorts of things.”
BERLIN – Germany’s Social Democrats, trailing in the polls eight weeks ahead of the country’s parliamentary election, fired up attacks Sunday on Chancellor Angela Merkel and her conservatives.
“Many people are fed up with Angela Merkel and her political style,” the SPD’s Family Affairs Minister Katarina Barley said in an interview with Welt am Sonntag newspaper.
Barley’s attack came as a new Emnid poll, published by Bild am Sonntag newspaper, showed support for the Social Democrats down one percentage point at 24 percent — 14 points adrift of Merkel’s conservative bloc.
The Social Democrats are junior partners in a “grand coalition” with Merkel’s conservatives but hope party leader Martin Schulz will oust the veteran chancellor in the September 24 election.
The SPD enjoyed a surge in support after Schulz was announced as the SPD’s candidate earlier this year, running neck and neck for a while with Merkel’s camp, but the chancellor’s party recovered with a series of strong performances in regional elections.
Last week, Merkel left for three weeks of vacation — a move widely understood as an attempt to keep the campaign temperature low.
“I don’t believe that Ms. Merkel’s strategy of just ignoring political issues will work out,” Barley said. Referring to Merkel’s campaign slogan from 2013, Barley added: “Just saying ‘you know me’ won’t be enough anymore.”
With Merkel away, the Social Democrats also took aim at one of her ministers. SPD Secretary-General Hubertus Heil took to Twitter to call Merkel’s conservative Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt — who also had an interview published on Sunday — the worst political appointment “since Caligula made his horse a senator.”

Customs checks after Brexit will cost the United Kingdom more than €1.1 billion per year and lead to massive delays at British borders, according to an analysis by consulting firm Oxera.
“This is an extremely conservative estimate,” Andrew Meaney, a partner at Oxera, cautioned in a summary.
“It does not account for the economic costs of the uncertainty involved” or other factors such as extra staff, he wrote, adding that the “full cost is likely to be much higher.”
Since the European Single Market, which guarantees the free movement of goods, capital, services, and labor inside the European Union, was established in 1993, goods leaving the U.K. for the EU and vice versa have not been subject to regular customs checks.
In March 2019, the United Kingdom is scheduled to leave the EU. Repeatedly, industry officials have warned of the “catastrophic” consequences if physical customs checks are reintroduced following the U.K.’s departure from the bloc.
BERLIN — Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt warned Sunday that scandals plaguing Germany’s car industry could damage the overall reputation of products made in the country.
“The car industry now has a damned responsibility to rebuild trust and fix mistakes it made,” Dobrindt told Bild am Sonntag newspaper.
Just two years after the Dieselgate scandal, Germany’s carmakers are in the spotlight once again, facing allegations that the top five companies colluded secretly to thwart competition.
Dobrindt’s comments came three days before he hosts a so-called “diesel summit” in Berlin, bringing together national ministers, regional state premiers and CEOs of car manufacturers for the first in a series of closed-door meetings to discuss how to cut pollution from diesel cars.
During the meeting, he expects to receive an “acceptable offer from the car industry” on how to reduce emissions at the expense of producers, Dobrindt said.
Earlier this month, Der Spiegel magazine reported that for decades, Germany’s top five auto companies — Audi, BMW, Daimler, Porsche and Volkswagen — have held regular, and secret, meetings to discuss technical standards, suppliers and pricing to foil their competitors, raising questions about collusion.
Dobrindt said Sunday he first learned about those meetings through media reports, adding that “until today, my ministry has not received any information on the accusations that authorities are examining.”
On Wednesday, the CEOs of Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche, BMW, Daimler, Ford Germany and Opel, as well as the head of the sector’s influential lobbying group, Verband der Automobilindustrie (VDA), will attend the summit, Dobrindt told Bild am Sonntag.
The British cabinet has not made a decision on whether people will continue to move freely between the European Union and the U.K. for a transitional period after Brexit, International Trade Secretary Liam Fox said.
“If there have been discussions on that, I have not been party to them,” Fox told the Sunday Times, dismissing reports that the cabinet had reached a consensus on such a deal. “I have not been involved in any discussion on that, nor have I signified my agreement to anything like that.”
On Friday, Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond told the BBC that after the U.K.’s departure from the EU in 2019 “it will be some time” before full controls on migration can be introduced, suggesting that the country’s relationship with the bloc may look similar to its current one for up to three years after Brexit.
“I am very happy to discuss whatever transitional arrangements and whatever implementation agreement we might want, but that has to be an agreement by the cabinet,” Fox shot back at Hammond in the interview published Sunday.
“It can’t just be made by an individual or any group within the cabinet,” he said.
U.S. President Donald Trump slammed China for failing to restrain North Korea, which in recent days has expanded the reach of its nuclear arsenal, despite past administrations striking what he described as favorable trade deals with Beijing.
“I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk. We will no longer allow this to continue. China could easily solve this problem!” Trump wrote in a series of tweets on Saturday.
During the presidential campaign, Trump lambasted China and said its leaders were ripping off American workers. But after his electoral victory last November, he seemingly sought to build a relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping, at one point hosting Xi and his wife for a diplomatic visit at Trump’s at Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.
Trump said then that China could use its influence over North Korea to convince the country to tamp down its nuclear ambitions.
Despite those efforts, North Korea has continued its nuclear weapons experimentation, conducting another missile test as recently as Friday night.
The first six months of the Trump presidency have been a whirlwind of Russia-related news, with revelations about the Kremlin’s attempt to sway the election and the Trump campaign’s possible role in the effort surfacing nearly every day. But imagine for a moment a world in which the Russia scandal didn’t exist. Pretend that Trump didn’t fire FBI Director James Comey, or that Don Jr. never met with a Russian lawyer and a former Soviet spy promising dirt on Hillary Clinton. Forget that Michael Flynn and Paul Manafort had to register retroactively as foreign agents, or even that Trump said he wouldn’t have hired Jeff Sessions if he’d known the attorney general would recuse himself from the Russia probe.
What you’re left with is still a remarkable amount of other administration scandals—from the State Department’s stay at a Trump hotel to Jared Kushner’s disclosure problems—that would have been major news any other year, with any other president in the White House. Here are a few to remember.
The Emoluments Clause of the constitution says the president cannot “without the consent of the Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title, of any kind whatever, from any king, prince, or foreign state.” This means that many of Trump’s continued business dealings—he has refused to divest from his real estate company—could very well be illegal: For one, Trump has put his name on properties all over the world—from the Philippines to Saudi Arabia—and receives foreign money from his overseas holdings constantly.
There’s also the issue of the Trump International Hotel in downtown Washington, D.C., which has become a popular destination for foreign diplomats. A week after the November election, about 100 foreign officials were invited to an event at the property, during which they toured the building and sipped champagne. While Trump promised before taking office that he’d donate all profits earned from foreign governments to the U.S. Treasury, he doesn’t appear to have kept that pledge. So far, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Turkey have all held events at the hotel, but there’s also the trickier matter of how to account for individuals linked to foreign governments. A Trump Organization pamphlet published in May said that “putting forth a policy that asks all guests to identify themselves would impede upon personal privacy and diminish the guest experience of our brand.”
In January, the nonprofit group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) welcomed Trump to the White House by suing him on the grounds that he was already in violation of the Emoluments Clause. The Justice Department responded with a 70-page legal brief defending the president’s conduct and calling for the suit’s dismissal.
During the 2016 presidential campaign, 15 women claimed to have been sexually assaulted by Trump, going on the record to accuse him of groping them—in planes, offices, hotels, even golf and tennis tournaments. The then-presidential nominee vehemently denied any accounts of misconduct, and suggested the women weren’t attractive enough to merit his attention. But in January, Summer Zervos, a former “Apprentice” contestant who had accused Trump of kissing her, grabbing her breast and thrusting his groin toward her in 2007, but whose accusation Trump had dismissed as “totally made-up nonsense,” sued Trump for defamation. Zervos’ suit claims that Trump’s malicious response to her and others — he repeatedly called her and other women who came forward “liars” — resulted in “threats of violence, economic harm, and reputational damage.” In March, Trump claimed that as president, he should have immunity from Zervos’ suit. It will serve only to “distract a president from his public duties to the detriment of not only the president and his office but also the Nation,” wrote his lawyer, Marc Kasowitz, in a filing. In July, Kasowitz filed a motion for dismissal. It hasn’t yet been granted.
The first lady’s bio on the White House website, as first published in January, noted her modeling accolades and charitable causes, but also included what many saw as a blatant endorsement of her products. “Melania is also a successful entrepreneur,” the bio read. “In April 2010, Melania Trump launched her own jewelry collection, ‘Melania™ Timepieces & Jewelry,’ on QVC.” The episode was added to the growing evidence of blurred lines between business and public service in the Trump administration. Facing backlash, the White House quickly removed the QVC plug from the website.
When Nordstrom announced it would stop selling Ivanka Trump’s clothing line in February, Trump took to Twitter to defend his daughter. Later that week, not even three weeks after the Melania QVC debacle, presidential aide Kellyanne Conway delivered a ringing endorsement of the brand herself from the White House briefing room, urging Americans, “Go buy Ivanka’s stuff.” The rules are clear on this: Executive branch employees can’t use public office for private gain, to endorse any product or for the private gain of friends. The Office of Government Ethics wrote that “there is strong reason to believe” the action had violated the Standards of Conduct, and Conway was supposedly reprimanded for the mistake by Trump himself — but no disciplinary action was taken.
In February, the Wall Street Journal wrote that Trump’s then-nominee for head of the Commerce Department, Wilbur Ross, planned on keeping $8.7 million to $41.5 million worth of his investments, primarily in companies that invest in shipping and real estate financing. While Ross said he would sell at least 80 other funds and assets, the holdings he refused to give up include a private company registered in the Cayman Islands, an oil tanker company and a co-investment with the Chinese government. Ethics watchdogs and Democratic lawmakers highlighted potential conflicts of interest, given the Commerce chief’s regulatory power and involvement in foreign trade negotiations, but despite these concerns, Ross was confirmed for the position later that month. In his new role, Ross sits on the committee on foreign investment, which deals extensively with China; and he has broad authority under the Oil Pollution Act “with regards to oil-spill response and environmental restoration,” which could have implications for his investments in the medium-range oil tanker operating and owning company, Diamond S. Shipping. Ross has pledged not to take any action that would benefit one of his investments.
Trump might travel to Mar-a-Lago — the historic Florida estate his aides have branded the “Southern White House”—to get away from the stresses of 1600 Penn, but guests travel to Trump’s Palm Beach resort to get closer to power. And they’re willing to pay Trump handsomely for the privilege: After the inauguration, the club doubled its initiation fee to $200,000. It’s not only foreign dignitaries that stay at the resort hoping to brush shoulders with the president and his staff — wealthy clubgoers also include New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft and actor Sylvester Stallone.
Ethics watchdogs aren’t comfortable with the arrangement — not to mention how expensive it is to transport a president, his aides and security detail down to Palm Beach (or, more recently, his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey) weekend after weekend — but security officials are also wary: Trump has been known to conduct sensitive business with foreign dignitaries on the terrace, in open view of Mar-a-Lago guests, who can enter the property without a background check. And then there’s that time a guest happily posted a photo online of the soldier who carries the nuclear football.
In March, Democrats proposed legislation titled “Making Access Records Available to Lead American Government Openness Act,” (fondly known as the “Mar-a-Lago Act,” which would force Trump to release the resort’s guest records. In July, CREW won its own ethics lawsuit demanding that the Department of Homeland Security release Mar-a-Lago’s records by this fall.
In February, Federal Election Commission reports revealed that Trump’s campaign paid $12.8 million to his own companies over the course of the 2016 election. Those millions were funneled to Trump’s TAG Air, for campaign trips; Trump Tower, for rent and utilities; Trump Restaurants; Trump Ice, for beverages and office supplies; Trump’s Florida club, Mar-a-Lago, his golf clubs; and his son’s Charlottesville vineyard, for rent, catering and lodging.
And as one election ended, soliciting campaign donations for the next one quietly began. A Wired analysis this July found that Trump had already spent $600,000 of his 2020 reelection campaign funds on rent at Trump Tower, legal consulting for the Trump Corp., golf at Trump’s golf course, Trump’s hotels and Trump’s water bottles.
In May, Jared Kushner’s sister Nicole Meyer pitched Chinese investors in Beijing on a Kushner development project in Jersey City, telling them that if they put at least $500,000 into the project they would be rewarded with EB-5 investor visas (also known as “golden visas”) to immigrate to the United States. Kushner, whose role in the White House includes advising on China policy, stopped running his family’s company in January; but Meyer mentioned her brother by name at the Beijing event, reminding guests he was now serving in the White House and adding that the project “means a lot to me and my entire family.” Critics immediately sounded the alarm: It appeared the Kushners weren’t averse to using their high-ranking White House connections to buoy their business. They pivoted quickly, canceling future visits to China in the wake of intense scrutiny and issuing an apology.
But in July, CNN discovered that Kushner’s name has again been used to lure Chinese investors for the same New Jersey development, this time in online promotions written by businesses working with Kushner Companies. He’s referred to as “the celebrity of the family,” and in a post that has since been removed, as the guy who “got Trump elected.” CNN also found a post by the Chinese company Qiaowai, also recently deleted, again mentioned Kushner and his connection to the White House, adding, “Given this, in the Trump era, the EB-5 program is likely to receive support and be expanded.”
When asked by CNN about the web pages, a Kushner Companies spokesperson said they were unaware of them and would be “sending a cease-and-desist letter” to the companies who used Kushner’s name without his approval.
In May, a Wall Street Journal investigation revealed that Kushner neglected to disclose large stakes in the real estate investment platform Cadre, valued at $800 million, when he filed his government financial disclosure form. Kushner’s ties to Cadre mean he’s also entangled in business with Goldman Sachs and billionaires George Soros and Peter Thiel, fellow investors in the company. Also absent from his form? Nearly $1 billion in loans. In July, CREW filed a lawsuit against Kushner, asserting, “It is impossible to ensure that senior government officials are behaving ethically if they fail to disclose key assets.”
In the wake of the July revelation that Kushner had joined his brother-in-law, Donald Trump Jr., in a mysterious meeting with a Kremlin-linked lawyer and former Soviet spy, Kushner released a revised form. It revealed, among other things, that he and his wife, Ivanka Trump, made at least $19 million in outside business; that they shared an art collection worth $5 million to $25 million; that Kushner had left out more than 70 assets worth more than $10 million from his first form; and that, although he has recused himself from “particular matters” in sectors that might affect Cadre, his previously undisclosed stake in the company is valued at between $5 million to $25 million.
Financial disclosure forms are commonly revised, but former Office of Government Ethics Director Don Fox told the Wall Street Journal that “the number of omissions on Mr. Kushner’s initial form was unusually high.” Ethics experts worry that failure to disclose potential conflicts of interest mean Kushner could make policy decisions motivated by business strategy without public accountability.
Ivanka’s first financial disclosure went public in July, revealing that even though she’s stepped away from leadership roles within the family business and her fashion brand, the first daughter has received at least $12.6 million in income from her business ventures since early 2016. In fact, Jared and Ivanka’s most recent disclosures show the couple continues to cash in from a wide-ranging business empire worth as much as $761 million as they carry out their government service — a big problem, according to ethics experts warning about the potential for conflicts of interest.
In July, the president traveled around the country for Made in America week. He rode firetrucks, waved flags, and most of all heralded the importance of buying and manufacturing in America. But soon it became clear that he doesn’t practice what he preaches — his daughter Ivanka’s clothing line is not made in America, and his restaurants and hotels are actively hiring more foreign workers. Similar hypocrisies came to light when, during the election, Trump placed emphasis on buying American while it was revealed that dozens of other goods he produced were manufactured overseas. In her defense, Ivanka’s brand president, Abigail Klem, told the Washington Post that manufacturing goods in the U.S. “at a large scale is currently not possible”; and in 2015, Trump defended his China-manufactured ties by arguing that “[the Chinese] have manipulated their currency to such a point that it’s impossible for our companies to compete.”
In July, a FOIA request by the Washington Post revealed that the State Department in February shelled out $15,000 to stay in Trump’s new Vancouver hotel when members of the Trump family traveled there for the hotel’s grand opening. The Secret Service, which handles security for domestic travel, has already spent millions on stays at Trump Tower in New York and at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago property in Florida. But this was the first real evidence of the State Department spending taxpayer money at Trump-branded properties. The State Department didn’t say explicitly why it accompanied the Trumps, telling the Post, “Embassy and consulate personnel work with the Secret Service to provide assistance on security matters as necessary for conditions in the particular host country.”
When Mark Zuckerberg flew to Glacier National Park in July, the Facebook CEO was to be shown around by two of the park’s climate experts, Daniel Fagre and Jeff Mow — but at the last minute, top officials at Trump’s Department of the Interior made sure the tech billionaire wouldn’t be meeting either of them. The administration defended the cancellation as a move to save money, saying it would be a waste of government resources to send Zuckerberg into the park with such a large group; but Fagre, a research ecologist, and Mow, who focuses on Glacier’s retreating ice sheets, were puzzled. The tour was kept quiet on social media, too, after the Trump administration forbade National Park staff from posting about it online.
To many, this was interpreted as another of the Trump administration’s moves to undermine the long-held scientific consensus that man-made climate change is happening. Since Trump took office, the Interior Department and EPA made revisions to their climate change websites, deleting much of the substantive content on environmental risks. In June, dozens of top Interior officials, including those focused on climate and other environmental issues, were involuntarily reassigned to unrelated departments; and in July, Trump nominated climate-change skeptic Sam Clovis, a campaign aide with no experience in science, to be the head of science at the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Sarah Holder is an editorial intern at POLITICO.
Britain’s approach to Brexit negotiations is beset by “inconsistency and lack of coordination” that “beggars belief,” EU Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan said in an interview broadcast Saturday.
“It seems that the United Kingdom still have to come to terms with their negotiating mandate and this is happening at a time when the clock is ticking,” Hogan, a former Irish government minister, told Ireland’s RTÉ Radio One.
Hogan said he was “very disappointed” with the pace and content of the last round of Brexit talks, which took place in Brussels earlier this month.
He said there was just “a bit more than a year” for the two sides to reach a deal, as the accord would have to be ratified by EU leaders and the European Parliament before Britain is due to depart at the end of March 2019.
“It does beggar belief to see the type of inconsistency and lack of coordination that we see at the moment from the U.K. side,” Hogan said.
Hogan also said talks about the next multi-year EU budget were “complicated” by Britain’s impending departure. He said unless EU countries were willing to fill the gap left by Britain’s withdrawal, cuts will be needed in all programs, including to agriculture, the EU’s single biggest item of spending.
One solution “floating around” was for EU countries to agree to raise the amount of their contributions from 1 percent to 1.1. percent of Gross National Income, Hogan said.
“The Member States at the end of the day decide the budget and the Commission implements the will of the Parliament and the will of the Council,” he added.
Estonia, a tiny Baltic nation dwarfed by neighboring Russia, isn’t a premier American tourist destination. But when Vice President Mike Pence arrives there on Sunday he’ll be just the latest in a parade of senior Washington officials to visit in recent months.
Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) led a congressional delegation to Estonia in December and so did Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) in June. America’s top NATO general dropped by in March, followed soon after by House Speaker Paul Ryan in April. President Barack Obama himself gave a September 2014 address in the Estonian capital of Tallinn.
Why all the fuss over a nation of just 1.3 million with a landmass roughly half the size of Maine? The short answer is Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Situated across a 200-mile long border with Russia, Estonia — invaded by the Soviet Union in World War II and occupied for 70 years — is seen by strategists as a likely target for Russian aggression that could test the NATO alliance. Estonia is home to some 300,000 ethnic Russians whom many fear Putin could incite or take action to “protect.” And a recent RAND study showed a surprise Russian offensive could reach Tallinn within 36 to 60 hours. The unease is especially high ahead of a massive Russian war game this fall which experts see as a dry run for a possible invasion of the Baltics.
Such fears will be the main focus of Pence’s visit, according to a senior administration official who previewed the vice president’s trip to reporters, which will include a meeting with Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and an address to Estonian Defense Forces HQ.
“The vice president’s speech there will underscore … the administration’s commitment to NATO, including Article 5,” the official said Thursday.
Many Estonians believe the only thing keeping Putin at bay is Article 5, the mutual defense guarantee of the NATO treaty, to which Estonia is a signatory. President Donald Trump has questioned Article 5 in the past, though he has more recently affirmed his commitment to defending fellow NATO members.
In that sense, Estonia — an Eastern European democracy aligned with the West — has become a powerful symbol for the NATO alliance itself and one that many security-minded U.S. officials are eager to embrace, providing comfort not just to Estonia but to all its neighbors fearful of Moscow.
But Estonia’s clout is also the result of a sustained influence campaign in Washington D.C. The country’s defense minister visited lawmakers on Capitol Hill in June, while its foreign minister scored face time with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in March. Current and former Estonian government officials are some of Europe’s most visible at think tank events, skillfully schmoozing Washington politicians and journalists.
“They definitely punch above their weight,” said Michael Carpenter, who served as a foreign policy adviser to Vice President Joe Biden and then as the Pentagon’s top Russia official. “They’re definitely good at working the political scene in Washington.”
All three Baltic nations — Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia — have stepped up their diplomatic contacts with the U.S. in recent years as a revanchist Russia builds up its forces on their borders. The three nations typically arrange joint meetings with administration officials, such as a confab with Secretary of Defense James Mattis in Lithuania in May. Pence will also meet Lithuania and Latvia’s heads of state in Tallinn.
The countries together host thousands of NATO troops stationed along Russia’s border as part of the alliance’s “enhanced forward presence,” which has grown significantly since Putin’s March 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula and his ongoing military support for a pro-Russian separatist movement in eastern Ukraine. Those acts prompted Obama’s trip to Tallinn, where he assured nervous Estonians that the U.S. would defend them against Russian aggression.
Over 11,000 troops participated in an annual exercise known as SABRE STRIKE in the Baltic region last month, war gaming NATO’s response to a potential Russia invasion.
Pence has already met with Estonia’s president, Kersti Kaljulaid, during a February trip to Europe where he met all three Baltic heads of state. But U.S. officials describe Estonia as the brightest of the Baltics, thanks to its strongly pro-U.S. posture, robust defense spending and relative sophistication of its economy.
“Both from the e-commerce and the business side of it, the military aspects, and sharing best practices, Estonia is really leading the way in that region of the world,” the senior administration official said.
The tech-savvy nation — the birthplace of Skype and sometimes called “e-Stonia” — has moved governance onto the cloud. Each citizen has a chip-enabled national ID card which allows them to file taxes, complete public school forms and even vote online.
But given President Trump’s complaints that other NATO member countries are not paying their “fair share” to support the NATO alliance, U.S. officials are particularly aware that Estonia is among just five countries to meet a commitment by all members to spend at least 2 percent of their GDP on defense. Neither Latvia nor Lithuania has reached the 2 percent mark, although both plan to meet their targets in 2018.
“There is a certain degree of envy that we get meetings that other people have a hard time getting,” said ex-Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who stepped down from his position in October. “But that’s what comes from meeting your commitments.”
“It’s kind of a no-brainer from the U.S. point of view to visit a country that meets that commitment,” he added.
Serving as Estonian president from 2006 to 2016, Ilves, a bow-tie wearing fluent English speaker who grew up in New Jersey and was educated at Columbia University and the University of Pennsylvania — remains connected to and active in the D.C. foreign policy establishment, making him an effective ambassador for the country.
Although he is now out of office, Ilves remains engaged in U.S. foreign policy circles as a fellow at Stanford University and a member of the advisory board of the Alliance for Securing Democracy — a new transatlantic project aimed at countering Russian information warfare. The project’s roster is a bipartisan who’s who of prominent Washington national security insiders, including top advisors to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.
Even though its modest economy doesn’t allow for a high-priced lobbying operation — the country’s GDP is nearly half that of Lithuania — Estonia’s government works the U.S. capital from its embassy, a turreted, eggshell-white row house near Dupont Circle.
Marki Tihhonova-Kreek, the embassy’s No. 2 diplomat, said she meets “on a daily basis” with Trump administration officials — including a White House visit earlier this week to help plan Pence’s visit. “My desk officer at the State Department knows I’m a regular.”
Former U.S. officials confirm that Estonia casts a wide net across government agencies, knocking on any available door to enhance its alliance with the U.S.
“They did that even when Estonia wasn’t technically part of my office’s purview,” said Dr. Evelyn Farkas, the Pentagon’s deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia from 2010-2015. “They knew we were the drivers of the policy vis-à-vis Russia.”
During the Obama years, Carpenter said, Estonians courted Biden more than other countries of its size.
“A lot of people don’t think to reach out to the staff of the vice president,” Carpenter said. “They were very, very good at checking in on a regular basis.”
Current and former Estonian officials also pop up in disproportionate numbers at think tank events and foreign policy conferences in Washington, and pay regular calls on Washington reporters to press their case.
“Some embassies around town really know how to work the scene,” Carpenter said. “The Estonians are a good example that works the whole scene.”
That hustle has paid off. Four U.S. M1A2 Abrams tanks and 15 Bradley infantry combat vehicles arrived in February, while two F-35 jets, the latest generation of American fighters, conducted training exercises there in April.
Those additions come as the Baltics turn a wary eye to major Russian military exercises, known as “Zapad” or West, this September, which could involve as many as 100,000 soldiers operating across the border.
“They are going to [simulate] attacking NATO member states. This is pretty clear,” former Estonian Defense Minister Margus Tsahkna told POLITICO in April. “This is a full-scale exercise.”
Top Russian officials have denied any intention to invade or subvert Estonia, and say the growing troop presence there is a dangerous provocation. But some analysts said the Estonians have avoided self-defeating hysteria about the Russian threat.
“Washington is always a little bit skeptical about those who can be emotional or hyperbolic about threats from the east,” said Ian Brzezinski, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for Europe and NATO during the George W. Bush administration. “The Estonians have figured out how to thread that needle.”
Earning the country goodwill is its skill in combatting Russian cyber and intelligence operations.
Russia targeted Tallinn with a huge cyber attack in 2007, targeting its parliament, banks, broadcasters and newspapers following a dispute with Moscow over the relocation of a Soviet war memorial.
Since then, Estonia has bolstered its cyber defenses and know-how. The country is home to a NATO cyber center and hosts an annual cyber war game called “Locked Shields,” which U.S. European Command participated in last year.
Ilves boasts that his government is quick to grab Russian intelligence operatives who cross into his country border.
“We have a really good counterintelligence,” Ilves said. “We’ve arrested as many moles as Germany.”
The European Commission followed through Saturday on a promise to launch a legal procedure against Poland as soon as a new law overhauling the court system came into effect.
The Commission’s action is the latest move in a showdown between Brussels and Warsaw over plans by the ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) to exert more control over the judiciary. The EU’s executive body, as well as critics at home and abroad, see the measures as a threat to the rule of law in Poland.
Taking the first step in a so-called infringement procedure, which is triggered when Brussels believes a country has broken EU law, the Commission gave Warsaw one month to respond to a range of concerns about the revamp of the legal system.
“The Commission’s key legal concern identified in the law on the organization of ordinary courts relates to the discrimination on the basis of gender due to the introduction of a different retirement age for female judges (60 years) and male judges (65 years),” the Commission said in a statement.
In its letter to Warsaw, the Commission also expressed concern that the independence of the courts would be undermined by giving the minister of justice “the power to prolong the mandate of judges who have reached retirement age, as well as to dismiss and appoint Court Presidents.”
The new law is part of a package of measures put forward by Poland’s ruling conservative party to take a tighter grip on the judiciary.
Its plans suffered a surprise reversal earlier this week when Polish President Andrzej Duda said he would veto two bills in the package, including one that would have forced the retirement of Supreme Court judges except those designated by the justice minister.
The Commission warned Poland this week that it risked losing its EU voting rights if it forced Supreme Court judges out of office.
But Jarosław Kaczyński, leader of the ruling Law and Justice party, pledged that the overhaul of the judiciary, as well as controversial media reforms, will continue.
The infringement procedure launched on Saturday could lead to the Commission taking Poland to the European Court of Justice if it concludes its concerns have not been addressed.
In Saturday’s statement, European Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans, reiterated an invitation to meet with top Polish officials over the judiciary reforms “in the hope of a constructive dialogue.” So far, the Polish government has snubbed his invitations.
London Mayor Sadiq Khan says Brexit can still be stopped if the Labour party pledges at the next election not to leave the EU or to hold a referendum on the U.K.’s departure deal.
Asked in a Guardian interview published on Saturday if he thought there was any way to avoid Brexit, Khan replied: “Yes.” The Labour mayor went on: “I’m an optimist. For it to have credibility with the British public, there would have to be a Labour manifesto offer, because the public would say, not unreasonably, ‘Hold on a sec, we voted to leave and you’re now sticking two fingers up at us.'”
He said Labour would “have to spell out, in black and white, what we’d do if we won the general election. What could trump the referendum result is us having a manifesto offer saying, we would not leave the EU, or we would have a second referendum.”
Khan, the city’s first Muslim mayor, also said that “after the Brexit vote, words that we thought had been consigned to history were being used again. Somehow, people thought they now had permission to be abusive and racist.”
Khan’s Brexit proposal is likely to feed deep Labour divisions on the issue. Party leader Jeremy Corbyn has said he will respect the result of last year’s referendum decision to leave the EU.
Khan also told a meeting of EU ambassadors that Brexit would be a setback for London as it would be “illogical to assume we can have a better deal or as good a deal with the EU outside the EU. It wouldn’t happen with a tennis club, or any club,” according to the Guardian.
In response to Khan’s proposal, the Guardian reported, a Labour spokesman said that the party “respects the result of the referendum and is making the case for a jobs-first Brexit through securing full tariff-free access to the European single market.”
Bavarian state premier Horst Seehofer wants a cut in car tax for diesel cars that comply with the latest EU regulation on emissions.
“It would be  good if we could give an incentive for the purchase of a new, low-emission Euro 6 diesel by lowering car tax,” Seehofer said in an interview in Der Spiegel published Saturday, referring to the EU rules on car emissions adopted in 2014.
Seehofer is leader of Bavaria’s Christian Social Union, the sister party of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats and a key component of her governing alliance.
His proposal comes days before the German government holds a “diesel summit” on August 2 with carmakers and regional governments to discuss how to cut emissions from diesel cars.
A tax cut would be a boost for the manufacturers of diesel vehicles, whose reputation was badly damaged by the Dieselgate scandal in 2015, in which carmakers including the German giant Volkswagen were revealed to have cheated emissions tests by using software devices.
The European Commission and the German cartel office are also currently looking into allegations on whether several German automakers including Audi, BMW, Daimler, Porsche and Volkswagen held secrets meetings over the past two decades to collude on technical standards and prices.
When President Donald Trump delivered the commencement address at the Coast Guard Academy in May, he was presented with a ceremonial sword — to which Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, standing nearby, quipped, “Use that on the press, sir.”
No one thought the retired Marine general, known for a single-minded focus on getting results, was being serious. But the swipe at the news media on which the president so often trains his ire showed how much Kelly has become a kindred spirit to his boss, who announced Friday he was tapping the DHS secretary for White House chief of staff.
Friday’s news, reshuffling a West Wing consumed in chaos and backbiting, cemented that relationship, which Kelly’s aides say has become exceptionally close during the months he has served as the public face and chief defender of Trump’s immigration policies.
“There’s been little noise and distraction coming from DHS,” said John Torres, chief operating officer of the security firm Guidepost Solutions and a former acting director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the George W. Bush administration. He said Kelly probably impressed the president with his diligent approach to the job. “He’s been staying on message and moving forward.”
That may enable Kelly to bring a firmer sense of order to the White House than his embattled predecessor, Reince Priebus.
Kelly started out showing great eagerness for the DHS job: He turned down the offer of a private plane to drive himself to his first interview with Trump last fall in New Jersey, an aide recounted.
Since then, Trump has met frequently with Kelly, according to the aide, who asked not to be identified. Those included private interactions in which the pair formed the kind of personal rapport that many Trump aides have found elusive.
When Trump signed an executive order during his first week in office that banned travel from several majority-Muslim nations, an action that sparked panic and confusion in airports around the world, Kelly stood by his side. When media outlets reported that Kelly had been blindsided, the general insisted he knew the travel ban was coming.
The president has also praised Kelly for his efforts to reduce illegal immigration.
During Trump’s first month in office, for example, arrests of migrants trying to illegally cross the U.S. southern border dropped by 40 percent, a staggering decrease that Trump could hold up as a victory during an otherwise turbulent opening to his presidency.
“General Kelly is doing a great job at the border,” Trump tweeted in late March. “Numbers are way down. Many are not even trying to come in anymore.”
Trump has also lauded his homeland security chief for making the case to Congress to fund a barrier along the border. That pledge, one of Trump’s signature campaign promises, won a key victory in the House on Thursday — in a dramatic contrast to the Obamacare repeal’s flame-out in the Senate hours later.
While other aides have cycled through Trump’s doghouse, the president has kept expressing confidence in Kelly.
Earlier Friday, Trump traveled to the eastern half of Long Island to deliver a speech about the scourge of the MS-13 gang and its ties to illegal immigration. But first he took a moment to highlight Kelly’s performance.
“I want to congratulate John Kelly, who has done an incredible job of secretary of Homeland Security,” Trump told a crowd at Suffolk County Community College. “Incredible. One of our real stars. Truly, one of our stars. John Kelly is one of our great stars.”
Kelly also quickly established himself as a hard-liner on transportation security in March, when he banned laptops and other large electronic devices from riding in the cabins of U.S.-bound flights from 10 mostly Middle Eastern airports. He later threatened to expand the ban to flights from regions such as Europe — a move that was based on intelligence about terrorists plotting to hide explosives in consumer electronics.
Kelly’s background seemed well-suited to carry out Trump’s pledges to crack down on illegal immigration and take on the domestic threat of Islamic terrorism.
In his last military post, as head of U.S. Southern Command, he tracked smuggling routes in Central and South America and was the chief jailer for some of the world’s most hardened terrorists at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. He supported keeping that prison open indefinitely, unlike his bosses in the Obama administration.
Kelly also lost a son in the war in Afghanistan in 2010, a personal tragedy that some who know him say could have hardened his views on Islamist extremists.
He’s carried out the immigration mission with a rigor that befits his military background, relying on organizational skills developed over four decades in uniform — including as the senior military aide to two secretaries of defense.
That has not always gone over well with some of his longtime admirers or foreign governments.
For example, European officials took offense when Kelly began dangling the possibility of expanding the electronics ban to Europe and elsewhere. They complained that he had failed to give them a heads-up or discuss the potential safety and logistical impacts of the move. Specifically, they warned that stacking laptops with flammable lithium-ion batteries in airplanes’ cargo holds could pose a fire risk — an assertion later confirmed by the Federal Aviation Administration.
Domestic airline and airport groups were similarly displeased when, after weeks of mulling it over, Kelly announced in June that DHS would require a slew of security updates at all 280 of the international airports servicing flights to the United States, with the threat of an even more draconian laptop ban lurking in the wings for those that don’t comply.
“A lot of us who supported him were incredibly disappointed,” said Juliette Kayyem, a former DHS official in the Obama administration who has worked with Kelly. “We thought he’d be a moderating force.”
But Kayyem also believes the non-nonsense and often profanity-laden Kelly may have more luck than Priebus did in controlling the chaos in the White House.
“He actually may be a more effective moderating influence in the White House than in the Cabinet,” she said in an interview. “He is a very, very strong personality. I think people will behave better.”
The Hungarian government repeatedly ignored international legal orders to improve conditions for asylum seekers in a controversial border zone camp, according to a human rights group and an asylum seeker held inside the camp.
Asylum seekers trying to enter Hungary legally are detained in a so-called transit zone — a camp along the southern border with Serbia — and sometimes spend months waiting for a decision on their case. A container camp surrounded by barbed wire and closely guarded by police, the transit zone is off-limits to journalists and most civil society groups.
Since the Hungarian parliament approved the mandatory detention of asylum seekers in March, the transit zone has been criticized by watchdogs and international bodies concerned about the legality of automatically detaining asylum seekers, including children.
In March, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the detention of two Bangladeshi asylum seekers who were confined to the compound for three weeks before being sent back to Serbia amounted to a “de facto deprivation of their liberty.”
But Hungary is now being accused of defying direct orders from the Strasbourg-based court regarding families and minors detained in the transit zone, thereby breaching the European Convention on Human Rights.
“This practice of ignoring the interim measures of the court not only breaches the convention and Hungary’s obligations, but has severe effects on our clients and must end immediately,” said András Léderer, advocacy officer at the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, a human rights group that represents three families and one unaccompanied minor who are in the transit zone and have had international court rulings ignored.
In one case, the court issued an emergency order on May 19 regarding a family of five living in the camp — a 38-year Iranian citizen; his wife, an Afghan citizen who was eight months pregnant; and their three children, aged 7 years, 6 years and 10 months.
In documents seen by POLITICO, the European Court of Human Rights said Budapest must “place the applicants, as soon as possible” in an environment that complies with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which states that “no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.”
The court is allowed to make binding interim decisions such as this if there is “an imminent risk of irreparable harm.”
Nearly two months later, the court issued a second order, reiterating its original decision and adding that the government must “ensure regular meals also for the first applicant [the children’s father] and interpretation for the second applicant [the mother] during her medical check-ups.”
The father, who identified himself only as R, said in an instant messaging conversation that camp authorities had given him just one meal since he arrived there in mid-April and he had been living off his family’s leftovers.
Under new Hungarian rules introduced in the spring, authorities do not have to provide food to asylum seekers whose first application was rejected or canceled. R, who was separated from his family during the journey to the EU and went back to find them, falls into this category.
“Sometimes I was forced to get food from the dustbin near the lunchroom, I was very very hungry,” R wrote.
The second court order was also ignored, according to R and his legal representatives.
R said that two weeks ago the International Red Cross began providing him with occasional ready-meals and soup. International organizations and NGOs have very limited access to the camp, with Hungarian authorities acting as intermediaries between charity groups and asylum seekers.
Hungary’s government denies it has violated any court orders.
“The Hungarian authorities have never ignored any binding ruling coming from any (international) authorities,” a spokesman for the Hungarian government said in a statement. “Conditions in all facilities related to migration and asylum seekers come up to all international standards.”
In the border transit zone, R worries about his family’s wellbeing, in particular his three children.
“They are in a very bad situation,” he said. “They are sick and not given any medicine.”
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made anti-migration policies the centerpiece of his campaign for reelection in spring 2018.
“Europe is currently being prepared to hand its territory over to a new mixed, Islamized Europe,” Orbán said at an annual speech on July 22 in the Romanian town of Băile Tuşnad, known in Hungarian as Tusnádfürdő.
“In order for this to happen, for the territory to be ready to be handed over, it is necessary to continue the de-Christianization of Europe — and we can see these attempts. This is the aim of Brussels’ continuous and stealthy withdrawal of powers from the nation states,” he said. “This is the battlefield on which Central European countries are fighting today.”
President Donald Trump on Friday tweeted that Gen. John Kelly is his new chief of staff, replacing Reince Priebus.
“I am pleased to inform you that I have just named General/Secretary John F Kelly as White House Chief of Staff. He is a Great American and a Great Leader. John has also done a spectacular job at Homeland Security. He has been a true star of my Administration,” Trump wrote.
He added, “I would like to thank Reince Priebus for his service and dedication to his country. We accomplished a lot together and I am proud of him!”
Priebus’ exit marks the most dramatic shakeup yet in Trump’s West Wing, which has been plagued by infighting and anonymous leaks, as aides also struggled to rein in Trump and his Twitter habit. Priebus especially failed to form a strong bond with the president, and found it difficult to keep the White House focused as it became consumed by the intensifying Russia probes and inability to push through Trump’s legislative agenda.
Priebus’ exit follows a sustained attack campaign from new White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci, who went on an expletive laden rant against Priebus to the New Yorker earlier this week, calling the chief of staff a “f—— paranoid schizophrenic” and accusing him of trying to “c— block” him and keep him out of the West Wing.
The former Republican National Committee chairman had endured months of reports that the president was weighing replacing him, but he had hung on, hoping to make it until the one-year mark.
Kelly is a retired Marine Corps general and the former commander of the U.S. Southern Command. Trump has long talked up his love of generals, stocking his administration with military leaders.
Two senior White House officials said Priebus had resigned on Thursday, but another senior West Wing aide said he was ousted from the position.
A Priebus ally said Scaramucci’s comments to the New Yorker made it clear the writing was on the wall for him, particularly when Trump didn’t appear to be aggrieved by the profane attacks.
His exit also follows the latest collapse of the congressional effort to repeal and replace Obamacare, one of Trump’s top legislative priorities. Priebus had played a large role shepherding the repeal effort, and had shouldered blame for previous major setbacks.
Even though his departure had already been decided, Priebus still accompanied the president on his trip to Long Island on Friday for an afternoon speech. Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) was also on the flight and said there was no indication of the impending news.
“We didn’t even know it. We were sitting right across from him and he kept a poker face,” King told reporters, referring to Priebus. When asked what Priebus said during the flight, King said, “Good poker face, showed nothing.”
The former Republican National Committee chairman had endured months of reports that the president was weighing replacing him, but he had hung on, hoping to make it until the one-year mark.
One White House official said Priebus had become so marginalized in the West Wing that people had started questioning his ability “to even perform basic tasks.”
The official said Priebus’ departure wasn’t about any one issue, but a pile-up of sorts. “It was only a matter of time but Trump just wouldn’t pull the trigger,” the official said.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said Friday he will launch an appeal at Spain’s highest court against the Catalan government’s plan to hold an independence referendum in October.
“There will be no referendum on October 1 because that is what the Constitutional Court has determined,” Rajoy said at a press conference, adding: “The government of Spain is going to defend the law.”
Rajoy maintains that an independence referendum would be illegal according to the Spanish constitution, and promised that the government will take all legal measures at its disposal to prevent it.
On Thursday, the Council of State, a legal advisory body, encouraged Rajoy to file an appeal after concluding that the proposed Catalan referendum bill would be illegal on the grounds that it would not allow opposition parties in the regional parliament to propose amendments, and therefore violate “the right to political participation under equal conditions.”
“The government is protecting the law and defending Catalan institutions and their officials, who cannot be used for an act contrary to the law,” Rajoy said at the press conference.
The central government will challenge the Catalan government’s decision to change the regional parliament’s procedural rules, allowing the referendum bill to be voted on without amendments from opposition lawmakers.
Catalonia’s ruling coalition promised to hold a binding referendum on independence and then lead the Catalan people to secession if a majority of voters back that option.
“On October 1 there will be ballot boxes, there will be ballot papers, there will be a census, and I’m almost certain that there will be no one in Catalonia who ignores that a referendum is taking place and what is being decided in that referendum,” Carles Puigdemont, Catalonia’s president, told POLITICO.
Bertie Ahern, former prime minister of Ireland, said Friday there was “no prospect” of Ireland following the U.K. out of the EU.
“We’re mad, but we’re not that mad,” Ahern told Sky News, local media reported. “Thankfully there is no support for that act of insanity. There is no prospect of Ireland leaving the EU either now or in the future.”
“We all want the border to remain as it is, no one wants to see a border or checkpoints,” Ahern, Irish PM from 1997 to 2008, said. “It is a worry and everyone is good intentioned. But the difficultly is the experts say it is impossible.”
The issue of the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is one of the biggest hurdles to be overcome in the Brexit talks.
Last month, Ian Paisley Jr. of the Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party said the Republic of Ireland “can do far better by leaving the EU along with the U.K.”
Paul Ryan couldn’t persuade him. Neither could Mike Pence. And in the end, President Donald Trump couldn’t reel in John McCain either.
The president made a last-ditch effort, calling the Arizona senator and key holdout on the Republicans’ Obamacare repeal measure, as the bill’s fate hung in the balance, according to two sources familiar with the conversation. After Pence had spent about 20 minutes working McCain, the senator went off the floor to speak with Trump by phone, those sources said.
Whatever the men said, it didn’t work. Shortly before 1:30 a.m. Friday, McCain strode to the well of the Senate, and gestured his hand downward to vote “no.” Stunned gasps echoed throughout the chamber.
“I thought it was the right vote,” McCain told reporters as he left the Capitol. “I do my job as a senator.”
It was a shocking — yet fitting — coda for the Senate’s health care battle, starring the veteran senator with a well-polished maverick streak. Within days he went from Obamacare repeal’s savior to its executioner.
Days after being diagnosed with brain cancer, McCain on Monday announced he would travel the more than 2,000 miles to Washington, ultimately providing a much-needed Republican vote to open debate on repealing the health care law. He was then denounced by liberals for endorsing the very partisan process he excoriated on his return to Washington.
He signaled earlier in the week that he was no fan of repeal. He joined with moderates to oppose a bill to repeal large pieces of Obamacare without a replacement, even though he supported a very similar bill in 2015. McCain did cast a vote in support of the Senate’s repeal-and-replace plan.
But in the early hours of Friday morning, the Arizona Republican, as well as Senators Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine, dealt the fatal punch to the Republicans’ seven-year campaign promise to shred Obamacare apart. He’s now become a hero for Democrats, effectively voting to protect the chief legislative achievement of President Barack Obama, his opponent in the 2008 presidential campaign.
Getting there, however, included stunning twists and turns for the 80-year-old senator. Senators had no idea where McCain would land throughout much of Thursday, saying he vacillated in his position as the chaotic day unfolded. They had heard rumblings of three “Nos” as early as Thursday afternoon, and one Republican insisted that the Republicans could have secured McCain’s support had the vote been held earlier in the day.
Many entered the chamber for a vote, unprepared for what would happen.
“I thought he was a ‘Yes’ and had been told he was a ‘Yes’ when I came to the floor,” Senator Bill Cassidy (R-La.) recalled in an interview early Friday morning. “So when I came down and there were issues, I still — for whatever reason — thought they might be resolved. And then they were not.”
As the first vote of the early morning hours began on Friday — a procedural vote orchestrated by Democrats — Republicans slowly began to realize things weren’t going their way. Republican leaders ultimately held the vote open for an hour as all attention turned to flipping McCain to a Yes.
It was a stark turnaround from just several hours prior. Concerned about the chance that their pared-down repeal bill would actually become law, around 10 Senate Republicans — as the group noshed on cheeseburgers, fries and fry sauce from a Utah restaurant chain — spoke up during a private party lunch to stress the need for a conference committee with the House, according to multiple senators.
McCain himself hammered at that point in a hastily-organized news conference late Thursday afternoon.
“I am convinced that we can move forward but we have to have assurances that we will go through a normal process,” McCain said then. “Right now that is not the case. And we do not have the assurances.”
Yet he then diverged from what everyone other than Collins and Murkowski were saying by preaching bipartisanship. It was a major signal he was uncomfortable with the looming vote he was about to take.
“We can’t make the same mistake we made in 2009,” McCain said “We’ve got to have Republicans and Democrats together.”
Ryan also waded into the Senate fight. The speaker spoke privately with numerous Senate Republicans, including a phone conversation with Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) in Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn’s ornate office just off the Senate floor. McCain had a separate call with Ryan.
Ryan’s personal assurances that he would steer the House toward a conference committee with the Senate was enough for the likes of Graham. It wasn’t enough for his best friend in the Senate: McCain.
“Watch the show,” McCain tantalizingly hinted as he headed into the chamber for the consequential vote.
Inside, McCain was surrounded by a rotating cast of senators, including Graham, Murkowski, Collins and Senator Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska). As he spoke to Murkowski, McCain flashed a thumbs down. Graham, Pence and others — including Trump, on the phone — tried to prevail on him.
But his mind wouldn’t change. McCain walked over to a gaggle of Senate Democrats and told them that he would be voting No on the Obamacare repeal measure. His mind had already sped ahead to what was next: the National Defense Authorization Act, a top priority for the Armed Services Committee chairman.
“Let’s get this over with,” McCain told the cluster of Democrats, according to senators. “I really want to do NDAA.”
McCain embraced Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.). Democrats pressed him about Collins and Murkowski: Where would they land? McCain said he couldn’t speak for them.
Nonetheless, Democrats were elated.
“I was trying not to jump up and down and smile,” said Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.).
After the Obamacare repeal was dealt with on Friday morning, senators expected to turn their attention to the sweeping annual defense policy bill. But after the health care bill failed, the libertarian-leaning Kentucky Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.) would not allow McConnell to move forward on the defense bill.
McCain is expected to travel back to Arizona over the weekend, and the defense bill may have to wait until September.
Meanwhile, McCain’s vote left his fellow Republicans in shock. They thought the skinny bill was what one person called a “shirts and skins exercise,” designed to put Republicans and Democrats and prevail on party lines. Several senators could barely speak after the party’s seven-year quest to gut Obamacare had seemingly ended in the middle of the night, with their war hero colleague traveling thousands of miles to kill their best shot at rolling back the law.
“Disappointed,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.). “I never comment on the way people vote. But I’m disappointed that we don’t have an opportunity.”
“Well, we had 49 people and had three that didn’t come through,” Senator Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) remarked. “Tough night.”
Brent Griffiths contributed to this report.
The Kremlin swiftly retaliated Friday against new sanctions approved by the U.S. Congress, ordering a cut in the number of American diplomats in Russia and suspending use by U.S. diplomats of a beach house and storage facilities in Moscow, according to a statement by the foreign ministry.
In hitting back so quickly, Russia did not even wait to see if U.S. President Donald Trump might veto the legislation by Congress, apparently calculating that, even if he disagreed with the bill, the political climate in Washington would make a veto virtually impossible.
A special prosecutor is investigating allegations of collusion between Russia and Trump’s election campaign and also potential obstruction of justice by Trump himself in the firing of FBI Director James Comey.
In its statement, the Russian foreign ministry said the new sanctions approved Thursday by the U.S. Senate in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote “once again confirms the extreme aggressiveness of the United States in international affairs.”
The EU and individual European countries have expressed alarm at the prospect of new, unilateral sanctions by Washington, and over the potential impact of the new measures on European companies, particularly in the energy sector. Until now, the U.S. and European allies had coordinated their efforts to punish Russia for its invasion and annexation of Crimea and military intervention in eastern Ukraine.
In its statement, the Russian foreign ministry seemed to make efforts to highlight the division among Western powers, saying: “The U.S. arrogantly ignores the positions and interests of other states.”
In the statement, Russia insisted that it has done “its utmost to normalize bilateral relations” and called the allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election “a far-fetched pretext.”
The foreign ministry also accused the U.S. of violating diplomatic protocol, particularly in its seizure of two Russian diplomatic compounds in New York and Maryland that the U.S. said were being used by Russian intelligence.
As part of its retaliation, the foreign ministry said the U.S. would have to reduce its diplomatic personnel in Moscow and at consulates across Russia to a total of 455 — the same number of Russian personnel in the U.S. — by September 1. It was not immediately clear how many U.S. officials were currently in the country.
The dacha that Russia is blocking is a house located in Serebryany Bor, a popular recreation and swimming area along the Moscow River in the Russian capital.
Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger released two new songs late Thursday in which he critiques Brexit and the “changing political situation” that propelled the U.K.’s vote to leave the European Union.
Jagger, who supported Remain in the referendum, paints a bleak picture of the U.K. in the songs titled “England Lost” and “Gotta Get A Grip.”

In “England Lost” he sings: “I went to see England but England lost / I went round the back but they said piss off,” in a line perhaps referring to the U.K.’s “back door” attempts to keep the benefits of EU membership despite having left.
Jagger also sings the lines: “I think I’m losing my imagination/ I’m tired of talking about immigration / You can’t get in and you can’t get out / I guess that’s what it’s really all about.”
The unsettling video that accompanies the song shows a sharp-suited man who grows increasingly agitated as he runs from an unknown terror towards the coast. He is eventually forcibly dragged back onto the beach as he attempts to flee into the waves. A girl asks him, “Where did you think you could go … pull yourself together.”
The songs contain “a sense of vulnerability of where we are as a country,” he said in a statement, according to Rolling Stone. He wrote the songs as a response to the “anxiety [and] unknowability of the changing political situation,” an apparent nervous breakdown.
In “Gotta Get a Grip,” Jagger is cutting about the U.K.’s political leadership and media establishment: “The world is upside down / Run by lunatics and clowns / No one speaks the truth and mad-house runs the town … Everybody’s stuffin’ their pockets / Everybody’s on the take / The news is all fake.”

And in an apparent reference to Environment Secretary Michael Gove’s comment during the 2016 referendum campaign that “people have had enough of experts” Jagger sings: “Refugees under your skin / Keep ’em under, keep ’em out / Intellectuals shut your mouth.”
The leader of Poland’s ruling party criticized President Andrzej Duda Thursday for committing to veto controversial judicial reforms, but said “radical” court reform would still happen, local media reported.
Jarosław Kaczyński, leader of the ruling Law and Justice party and Poland’s de facto leader, slammed Duda for pledging to axe two laws intended to increase government control over the judiciary, saying in an interview with Catholic TV channel Trwam that the president had made a “very serious mistake.”
“This means there will be a reform, a radical reform,” said Kaczyński. “Partial reform won’t change anything.”
He did not elaborate on what measures he is considering.
Kaczyński’s comments come amid a growing rift between Warsaw and Brussels over attempts by the Law and Justice party to boost its control over the judiciary. The EU has condemned measures intended to increase political influence over the country’s courts as anti-democratic, with critics warning that the government’s latest steps have put Poland on the road to autocracy.
Poland’s parliament backed the measures, but Duda said he would veto two of three bills on the judiciary after thousands protested the proposed legal changes.
The European Commission is preparing to empower President Jean-Claude Juncker and First Vice President Frans Timmermans to issue infringement proceedings against Poland if Warsaw finds another way to replace Supreme Court judges over the summer.
Speaking for the first time since Duda vetoed the controversial judicial reforms, Kaczyński also addressed civic life. “We want to restore a moral order,” said the Law and Justice party founder.
Law and Order, known by the acronym PiS in Polish, is a far-right, nationalist party with ties to the country’s conservative clergy. In the interview aired Thursday, Kaczyński was interviewed by a priest. Nevertheless, Archbishop Stanisław Gądecki, the president of the Polish bishops’ conference, praised Duda’s pledge to veto the bill.
Kaczyński added that the government would “decentralize” the country’s media after it enacts controversial judicial reforms, even though he anticipates “strong resistance” to the move.
He did not offer specific details of his plan, but members of the Law and Justice party have previously suggested restricting foreign ownership of private media.
 
Le Monde led its front page with a feature on nuclear power titled “a French obsession.” It also reported on President Emmanuel Macron’s decision to nationalize the Saint-Nazaire shipyard after a clash with Rome over an Italian company’s offer to buy it. Le Figaro reported on Macron’s plans to open asylum processing centers, also known as hotspots, on Libyan soil to prevent migrants from making the “crazy” journey across the Mediterranean to reach Europe. The right-leaning paper was in favor of the policy. In its front page editorial titled “At the root,” the paper argued the move would help quell concerns about immigration and allow the government to reject economic migrants without allowing them into France.


The main newspapers outlined what freedom of movement for EU citizens in the U.K. would look like post Brexit. The Times reported Ireland wants a “sea border” with the U.K., while pushing for no controls on land. The Telegraph reported “freedom of movement to continue after Brexit,” while the Financial Times wrote Chancellor Philip Hammond wants a “two-phase Brexit deal with ‘off-the-shelf’ transition.” Home Secretary Amber Rudd “vows ‘no cliff edge’ on EU migration,” according to the Guardian.


The automotive industry continued to dominate headlines, as Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt accused Porsche, a subsidiary of Volkswagen, of cheating on its emissions and ordered the carmaker to recall 22,000 Cayenne SUVs. The Frankfurter Allgemeine called for the “maximum penalty” for Porsche in its editorial. The Süddeutsche Zeitung led with a story on Audi, another Volkswagen subsidiary, and how it was warned about the “serious consequences” of cheating on its emissions back in 2013, before the Dieselgate scandal emerged. The paper also reported on Macron’s migration plan.


Two cabinet ministers resigned and a third minister’s position hangs in the balance as a data breach continues to ravage Sweden’s center-left government. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven announced the resignations in a press conference Thursday but rejected the opposition’s demands to hold an election and dismiss Defense Minister Peter Hulqvist. The Dagens Nyheter front page read: “Crisis averted: But Hulqvist still shaky.”


Christian Krug contributed to this report.
The Senate Republicans’ push to dismantle Obamacare collapsed in dramatic fashion early Friday morning, when two centrist GOP women and Sen. John McCain of Arizona teamed up to sink an already scaled-back effort to dismantle the 2010 health care law.
McCain and GOP Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska teamed up with all 48 Democrats reject the Republicans’ so-called skinny repeal plan, tanking the measure by a vote of 49-51. The Senate GOP had already pretty much shunned the proposal, viewing it mostly as a route to go into negotiations with the House.
But in gripping floor drama that began to unfold after midnight Friday, it appeared McCain had his mind made up that he would be the pivotal third vote to sink Obamacare repeal. Vice President Mike Pence talked to him at length, but it didn’t seem to change the Arizonan’s mind.
McCain previewed what was to come shortly before he entered the chamber, telling reporters: “Watch the show.”
“This is clearly a disappointing moment,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said shortly after the vote failed at 1:40 a.m. Friday morning. “We worked really hard to try to develop a consensus for a better way forward.”
He added: “Yes, this is a disappointment. A disappointment indeed.”
The bizarre turn of events — GOP senators were gearing up to vote for a bill few if any of them actually support — came on a frenetic day of the Republican Party’s tortured bid to upend the Democratic health care law.
On Thursday afternoon, McCain, Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) threatened to tank the bare-bones repeal plan, which would scuttle Obamacare’s coverage mandates. Saying the bill would wreak further havoc on the health care system, the trio demanded that the bill, if they voted for it, would be just the starting point for negotiations with the House. They worried that if the Senate approved the bill, the House would quickly follow suit and send it to President Donald Trump for his signature
After Ryan offered a somewhat ambiguous commitment to go to conference committee, several GOP senators said they still weren’t satisfied. The House leader then personally reassured a handful of senators that the House will enter negotiations with the Senate if it passes its bill. That was enough for at least Graham to move forward.
The House “will go to conference, and under no circumstances does he believe the skinny bill is good policy or good politics,” Graham said of the discussion with Ryan. “He doesn’t want us to be the party that repeals part of Obamacare and leaves most of it in place … The bottom line here is I think Paul sees the skinny bill as a vehicle to find a better solution.”
McCain, however, said he still wasn’t convinced.
“I wanted to talk to him some more,” McCain said, referring to Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey. “It’s always important to talk to your governor.”
Asked how he will vote, he said: “I am not discussing that.”
The bill would repeal Obamacare’s individual coverage mandate permanently and its employer mandate for eight years. It would also give states flexibility to opt out of some Obamacare regulations, defund Planned Parenthood for a year, repeal the medical device tax for three years and allow more pre-tax money to pay for health savings accounts. It’s a far less dramatic rollback of the law than most Senate Republicans have previously supported.
The Congressional Budget Office estimated late Thursday that the finalized GOP bill would leave 16 million fewer people uninsured than under the current law by 2026, while reducing the deficit by nearly $179 billion over that same time frame.
Senate GOP leaders view the measure as a bridge to continued negotiations, not a policy solution. They don’t want to be blamed for being the chamber that killed Obamacare repeal, and aim to pass the slimmed down repeal plan in the wee hours of the morning Friday, after an all-night series of amendment votes known as a “vote-a-rama.”
Asked if there is any chance this bill becomes law, Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) replied: “No, I don’t.”
“Everybody wants to be able to vote for something out of the Senate that can move the process forward,” said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), a GOP leader. “I think in the end we’ll have 50” votes.
Still, the outcome remained murky late into the night. Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) said she’d decided how she would vote but would not announce her position until bill comes up. Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) said the same. A spokesman for Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) said he was still undecided after the text was unveiled. But most other Republicans had signed on by Thursday evening, boosting confidence after doubts crept in hours earlier.
Graham, Johnson and McCain had demanded an ironclad commitment from Ryan that the House would not take up and pass the Senate’s bill. In a statement a few hours later, Ryan sought to reassure the Senate while declining to guarantee that the Senate’s bill, which would cause a spike in premiums and millions more to be uninsured, would not become law.
It was a tepid endorsement of the Senate leadership’s drive to pass something — anything — in order to keep moving forward, but hardly more than that.
“It is now obvious that the only path ahead is for the Senate to pass the narrow legislation that it is currently considering. This package includes important reforms like eliminating the job-killing employer mandate and the requirement that forces people to purchase coverage they don’t want,” Ryan said. “Still it is not enough to solve the many failures of Obamacare. Senators have made clear that this is an effort to keep the process alive, not to make law. If moving forward requires a conference committee, that is something the House is willing to do.”
The House could take up what the Senate passes by week’s end, or agree to go to a conference committee. The outcome of the vote on the repeal plan remained in doubt late into the evening, as did the exact contents of the bill until it was released after 10 p.m. Most senators agreed it was not good health care policy.
“The skinny bill as policy is a disaster,” Graham said, explaining it would cause a crisis in the insurance markets. “I need assurances from the House speaker … if I don’t [get them], I’m a no.”
On Thursday evening, before the “vote-a-rama” kicked off, GOP leaders were cautiously optimistic they would succeed despite the differing views on Ryan’s commitment.
At a party lunch Thursday, McConnell made one last frantic plea to his Senate Republican members to keep the party’s Obamacare repeal bid alive. Republicans must get 50 of their 52 members on board; Vice President Mike Pence would break a 50-50 tie to pass the bill.
The Senate majority leader picked up some key votes, including Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio. Not everyone was sold, but GOP leaders were emphasizing that the bill, which would slash Obamacare’s coverage mandates and result in millions more uninsured, is not the ultimate goal. The bill also does not cut Medicaid.
The bill’s cornerstone is a repeal of the individual and employer mandates. It would not touch Medicaid. It also would defund Planned Parenthood and give states more flexibility to opt out of Obamacare regulations; the law’s Prevention and Public Fund is also expected to be sharply cut. But there are growing concerns among Republicans that budget requirements will prevent the Senate from repealing any of Obamacare’s taxes.
“I don’t know whether at the end of this process it’s going to be fat, skinny, bulimic, anorexic, I don’t know. This is not being orchestrated, I can assure you,” said Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.).
And it’s unclear whether there will be a complete Congressional Budget Office score of the Republican plan in time for the vote. Republicans say if there isn’t, they would rely on prior CBO scores of provisions of the bill and Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi would make a ruling.
Even as the chamber careens toward a final decision on whether to repeal, replace or revise Obamacare, with no certain outcome, Republican leaders are desperate to get rid of their political headache after several failed votes earlier this week.
“We have to pass something,” said Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the most senior GOP senator and chairman of the Finance Committee.
Anthony Scaramucci, the flashy and sometimes profane Wall Street financier, was brought on as White House communications director last Friday. It’s already clear he’s a lot more than that.
In six days, he has launched a brutally edged campaign to identify White House leakers, threatened to “fire everybody” in the communications shop, and has declared war on chief of staff Reince Priebus and chief strategist Steve Bannon.
Scaramucci, who boasted that he reports directly to President Donald Trump, has described his role as “fixing the place,” said one person who spoke with him this week.
And he’s wasting no time.
In a vulgar interview with The New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza on Wednesday night, Scaramucci laced into Priebus for trying to “c— block” him from a job in the White House, called him a “f—— paranoid schizophrenic,” and questioned Bannon’s loyalty.
“I’m not Steve Bannon, I’m not trying to suck my own c—,” he said.
One person who talked with Scaramucci said he talks openly about getting rid of Priebus, the former Republican National Committee chairman whose job has appeared to be in jeopardy for months.
“He’s got to go,” this person said, summarizing Scaramucci’s comments about Priebus.
It’s unclear how the New Yorker interview will impact Scaramucci’s standing with Trump, but the president has already praised Scaramucci’s brawler instincts, including his ability to get a retraction from CNN on an article that linked Scaramucci to the Russia investigations. But his attacks on fellow aides are sure to draw some condemnations and questions about his own future in the West Wing.
Scaramucci suggested in a tweet on Thursday evening that he would pull back on the profanities, but he did not apologize. “I sometimes use colorful language. I will refrain in this arena but not give up the passionate fight for @realDonaldTrump‘s agenda. #MAGA,” he wrote.
Later in the evening, he appeared to push some of the blame on Lizza. “I made a mistake in trusting in a reporter. It won’t happen again,” he tweeted.
Lizza, however, wrote in his piece that Scaramucci did not ask for the conversation to be off the record or on background.
One White House official described the incident as a bump in the road for Scaramucci — and said that there was no expectation that he would be fired or punished for the interview. Nor any expectation that Trump will be inflamed by it.
“He didn’t say anything negative about Trump,” this person said.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders offered a defense of Scaramucci on Fox News on Thursday evening, saying he’s someone who’s “very passionate” about Trump.
“This is a guy who sometimes uses colorful, and in many circles probably not appropriate language,” Sanders said. “He’s very passionate about the president and the president’s agenda, and I think he may have let that get the best of him in that conversation.”
Scaramucci’s arrival was described by one adviser as “a cannonball from a diving board into a pool.” With his brash outer-borough New York ethos and flair for showmanship, Scaramucci is perhaps more like Trump himself than anyone else on the White House staff — and his appointment is a clear signal that the president is walking away from his initial embrace of establishment Republicans familiar with Washington.
Instead, Trump is choosing the gut-driven approach that won him the presidency. And that especially doesn’t bode well for Priebus.
The chief of staff has seen his power base steadily erode, losing first his deputy Katie Walsh, who departed the administration in March and recently returned to the RNC, and then press secretary Sean Spicer, who resigned after it was clear that Scaramucci would be above him in the West Wing.
Some in the West Wing had thought it would be Priebus who would leave once the news of Scaramucci’s hiring broke.
In a potentially ominous sign, Priebus’ usual defenders in the White House seemed subdued on Thursday, a noticeable shift from earlier in the administration, when public criticism of the chief of staff was met with a rapid response. No one seemed empowered to defend Priebus, unlike in the early days, when two paragraphs in a story about him could prompt six or more phone calls.
One person who spoke with Priebus over the weekend said he’d wanted to make it to one year in the White House, but has settled for staying “at least through health care.”
One reason Priebus and his allies opposed Scaramucci coming on board was that they knew “he wouldn’t just be a comms person going on TV,” one West Wing official said.
Priebus has begun calling allies and asking for advice on whether he should stay in the job and how he should handle the situation, according to people familiar with the talks. One such call went to Speaker Paul Ryan earlier this week, who advised Priebus to stay and that the president needed him. “They speak often,” said Doug Andres, a Ryan spokesman, who declined to comment further.
Priebus has continued to hold daily meetings in his office, but people no longer feel like they have to attend, one senior White House official said.
Newly elevated press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to give Priebus a direct vote of confidence at the daily briefing Thursday, saying the president would “let you know” if he wasn’t happy with his staff. “The president enjoys healthy competition,” Sanders said.
Scaramucci got the president’s blessing before going on television and criticizing Priebus on Thursday morning — just before the daily 8 a.m. meeting where Priebus typically tries with little luck to set the agenda for the day.
The communications director, who described Priebus last week as a sibling-style rival, responded to a question about his relationship with the chief of staff by mentioning the biblical brothers Cain and Abel. Cain killed Abel.
Scaramucci taunted Priebus over leaks again, hours after posting and then deleting a tweet that seemed to suggest he believed Priebus had been involved in the release of his financial disclosure, a public document that was released by a federal government agency. “If he wants to prove he’s not a leaker, let him do it,” Scaramucci said on CNN.
He said there are only two people who can be trusted in the White House. “I can tell you two fish that don’t stink,” Scaramucci said to CNN. “That’s me and the president.”
“There are people inside this administration that think it’s their job to save America from this president,” he added.
Priebus told others he did not leak Scaramucci’s financial disclosure form and that he doesn’t understand why Scaramucci would make such an accusation without facts. He has tried to soldier on in the job, showing up early in the West Wing every morning. “Everyone knows he’s not in charge,” said one senior West Wing official.
Whether Scaramucci, who seems to have an innate understanding of Trump, remains his “flavor of the month,” in the words of one adviser, seems unclear. But friends say Trump is already more comfortable with Scaramucci — who is forceful and smooth on TV — and that he respects Scaramucci for his business acumen.
“If this is less of a s—show because Anthony Scaramucci is imposing some discipline and getting things done, that’s good for the country. It’s good for the country to have a functioning government even if you disagree vehemently,” said Stu Loeser, a friend and former press secretary to Michael Bloomberg. “Anthony is helping the president and will continue to help the president.”
Loeser’s comments came before Scaramucci’s New Yorker interview published.
Scaramucci doesn’t have much government experience, and that could create problems, said Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University, even if Trump loves his machismo and public appearances. The administration is far behind on staffing and has struggled to get its legislative agenda through.
“It is totally out of control, chaos,” Zelizer said. “This is unnerving people in Washington and everywhere, where the president’s advisers can’t get him to do anything and are behaving like this.”
Trent Lott, a lobbyist and former Senate Majority Leader, said he didn’t understand the reasoning behind some of the White House’s actions, particularly the president’s tweets.
“They really need to get some positive things to talk about,” Lott said.
And Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker who serves as a surrogate for Trump, offered some advice to Priebus, as he copes with being on the ropes: “Just do your job.”
“Ignore the noise, assume it’s noise,” he said in an interview. “He’s the chief of staff and he’s the chief of staff until he isn’t.”
Annie Karni contributed to this report.
A candidate for a senior position at the Department of Homeland Security withdrew from consideration on Wednesday, citing President Donald Trump’s decision to ban transgender people from serving in the military.
John Fluharty, a former executive director of the Delaware Republican Party, informed a DHS official in an email Wednesday morning that he was pulling out of contention to be the assistant secretary of partnership and engagement at the department.
“As I mentioned in our conversation, I am a strong advocate for diversity, both in the Republican Party and in government,” Fluharty wrote in an email obtained by POLITICO. “The President’s announcement this morning — that he will ban all of those who identify as transgender from military service — runs counter to my deeply held beliefs, and it would be impossible for me to commit to serving the Administration knowing that I would be working against those values.”
Fluharty, who is openly gay, said he interviewed for the job on Tuesday, one day before Trump’s surprise tweet that the government “will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity” in the U.S. military.
The decision blindsided much of the federal government, including many at the Defense Department and in the White House. It has led to widespread confusion about the what will happen to openly transgender members of the military, and the White House has not yet provided clarity on the issue.
Department officials confirmed Fluharty was under consideration, though it’s unclear whether he was in line to get the job at the department.
“He was one of many candidates being considered and he withdrew from consideration,” DHS spokesman David Lapan wrote in an email. “We’re not aware of anyone else who withdrew for that reason.”
DHS has had trouble filling the assistant secretary of partnership and engagement position. David Clarke, the sheriff of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, who had come under criticism for a series of deaths at the jails he oversees, was under consideration for the job. But DHS announced in June that he was no longer in contention.
The assistant secretary, which does not require Senate confirmation, coordinates outreach to state, local and tribal officials and law enforcement.
Fluharty said he was contacted about the prospect of applying for the position last week, and agreed to do the interview on Tuesday. Though he was interested in the post, he opted against it after the president’s announcement.
BERLIN — The European Union should strike deals with West African countries to stem the influx of migrants reaching Italy from Libya, according to an architect of the 2016 migration deal between the EU and Turkey.
Gerald Knaus, director of the European Stability Initiative think tank, said many West African migrants risked the perilous voyage across the Mediterranean because they knew they would not be sent home for years — if at all — due to legal and bureaucratic delays, even if their requests for asylum in Europe were rejected.
“Every migrant from West Africa who survives the dangerous journey from Libya to Italy remains in Europe for years afterwards — regardless of the outcome of his or her asylum application,” Knaus said in an interview.
To accelerate the deportations of rejected asylum seekers to West African countries that are considered safe, the EU needs to forge agreements with their governments, he said.
The Central Mediterranean route between Libya and Italy — dubbed the “deadliest migration route in the world” by Amnesty International — has become the primary means for migrants reaching Europe this year. More than 93,000 have arrived in Italy in 2017 so far — an increase of 17 percent on the same period last year, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
The influx has caused political tension in Italy and beyond, with the government in Rome threatening to not let foreign ships dock at Italian ports and Vienna raising the prospect of sending troops to the Italian border to stop migrants entering Austria.
Unlike the 2015 migration crisis, when most of those arriving in Greece were from Syria and other war-affected countries such as Afghanistan, a majority of those landing on Italian shores are economic migrants with little chance of being granted asylum.
Around 15 percent of those who have arrived in Italy this year are Nigerian, followed by people from Bangladesh, Guinea and Ivory Coast.
“At the moment, Italy might seem like it’s most immediately affected, but Germany is just as affected with most of the [asylum seekers] planning to travel on to Germany,” Knaus said.
His plan, which he has so far pitched to government representatives in Italy, France, Germany, Malta, Sweden and the Netherlands, includes the European Council appointing a special envoy, ideally a former head of government, to negotiate the deals with African countries.
“There needs to be someone similar to [German Chancellor Angela] Merkel in early 2016 — with similar contact and access to governments — who is every day in charge of thinking about how to solve this problem,” he said.
Knaus knows more about that crisis than most. A concept he developed became the basis for the refugee deal signed between the EU and Turkey in March 2016.
The deal stipulated that Ankara would take back every migrant who landed illegally from Turkey on the Greek islands. But for every Syrian brought back, the EU would resettle a Syrian refugee based in Turkey — thereby providing an incentive for refugees to remain in Turkey rather than risk the crossing to Greece. Also as part of the deal, the EU provides Turkey with financial help to cope with the influx of refugees it has faced in recent years.
The deal helped bring down the number of refugees reaching Europe across the Aegean, with a little more than 10,000 refugees arriving in Greece so far this year, compared to almost 160,000 during that period in 2016.
Knaus acknowledged that relations between the EU and Turkey had “deteriorated dramatically” over the last year. But he said the migration deal was holding up because “at the end of the day, it is based on mutual interests” and each side can see whether the other is keeping its end of the bargain.
When it comes to a deal with West African countries, however, Knaus has another blueprint in mind — a 1994 agreement between the United States and Cuba, in which the U.S. agreed to accept 20,000 Cubans per year if the government in Havana clamped down on an exodus of Cuban refugees.
Knaus said the EU should offer countries such as Nigeria financial incentives to take back asylum seekers whose applications are rejected — the vast majority. At the same time, African governments should be offered a quota of visas for workers from their country to come to Europe legally.
Current EU efforts focused on migration routes inside Africa would not be effective, Knaus said.
Late last year, the EU offered more than €610 million to impoverished Niger, a transit country along the main route into Libya, for help in keeping a lid on migration.
“Considering how incredibly complicated it was back in 2015 to stop the flow of migration within the European Union, it’s absurd to believe that we could do something similar with [African] partners, for example in Niger,” Knaus said. “What interest should African countries have — let alone the capacity — to play police for the European Union?”
Instead, countries should be provided with economic incentives to take back their citizens whose asylum applications have been rejected, Knaus said. If more people were sent back, this would also discourage their compatriots from trying to make the journey to Europe illegally.
For a long time, Turkey was not eager to cooperate closely with the European Union on migration, Knaus said — until the EU came up with a deal that offered Ankara something in return.
ROME — It’s official, Silvio Berlusconi is back in the political fray.
The four-time Italian prime minister, who turns 81 in September, may be marred by sex scandals and barred from holding public office after a tax fraud conviction. But that hasn’t stopped him from emerging as a potent political force ahead of a parliamentary election early next year.
His first task: to seize the leadership of the right.
“Berlusconi is in the race, and he’s always been,” said Renato Brunetta, whip in the lower house of parliament for the media mogul’s Forza Italia party. “And with him, we’re able to win.”
Rejuvenated by a surprise success in June’s local elections, Forza Italia is neck-and-neck with the far-right Northern League led by Matteo Salvini. According to a recent survey by the Italian polling firm IPSOS, both parties are polling at just over 15 percent.
Italy’s current electoral law — under which a party or coalition needs 40 percent of the vote to secure a majority in the lower house and 50 percent to do so in the Senate — is almost certain to produce a hung parliament. An effort to reform it in the fall, to ensure the country remains governable, is expected to generate heated debate, as political players jockey for advantage.
Forza Italia and the Northern League are, individually, both far behind former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s Democratic Party, which is polling at 26.9 percent, and the Euroskeptic 5Star Movement, which stands at 27.6 percent.
Given that both of the right’s larger rivals are losing ground, a coalition of Forza Italia, the Northern League and the smaller far-right Brothers of Italy have as decent a chance as any of being able to form a government.
If that happens, the question would be: Who would become prime minister?
The contest pits Berlusconi against Salvini, 44, an ambitious right-wing leader who has transformed the Northern League from a largely regional political force into a national populist party.
For the moment, Salvini is winning. According to a recent Ixe poll of right-wing voters, 48 percent said they considered Salvini as the leader of the right. Berlusconi lagged behind with 31 percent, but is rapidly surging – and ultimately, says Brunetta, it will be the voters who decide.
While Berlusconi is currently barred from public office until 2019 due to a tax fraud conviction, he has appealed the ruling to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and a decision is expected in November.
“We have set clear rules for the leadership of the center right,” Brunetta said. “The party that will win more votes at the next elections will be the one that indicates the candidate for the premiership.”
After recovering from an open-heart surgery last year, Berlusconi has positioned himself as a reborn “father of the nation,” in stark contrast to his flamboyant past. His centrist messaging has helped him attract the support of moderate voters, put off by Salvini’s often belligerent tone.
“Italian voters have forgotten why they were tired of him and now he appears much more reliable and reassuring than other younger leaders,” said Giovanni Orsina, professor of political history and author of the book “The Republic after Berlusconi.”
“Berlusconi is playing his new game smartly, in a subtle way,” he added. “He knows he’s not the center of Italian politics anymore, but he still can be one of the few kingmakers.”
In case he is not able to become prime minister, he could nominate one of his close allies, possibly his long-time lieutenant, European Parliament President Antonio Tajani. “Tajani would be a solid choice and he would help in the relationship with Europe,” said Roberto D’Alimonte, political science professor at Rome’s LUISS University.
For now, Berlusconi has made it clear he will lead Forza Italia’s electoral campaign. He is currently drafting a program based on a flat tax, basic income payments for the very poor and a hard-line approach to illegal immigration.
“Berlusconi has always been crucial,” said Forza Italia MEP Deborah Bergamini, adding that he had the ability to unite political forces around his vision. “It’s clear that he is the pivot of this coalition.”
She stressed that Forza Italia is not worried about the rivalry with the League. “Competition is healthy, it will help us to win more votes,” she said.
The Northern League, however, is unlikely to bend the knee without a fight.
“Berlusconi’s model of center-right has worked for the past 20 years, but it doesn’t reflect a changing global environment anymore,” said Giancarlo Giorgetti, Northern League MEP and one of Salvini’s closest advisers. “The League cannot accept to be a vassal of Forza Italia.”
Salvini has struggled to sell his political message in the south of the country, a region his party once nicknamed “the ruin of Italy.”
But he has recently softened his once strident Europhobia in public appearances, focusing instead on an electoral program that includes a flat tax at 15 percent and a pledge to reform the European Union by rewriting all its main treaties, including the Maastricht Treaty that created the euro and introduced fiscal limitations on national governments.
He is also working on a new electoral symbol, with which the League will run at a national level, from north to south, at the next elections. He argues that the party has demonstrated its ability to govern by running two of “the most European and richest among Italian regions,” Lombardy and Veneto.
“It’s clear that the League’s proposals, including a radical reform of the European treaties, are now dominating the political landscape,” Giorgetti said, pointing out that his party was the first to propose the flat tax on which Berlusconi proposes to campaign.
Salvini’s popularity among the right wing make him its natural leader, he added: “We have always been clear with Italian voters about what we want to do. The leadership will follow.”
The organization that managed Grenfell Tower in London and the local council could be charged with corporate manslaughter, police said Thursday.
According to a letter sent to residents of the tower, police said they have “reasonable grounds” to suspect that corporate manslaughter had been committed. At least 80 people died when fire broke out at the building last month.
The letter from the police states that “after an initial assessment” of materials taken away from the site and after hearing from witnesses “there are reasonable grounds to suspect that each organization may have committed the offense of corporate manslaughter under the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007.” It mentioned the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and the Kensington and Chelsea Tenant Management Organisation.
According to a statement by the Metropolitan Police on Thursday, the investigation into the fire was complex and “will take a considerable time to complete.”
To listen to the podcast now, click on the player below or click here to get it on iTunes.

This week Violeta Bulc, the European transport commissioner and a taekwondo black belt, explains why she’d have Ryanair CEO Michael O’Leary as a Brexit negotiator to make sure planes can still fly from the U.K. to the EU and vice versa the day after Brexit. Bulc is also passionate about drones and tells us why there should be millions of them, why they need to be regulated and how she plans to do it. You’ll also hear what it takes to establish a cross-border fast train link, and so why many obvious connections — like one between Vienna, Bratislava and Budapest — are still missing from Europe’s map.
Bulc even entertains the idea of giving farmers EU Common Agricultural Policy money to buy drones to help with their work.
Joshua Posaner, a POLITICO transport reporter, talks us through a big week for the automotive sector. Allegations of a massive cartel in the German auto sector prompted soul-searching at the European Commission. Their response was to create a new role, which may as well be called Vice President for Sorting Out The Car Sector, given to Vice President  Jyrki Katainen. The U.K. also became the latest country after France and Norway to announce it will ban petrol and diesel cars. The catch: the ban will only kick in 23 years from now.
In “EU WTF,” our Brussels brains trust, Lina Aburous and Ailbhe Finn, discuss the European Commission’s decision promote six men and no women to the top civil service rank, on the same day the institution released its new staff diversity policy.
And in our Dear Politico section, we hear from yet another Parliament assistant: this one is worried about whether they will be linked for ever in search engines to their MEP’s legally dubious behavior.
Martin Schulz, head of Germany’s Social Democrats, on Thursday criticized EU countries for “cherry picking” the bloc’s policies, especially when it comes to migration.
Speaking after a meeting with Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni in Rome, Schulz said, “We agreed that the coming multi-year budget of the European Union has to be a solidarity pact, in which solidarity is not a process of cherry picking,” according to the Frankfurter Allgemeine.
The former European Parliament president said many EU states would say “yes, please” when it comes to regional financing and agriculture funding, “but when it comes to the distribution of refugees, you will hear ‘no thanks.'”
The Social Democrat challenger for Angela Merkel’s chancellorship has of late altered his campaign to focus on refugees.
In several recent interviews Schulz sounded the alarm over the issue. “In 2015, more than 1 million refugees arrived in Germany — mostly uncontrolled,” Schulz told Bild am Sonntag newspaper, using a higher number than the roughly 890,000 asylum seekers who registered in Germany that year.
France will set up processing centers in Libya to prevent migrants from making the perilous trip across the Mediterranean to get to European shores, President Emmanuel Macron announced Thursday, according to Le Figaro.
“The idea is to create hotspots to avoid people taking crazy risks when they are not all eligible for asylum. We’ll go to them,” Macron said at a refugee center in Orléans, in central France. He added that his government will begin implementation this summer “with or without Europe.”
The idea of setting up external processing centers, also known as hotspots, has been mooted in Brussels as a way to deal with the large flow of migrants, mostly from the Middle East and Africa, but is not popular with many officials who believe the hotspots would make it easier for migrants to enter Europe.
Some hotspots have been set up in Greece and Italy to deal with the thousands of migrants who have already arrived in Europe, but there are none in Libya, from where more than 100,000 migrants have headed to Europe this year, according to the International Organization for Migration. In the same period, 2,300 migrants have died trying to cross into Europe.
Macron said he was willing to send French officials to Libya to help. “I am also ready to send some [officials] to Libya,” he said.
Earlier this month, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe unveiled the government’s migration plan, which included stricter law enforcement and increased returns of failed asylum seekers, as well as better accommodation and services such as French lessons for accepted refugees.
Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat thinks Brexit might not happen after all, and suggested that the mood in Britain has changed since the vote on EU membership.
“For the first time, I’m starting to believe that Brexit will not happen. I am seeing hopeful signs that indicate things will change,” Muscat told Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant in an interview published Thursday.
Muscat, who once called the Brexit vote “a disaster,” said the referendum resulted in a situation with “only losers.”
“It would be good if a political leader in the U.K. stands up and is courageous enough to address this new situation. Someone who says: let’s put the Brexit end-deal to a popular vote,” Muscat said.
Muscat said British Prime Minister Theresa May is well prepared for negotiations with the European Union, despite reports about EU frustration over the U.K.’s apparent lack of readiness for serious discussions.
“People who say the Brits don’t know what they are doing are wrong. I have lived in Britain, I know the British mentality. A non-prepared British government official simply doesn’t exist. The problem isn’t that London is prepared badly, but that the EU is prepared extremely well.”
Muscat, who won re-election in June, campaigned against his country joining the EU in 2003. He said he was afraid Malta would lose jobs and its independence, but said his time as an MEP changed his mind and made him “critical but not anti-European.”
He now backs a two-speed Europe and says the way Europe currently works — with a one-size-fits-all approach — only worked when there was a much smaller EU.
France on Thursday banned politicians from hiring family members, one of the first major pieces of legislation to be passed since Emmanuel Macron became president, local media reported.
The measure was approved by parliament after a series of votes on Wednesday night and Thursday.
Last month, then Justice Minister François Bayrou proposed the rule change as part of Macron’s effort to reform French politics. Bayrou said at the time that the measure would restore the public’s confidence in politicians.
The legislation comes on the heels of a major graft scandal involving former prime minister François Fillon and his British wife, Penelope. The one-time conservative presidential candidate allegedly paid his wife and children hundreds of thousands of euros for work they may have not done.
Fillon and his wife were interrogated by police during the campaign and he was later placed under judicial investigation, leading to calls for him to drop out of the presidential race. Fillon, of the conservative Républicains party, did not make it through to the presidential run-off, winning 20 percent of the vote in a first round of voting in April.
In March, Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux quit after prosecutors opened a preliminary investigation into his employment of his two daughters as parliamentary aides.
Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven announced changes to his cabinet Thursday as a result of an IT scandal but said he decided not to call an early election.
At a press conference, Löfven said two ministers tied to the scandal have resigned.
“I have to take responsibility for the country. It wouldn’t serve Sweden to throw the country into a political crisis,” he said.
The center-left government has been embroiled in crisis in recent days over a data security breach at the Swedish Transport Agency. Sensitive data was potentially leaked abroad as part of an outsourcing deal with IBM Sweden.
Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist, Interior Minister Anders Ygeman and Infrastructure Minister Anna Johansson have all been under fire from opposition politicians over the breach. Löfven said Ygeman and Johansson had resigned, but Hultqvist would remain in his post as he believed the minister was not responsible for what happened at the transport agency.
On Monday, Löfven, who is the leader of the Social Democratic Party, said the breach was “a mess” and “exposed both Sweden and the Swedes to risks.”
Tineke Mertens, communications officer for IBM in Europe, said: “We take data privacy very seriously.” But she added the company wouldn’t comment on the specific case.
Swedish authorities say that damage from the leak is limited.
There are “no indications that data was disseminated improperly,” said Jonas Bjelfvenstam, the current director-general of the Swedish Transport Agency.
Opposition parties had called Wednesday for a vote of no-confidence in all three ministers caught up in the scandal. The Christian Democrats and far-right Swedish Democrats, two opposition parties, also called for a no-confidence vote in Hultqvist after he retained his position on Thursday.
All new ministers appointed in the reshuffle are members of Löfven’s Social Democratic Party.
Laurens Cerulus contributed to this report.
Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern said that the European Union could “never in a lifetime” digest the economic impact of Turkey joining the bloc, ruling out any future prospects for membership.
Speaking to the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an interview published Thursday, Kern said that due to economic considerations, along with “democratic reasons, it is legitimate to tell the Ankara regime clearly: you simply are not a candidate for membership.”
Kern also accused Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of “dictatorial violence,” adding that in Turkey “almost all red lines have been crossed.”
On Tuesday, EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini announced that Turkey “clearly is and stays a candidate country,” but a recent setback in relations “makes it difficult in this moment to imagine the opening of further chapters.”
The Austrian leader, a member of the Social Democratic Party, faces a strong challenge from Sebastian Kurz, the 30-year old leader of the conservative Austrian People’s Party, as well as the far-right Freedom Party, in an upcoming election in October.
Warning against further EU funds going to Turkey, Kern said: “We pay more than €3 billion euros to Turkey for accession. We cannot pay for the implementation of legal structures and experience the opposite. We cannot explain this to German and Austrian taxpayers.”
European Council President Donald Tusk was summoned by the Polish national prosecutor’s office for a hearing, Polish broadcaster TVN 24 reported Thursday.
The summons was confirmed by Roman Giertych, Tusk’s lawyer, who said, “We do not know what the prosecutor will ask, but we know from other information that the case concerns Smolensk,” referring to the plane crash in 2010 that killed high-level Polish dignitaries — including then President Lech Kaczyński — who were on their way to commemorate a massacre of Poles killed by the Soviets during the Second World War.
Giertych said he hopes there will be “a good atmosphere” during the questioning, which is scheduled for August 3.
According to the report, Tusk will be questioned about a mix-up with bodies returned from Smoleńsk, after Polish officials allegedly failed to participate in post mortems in Moscow, and did not conduct their own in Warsaw after the bodies arrived. Three former cabinet ministers have also reportedly been questioned in connection with the investigation.
The Polish government, led in effect by the late president’s brother Jarosław Kaczyński, has been locked in a feud with Tusk — who was the prime minister when the crash took place — since Jarosław’s Law and Justice party came to power in 2015.
Many within the government say they believe Tusk was responsible for the crash. Defense Minister Antoni Macierewicz asked prosecutors in April to investigate Tusk, whom he suspects of “committing a crime” against Poland.
Tusk was also questioned by prosecutors in April as a witness in a separate counter-intelligence investigation.
The Frankfurter Allgemeine and the Süddeutsche Zeiting led their front pages with news of a European Court of Justice ruling released Wednesday that green-lit Austria and Slovenia’s decision to deport hundred of migrants to Croatia — their country of arrival in the EU. The papers pondered how the ruling may affect Germany, the EU’s largest recipient of migrants. While the ruling focused on Croatia’s responsibility as the first country of arrival in accordance with the Dublin Regulations, the court also said other EU countries can voluntarily examine asylum applications even if they are not the first country of arrival, “confirming [the German government’s] refugee policy,” according to FA. “Merkel’s border opening was permitted,” SZ wrote.
Right-leaning Die Welt rubbished the idea the ruling was a vindication of Merkel’s “open-door” refugee policy. In an editorial, the paper wrote, “To interpret this as confirmation of Angela Merkel’s refugee policy, as some already try to do, is somewhat daring. The judgment is more an indication that the legal situation is contradictory, and is difficult to reconcile with reality.”


Tax, labor and fires dominated the news on Thursday. Le Monde led with a report indicating the government plans to deregulate fixed-term contracts as part of its labor reforms package. It also reported on the forest fires engulfing the country’s southeast, which have forced 12,000 people out of their homes. Right-leaning Le Figaro tut-tutted about France’s tax policy on its front page. The paper, which supports free markets, published a report that calculated the portion of the year workers dedicate to paying tax. Accordingly, French citizens would stop paying taxes to the government and start keeping cash for themselves July 29, the most tardy across the EU (Belgium comes a close second as its “tax liberation day” is July 27). An editorial titled, “A sadly French record,” lamented this fact.
Libération led with a story on France’s lobby problems. It argued an upcoming law meant to tackle graft in politics should also tackle “the shadow of lobbies.” The paper indirectly linked the issue of lobbying with the fires engulfing the country, running a picture of a tennis court in the foreground with heavy smoke in the background.


Most British papers featured pictures of the French Riviera on their front pages, perhaps because “tourists — many of them British — sleep on French Riviera beaches after being forced to flee [France’s] forest fires,” as the Daily Mail put it. The Guardian led with a story on “big city leaders” unhappy with the new clean air plan. The Financial Times led with Home Secretary Amber Rudd’s promise that EU workers will still have access to the British labor marker after Brexit. The Times investigated sex abuse at care homes.


Much of the Spanish press was abuzz with news of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s appearance in front of a tribunal — the first ever for a sitting prime minister. The corruption investigation, known as the Gürtel case, is looking into alleged kickbacks for public contracts involving local administrations under the control of Rajoy’s Popular Party and the illegal financing of the same party. “Rajoy escapes without [giving] answers,” El País said. El Mundo led with “Rajoy resists first assault.”
In other news, the Catalan parliament passed a bill that would allow the region to implement an “express” secession process, according to La Vanguardia. This means the bill that would allow the regional government to hold the referendum scheduled on October 1 — a referendum the Madrid government still deems illegal — will be voted on without debate or possible amendments from the opposition.


After a week sparring with his attorney general and steaming over the Russia investigation consuming his agenda, President Donald Trump was closing in on an important win.
House Republicans were planning to pass a spending bill stacked with his campaign promises, including money to build his border wall with Mexico.
But an internal House Republican fight over transgender troops was threatening to blow up the bill. And House Republican insiders feared they might not have the votes to pass the legislation because defense hawks wanted a ban on Pentagon-funded sex reassignment operations — something Republican leaders wouldn’t give them.
They turned to Trump, who didn’t hesitate. In the flash of a tweet, he announced that transgender troops would be banned altogether.
Trump’s sudden decision was, in part, a last-ditch attempt to save a House proposal full of his campaign promises that was on the verge of defeat, numerous congressional and White House sources said.
The president had always planned to scale back policies put in place during the administration of President Barack Obama welcoming such individuals in combat and greenlighting the military to pay for their medical treatment plans. But a behind-the-scenes Republican brawl threatening to tank a Pentagon funding increase and wall construction hastened Trump’s decision.
Numerous House conservatives and defense hawks this week had threatened to derail their own legislation if it did not include a prohibition on Pentagon funding for gender reassignment surgeries, which they deem a waste of taxpayer money. But Republican leaders were caught in a pinch between those demands and those of moderate Republicans who considered the proposal blatantly discriminatory.
“There are several members of the conference who feel this really needs to be addressed,” senior House Appropriations Committee member Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.) said Tuesday. “This isn’t about the transgender issue; it’s about the taxpayer dollars going to pay for the surgery out of the defense budget.”
That’s why House lawmakers took the matter to the Trump administration. And when Defense Secretary James Mattis refused to immediately upend the policy, they went straight to the White House. Trump — never one for political correctness — was all too happy to oblige.
“[P]lease be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military,” Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. “Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.”
The president’s directive, of course, took the House issue a step beyond paying for gender reassignment surgery and other medical treatment. House Republicans were never debating expelling all transgender troops from the military.
“This is like someone told the White House to light a candle on the table and the WH set the whole table on fire,” a senior House Republican aide said in an email. The source said that although Republican leaders asked the White House for help on the taxpayer matter specifically, they weren’t expecting — and got no heads up on — Trump’s far-reaching directive.
While Democrats and centrist Republicans are already blasting the move, one White House official said the decision would be “seen as common-sense” by millions — though likely vociferously protested by others. White House officials also noted that conservatives had pushed for the ban, including in a May letter that was signed by dozens of right-leaning groups.
“It’s not the worst thing in the world to have this fight,” the administration official said.
The announcement, multiple sources said, did not sit well with Mattis, who appeared to be trying to avoid the matter in recent weeks. An extensive Defense Department review of the policy was already underway, but a decision wasn’t expected for months.
Insiders said Mattis felt there was no need to rush upending the policy, arguing the Pentagon needed time to study the issue. Its decision would affect at least 2,450 transgender active-military personnel, according to a Rand report — though military LGBT activist groups say as many as 15,000 soldiers fall into that category.
That timeline, however, wasn’t good enough for House Republicans. Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), the original author of the House’s transgender proposal, attempted to reach Mattis by phone numerous times in recent weeks to discuss the transgender issue.
Mattis only got back to her the day she forced the matter on the House floor in mid-July. And, according to Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), who opposed the Hartzler proposal, Mattis asked Hartzler to withdraw her amendment and give him space to maneuver.
Lawmakers, including Hartzler, went around Mattis to engage the White House. Mattis knew the ban was being considered and was consulted before the announcement, according to several White House officials. But the decision ultimately came down from Trump and was “White House-driven,” Trump aides said.
The president was also annoyed by the Pentagon delay, one person said. A different official said the White House had gotten positive reaction from conservatives, an important factor amid their displeasure with Trump’s recent bashing of Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
The transgender fight first surfaced in the House a few weeks ago. With the backing of almost the entire Republican Conference, Hartzler offered an amendment to a defense authorization bill that would ban funding for gender reassignment surgeries and treatments for transgender active-duty personnel.
Republican supporters were shocked when a group of 24 mostly moderate Republicans teamed up with 190 Democrats to kill the effort in a 209-214 vote.
Republicans spent much of a closed-door Republican Conference meeting the next morning steaming about what happened.
“It’s not so much the transgender surgery issue as much as we continue to let the defense bill be the mule for all of these social experiments that the left wants to try to [foist] on government,” Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), a conservative supporter of the Hartzler proposal, said last week.
He added: “It seems to me, and all due respect to everyone, that if someone wants to come to the military, potentially risk their life to save the country, that they should probably decide whether they’re a man or woman before they do that.”
Supporters of Hartzler’s proposal were determined to try again. Last week, they began pushing Republican leadership to use a procedural trick to automatically include the controversial proposal in a Pentagon spending package set for a floor vote this week. The idea was to tuck the provision into a rules package governing the legislation, sidestepping a second potentially unsuccessful amendment vote and adding it to the bill without a floor fight.
Under intense pressure from moderates in the Tuesday Group to reject the idea, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and his team shied away from the strategy, worried that it would make them look hypocritical for circumventing regular order.
“Leadership should respect the will of the House — and that’s already been expressed,” said Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), a centrist who opposed the amendment. “These transgender service-people are serving our country and have signed up and agreed to risk their lives for this country, so we want to honor that commitment as well.”
“Conservatives were telling [the] White House they didn’t want money in a spending bill to go to transgender health services,” said one senior administration official, noting that it accelerated Trump’s decision.
Their argument fell on sympathetic ears, White House sources said. Chief strategist Steve Bannon encouraged Trump to deal with the matter now.
Now, some Republicans hare having buyer’s remorse. They didn’t realize Trump was going to ban transgender people from serving in the military altogether.
Franks, the Hartzler amendment supporter, told POLITICO that his push was more narrowly tailored to the medical procedures issue — not an all-out ban on transgender people. He wasn’t sure what he thought about the broader prohibition, saying he needed to look into it further.
Still, some, like Hartzler, were elated.
“This was the right call by our commander in chief, to make sure every defense dollar goes toward meeting the threats that we are facing in the world,” she said in an interview. “The entire [Obama-era transgender] policy… is a detriment to our readiness.”
For European Council President Donald Tusk, the EU’s Poland problem is not just another crisis.
The former Polish prime minister can’t just treat the fight over Warsaw’s proposed judicial changes, which the European Commission has condemned as undermining democracy and rule-of-law, as a straightforward policy challenge like the Greek financial meltdown or the migration crisis.
To Tusk, it’s a source of deep personal distress, even embarrassment, according to friends, colleagues and observers.
“He is in an uncomfortable situation; this is hard on him,” said Roland Freudenstein, policy director of the Wilfried Martens Centre, a Brussels think tank affiliated with the European People’s Party.
“He believes he is speaking for the central values of the European Union, that he is keeping the Union together,” said Freudenstein, who served as director of the Warsaw office of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation from 1995 to 2001 and has closely followed Tusk’s career. “But he doesn’t want to look like he is escalating the conflict with the Polish government.”
The Commission on Wednesday fired another warning shot in its running battle with Warsaw, preemptively authorizing the initiation of a disciplinary procedure that could ultimately result in a suspension of Poland’s EU voting rights, if the government continues its efforts to seize control of the judiciary.
It’s the EU’s latest and boldest salvo in a fight that has left Tusk walking a political high-wire, criticizing the Polish government as he deems necessary to defend EU standards, while trying to avoid being portrayed as a traitor by opponents back home — or being viewed on the European stage as getting drawn too deeply into a domestic dispute.
At the same time, Tusk is seeking to keep his future political options open: His term as Council president ends in 2019, just in time for him to return to Poland and compete in presidential elections in 2020. It is not clear he would fare well in a bid to relaunch his national career, or even how receptive his own Party Civic Platform would be to the idea. Political analysts in Poland say they believe such a decision is still a long way off.
In the meantime, Tusk has sought to stay focused on his day job, even as events in Warsaw captivate his attention and that of much of his Cabinet on the 11th floor of the Council’s Europa building. That was certainly the case on Monday when aides were consumed by speculation about what prompted Polish President Andrzej Duda to break with the ruling Law and Justice party and its leader Jarosław Kaczyński, declaring that he would veto two controversial laws that would have put the country’s judiciary under the government’s control.
The previous Thursday, Tusk had sought an emergency meeting with Duda about the proposed legislation. His request was rebuffed, but two of their senior aides spoke. Duda also received a phone call from German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and on Friday, with protesters on the streets of Warsaw, the U.S. State Department issued a warning that the legislation appeared “to undermine judicial independence and weaken the rule of law.”
Tusk’s own statement, describing his request for meeting, conveyed his own deep concern. “It is my belief that [the ruling party’s] most recent actions go against European values and standards and risk damaging our reputation,” he said. “They transport us — in the political sense — in time and space: backwards and eastwards.”
Democracy in Poland has been Tusk’s life mission. A 60-year-old native of Gdańsk, he grew up behind the Iron Curtain and was active in the anti-Communist Students’ Solidarity Committee in the late 1970s before going on to become one of his country’s most successful post-communist politicians.
A day after the death, in May, of the Polish-American statesman and scholar Zbigniew Brzezinski, Tusk took to his private Twitter feed — the one in Polish that he manages mostly himself and where he occasionally posts unplugged reflections — to quote the one-time U.S. national security adviser: “Brzezinski, a year ago: ‘Mr. Donald, Poland’s place is in Europe. Please keep an eye on it.’ So be it, Professor.”
At news conferences, Tusk often talks about living under communist rule. And when he recently quoted John Lennon — “You may say that I’m a dreamer” — to say there was still a chance the U.K. might not leave the EU, it was clear that the band held the same special place in his imagination that it did for millions of others during the Cold War who viewed rock ’n’ roll as synonymous with democracy and freedom.
Associates of Tusk said he is cautious in commenting about Poland in Brussels. The country’s voters have made clear that they don’t appreciate its internal feuds being aired in public.
When the Polish government opposed Tusk’s reelection to a second term as Council president in March and instead put forward a veteran MEP as a challenger, the move backfired, giving the opposition its biggest lift in years.
Last month, when Tusk chastised Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło for comments she made in a speech at the Auschwitz concentration camp, he did so in Polish, from his personal Twitter account. And when he comments on the situation in Poland, he tends to do so in Polish to Polish media, as he has in recent interviews on Polish television about the controversial legislation.
Tusk’s sensitivity to any perception of Brussels as anti-Poland was clear in one interview he gave last week on Polish television. Asked if Poland’s EU membership might be in jeopardy, Tusk replied: “I would like to say this very clearly. Here in Brussels no one wants to lash out at Poland.”
“In Brussels, and in all of Europe, people ask me how to persuade our Polish partners not to do bad things,” Tusk said.
“When it comes to EU membership,” he added, “There is no threat coming from Europe — today that threat is lurking in Poland. If anyone today is working towards stripping Poland of the benefits of EU membership, it is not people in Brussels, Paris, Madrid or Berlin. They are people I meet in Warsaw these days — not on the streets, but in officials’ private offices.”
European Commission officials leading the discussions with the Polish government, including First Vice President Frans Timmermans, declined to comment on Tusk. Privately, officials insist that the Council president has not complicated the situation, particularly because his views are closely aligned with other leaders in Brussels and the official Commission position.
But when concerns first surfaced more than a year ago, some associates said Tusk was reluctant to get involved and his first instinct, in response to statements by Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and others, was to prevent punitive action.
“I think he was very unhappy by the first movement by Timmermans and Juncker in early 2016 against Kaczyński,” one associate said. “At that time, he still believed talking will help.” The associate said Tusk opposed opening a formal process.
Any such resistance evaporated late last year when it became clear that the government in Warsaw was intent on eliminating the independence of the judiciary and sharply tightening executive control.
The tension between Tusk and Law and Justice has also taken a sharp personal turn. He has been accused of treason and threatened with prosecution for murder by Kaczyński, who holds Tusk responsible for the death of his brother, Lech Kaczyński, in a 2010 plane crash in Smolensk, Russia.
The government has also sought to link him to other scandals. In April, Tusk endured more than eight hours of questioning by Polish prosecutors examining alleged illegal contacts between Polish and Russian intelligence officials during Tusk’s time as prime minister. He was identified as a witness, not a suspect, in that inquiry.
Tusk, who has branded that case political, arrived in Warsaw for his interrogation by train, and was greeted by a large throng of supporters and critics.  Afterward, he told reporters: “the whole case has a highly political character.”
A senior Polish diplomat who has known Tusk for years said the rule of law dispute has been a burden, “a headache for the whole EU and for Tusk especially.” But the diplomat said that for Tusk there was clearly also an emotional component. “He has a lot of bitterness seeing the reputation of Poland being damaged,” the diplomat said.
Maïa de La Baume and Michał Broniatowski contributed reporting.
SKOPJE, Macedonia — Even by regional standards, Macedonia’s new Prime Minister Zoran Zaev has a daunting to-do list.
Like most of its Balkan neighbors, the country of around 2 million people is among Europe’s poorest and suffers from deeply entrenched organized crime, widespread corruption and weak rule of law.
But Zaev, a 42-year-old businessman who has never held high office, also faces challenges unique to Macedonia. These include a dispute with neighboring Greece over the country’s name that has blocked its path to the EU and NATO, disagreements with Bulgaria over history and language, tenuous relations between the two largest ethnic groups and a public administration stuffed with officials loyal to the last government.
“Politicians in the past have shown that they abuse the system,” Zaev told POLITICO in his office in the capital, Skopje, sitting in front of a floor-to-ceiling pastoral painting of four maidens at a water fountain — a leftover from his predecessor’s neoclassical makeover of the building.
“I am hoping we will organize society in a different way, with more democracy, more freedom, and more justice.”
Zaev, who served three terms as mayor of the eastern city of Strumica, will need a lot more than hope to make progress. But he has already shown considerable perseverance to get this far. He came to power after a protracted political crisis culminated in April with supporters of the old nationalist-led government storming the parliament and attacking lawmakers, including Zaev, who was left with blood streaming down his face from a head wound.
The violence prompted a change of course by President Gjorge Ivanov, who had refused for months to appoint Zaev prime minister even though he had put together a majority coalition after a parliamentary election. Ivanov had cited fears that Zaev would make too many concessions to Macedonia’s ethnic Albanian minority but he finally let the Social Democrat leader form a government in May.
Zaev himself triggered the crisis — the worst since Macedonia narrowly avoided all-out civil war in 2001 — when he released wiretapped recordings in 2015 that he said were made by state intelligence officials. The wiretaps contained apparent evidence of high-level officials discussing election tampering, corruption, and even a murder cover-up. Thousands of people staged street protests, outraged by the revelations and by the fact the government had been tapping more than 20,000 phone lines.
“The political crisis showed the disastrous state of our society,” Zaev said.
“There are no more secrets in our society. Everybody knows the weaknesses in the judiciary, in state institutions, in the security system, in media … all these checks and balances — every normal country has it. We don’t really have it.”
Zaev, an economist by training, has put forward a series of reforms to strengthen Macedonia’s democratic institutions, which international organizations, including the EU, say were severely undermined during the decade-long rule of the previous prime minister, Nikola Gruevski.
The reforms are also meant to allow Macedonia to open EU accession negotiations after nine months.
Western powers clearly wish Zaev well. One Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, called the new premier “the best chance this country has ever had.”
To achieve his goals, however, Zaev will need to solve a problem that has dogged Macedonia ever since it broke away from collapsing communist Yugoslavia in 1991 — Greece’s objection to the country’s name.
As a region of northern Greece is called Macedonia, Athens argues that Skopje’s use of the name implies a claim on its territory. Greeks are also angry that Skopje lays claim to figures such as Philip of Macedon and Alexander the Great, historically considered part of Greek culture.
Gruevski’s government chose to defy Athens by ordering a huge makeover of Skopje with neoclassical facades and naming chunks of infrastructure such as the main airport and a highway after Alexander the Great.
Zaev says he is ready to make concessions if Athens is ready to drop its opposition to Macedonia’s membership of the EU and NATO.
“If the Greek side is really prepared to help us, we are prepared to think about everything that will be helpful,” he said. “I am not fixed on any issue so everything is possible.”
Zaev also wants to improve relations with Bulgaria by signing a “friendship agreement” when Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov visits early next month.
Macedonia and Bulgaria share linguistic and cultural similarities but also hold differing views of their history and language. Bulgaria does not recognize the Macedonian language, viewing it as a dialect of Bulgarian, and the countries’ historical records differ over whether ancient leaders were ethnically Bulgarian or Macedonian.
The government has presented a draft of the accord to a closed session of parliament, but not yet to the public — an illustration of the tension between Zaev’s desire to make quick progress and his pledge to make politics more transparent.
Zaev said the agreement would not damage the country in any way but make Bulgaria “more dedicated” to friendship. This would make Sofia a staunch advocate for Macedonia when Bulgaria assumes the presidency of the Council of the EU in January 2018, he argued.
“Accepting common history in the agreement is no danger for any country and no danger for us,” he said.
Things are hardly more straightforward on the domestic front.
Zaev said that, upon assuming office, his government found almost a billion euros in previously unreported debt and many of his staff’s offices had been stripped of computers, tables and chairs.
In parliament, VMRO-DPMNE, the former governing party, has split its 51 MPs into 10 parliamentary groups in order to obstruct debate over reforms such as a new budget and the appointment of a chief prosecutor.
The fate of a special prosecutor’s office, set up to investigate the wiretap revelations as part of an EU-brokered effort to end the political crisis back in 2015, also hangs in the balance.
Meanwhile, Zaev is facing pressure from coalition partners who represent the ethnic Albanian minority — estimated to make up around a quarter of the population — to fulfill a pledge increase the official use of the Albanian language.
The new prime minister must also try to free state institutions from the control of officials who got their jobs thanks to their close links to VMRO-DPMNE, while at the same time resisting the temptation to replace them with his own party cronies.
“The new government has the task of reforming, or separating the party from the state in both the judiciary and the administration, which is not easy considering that the public sector is the biggest employer in the country,” said Simonida Kacarska, director of the Skopje-based European Policy Institute think tank.
Nikola Poposki, a VMRO-DPMNE MP who served previously as foreign minister, cautioned that Zaev had “overpromised” and faced a big challenge to “adjust the expectations of voters” in a highly polarized political environment.
But for now, Zaev is choosing to look on the bright side. He hailed the fact that Macedonia managed to reach an agreement with Bulgaria on its own, without mediation from outsiders, which has been the norm in recent decades in the Balkans.
“We are very proud … that we will send a message to the world,” he said. “There is a capacity of politicians, when they want to, to find a solution for those kinds of sensitive problems.”
LONDON — Theresa May’s government has commissioned independent experts to advise on the U.K.’s post-Brexit border policy and the economic impact of immigration from the EU, in a major concession to businesses that have called for a soft Brexit.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd said the study, which will be carried out by the Migration Advisory Committee (MAC), would help ensure ministers set up an immigration system “that works in the best interests of the country.”
The move was welcomed by the British Chambers of Commerce, which said the U.K.’s economic and employment needs were “better evaluated by experts … than by politicians or commentators.”
In a further concession, Rudd is expected to confirm Thursday that a planned post-Brexit “implementation period” will cover immigration policy. While government officials still insist that freedom of movement from the EU will end when the U.K. leaves, Rudd promised in an article in the Financial Times, published Thursday, there will be no “cliff edge” for employers or EU nationals living in the U.K — a signal that a system akin to freedom of movement is likely to be retained at least for a temporary period.
Environment Secretary Michael Gove last week suggested the Cabinet backed free movement continuing for a time after Brexit, saying that a “pragmatic approach” to controlling migration was “in the best interests of the economy.”
The MAC study, which will report in September 2018 but is likely to publish interim reports before then, will examine “the overall role of migration in the wider economy and how the U.K.’s immigration system should be aligned with a modern industrial strategy,” according to a Home Office statement issued Wednesday evening.
It marks the latest softening of the government’s position on post-Brexit immigration. May has made ending freedom of movement one of her red lines in negotiations with the EU, necessitating the U.K.’s departure from the single market. However, since the election, her political position has been weakened, opening the door for more pro-business voices in the cabinet — led by Chancellor Philip Hammond and Business Secretary Greg Clark — to influence Brexit strategy.
The independent research will look at patterns of migration from the EU, regional and sectoral distribution and skill levels of migrants, and the roles of self-employed, part-time, agency, temporary and seasonal workers.
In a letter to the chair of the MAC, Alan Manning, details of which were released by the Home Office, Rudd will say the government is “working towards the goal of achieving sustainable levels of net migration” and that under a future system “we will be able to apply different immigration rules and requirements according to the U.K.’s economic and social needs.”
The MAC is a public body, but sits outside of government. It is apolitical and staffed by independent and experienced immigration experts.
Welcoming the move, Adam Marshall, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: “Business communities across the U.K. tell us that immigration rules need to be based on an objective look at economic trends and needs, which are better evaluated by the experts on the Migration Advisory Committee than by politicians or commentators.
“Over the coming years, changes to the U.K. immigration system should be based on firm evidence, input from employers, and a clear understanding of the different requirements facing each region and nation. While businesses are committed to filling vacancies locally wherever they can, they will still need access to both EU and global candidates with a range of skills in the future.”
However, the pro-EU Liberal Democrats said the MAC research would come too late to offer reassurance to British employers concerned about the impact of Brexit on their workforce.
“The government needs to explain why this study wasn’t commissioned a year ago, directly after the referendum,” said their shadow home secretary and former cabinet minister, Ed Davey. “The NHS, businesses and universities that depend on European citizens need answers now, not in another 14 months’ time.”
PARIS — Three months into his term, Emmanuel Macron faces a problem that other world leaders would love to have: he may be too PR-savvy for his own good.
Counseled by image wizards Sibeth Ndiaye and Sylvain Fort, the 39-year-old swept to power on a wave of magazine covers and public relations stunts. Since taking office, he’s only grown more ambitious on communications, shunning speeches for dramatic photographs, many taken by official Elysée photographer Soazig de la Moissonnière, and video shoots that serve his ambition of being a “Jupiter-like” president, above the fray.
Cue Macron’s bone-crushing handshake with Donald Trump back in May; his James Bond-esque descent into a submarine from a helicopter; or, this week, his visit to an air force base in southern France wearing a suit that looks like the one Lt. Pete “Maverick” Mitchell (a.k.a. Tom Cruise) wears in “Top Gun.”
But as Macron met Wednesday at his office with U.S. pop star Rihanna, having met a day before with U2 frontman Bono, pollsters warned he runs the risk of overplaying his hand. France is highly attuned to the potential for ridicule, excess or striving in any public persona. And with anger growing over a spate of budget cuts to be enforced in the fall, Macron’s image-making could suddenly start to appear out of touch, insensitive or even grotesque.


When Macron’s approval rating plummeted by 10 percentage points in the space of a month, pollster Ifop attributed the drop mainly to anger over budget cuts. But head analyst Jérôme Fourquet also detected frustration with Macron’s frenetic use of public imagery, with respondents citing irritation over what they called “a communications presidency.” Other critics are accusing Macron of acting too much like Russian President Vladimir Putin, another fan of action photographs.
“Macron is very much a man of communications. However, he should be careful because it’s becoming more and more ridiculous,” Dominique and François Gaulme, authors of “Les Habits du Pouvoir” (“The Garments of Power”) wrote in Challenges magazine.
More than half of French voters —  54 percent — still have favorable views of Macron, according to the poll. Some experts believe it may be a good idea not to irritate them with too much Instagrammable imagery, at least until Macron’s toughest reforms get passed.
But careful attention to viral imagery is making Macron world-famous. And as the seven pictures below show, his team is seeking inspiration far and wide for presidential setups, often from the United States (and not only from Barack Obama).
When Macron showed up at Air Base 125 in Istres, southern France, wearing a flight-suit, French commentators immediately thought: “Top Gun.” Macron, a child of the 1980s (he was eight when “Top Gun” came out), was channeling “Maverick” while trying to win over military personnel still boiling over the resignation of former top officer Pierre de Villiers. But the commentators missed out on another, perhaps more obvious, source of inspiration: former U.S. President George W. Bush’s landing aboard an aircraft carrier in full flight gear to make his ill-fated “Mission Accomplished” statement about the war in Iraq. Compare below:

When Macron’s press team released this photo, which shows him being lowered by helicopter into the nuclear submarine “Le Terrible” on July 4, the internet couldn’t cope. Here was the president, a real person, behaving like James Bond or Jason Bourne. The framing of the shot, from above, with dramatic effects on the water from helicopter downdraft, was pure action film. “How freakin’ hardcore is this Macron dude?” tweeted journalist Stanley Pignal. But even as he won plaudits abroad, at home the chattering class was already sneering. “Macron is (over)playing the superhero,” ran a headline in Nouvel Obs magazine.


Here is one drawn directly from former President Barack Obama’s PR playbook: photos of a trim president playing sports. In the top photo, Macron joined a game of wheelchair tennis to promote Paris’ bid to host the 2024 Olympics. In the second, he’s playing a neighborhood game of football in the Paris suburb of Sarcelles between rounds of the presidential election. Below are images of Obama, who was frequently photographed mid-effort, wearing a suit. The message: Your president is fit, trim and ready for action. Don’t you love him?
Macron also likely sought inspiration from the former U.S. president for his official photograph. The French leader poses in front of a window (open) and desk, in front of the French and European flags. In Obama’s version, the president poses in front of a window (closed) and flags of the United States and the presidency. French commentators immediately picked up on the similarities, the careful choice of items on the table (clock, two iPhones, open book), with some dismissing the photo as “too busy.”


Not only does Macron use dramatic photos to highlight his personal links with Obama, he also draws inspiration from his stunts. Back in 2015, the then-U.S. president staged videos and photographs of himself calling voters on Mother’s Day, in a series of “This is Barack Obama” moments. Macron pulled a similar stunt soon after taking office, picking up calls himself at the Elysée presidential palace’s switchboard. Compare and contrast:
 
The president also draws heavily on French influences, namely former President François Mitterrand. The Socialist, who was obsessed with building monuments, some of which he also named after himself, presided over the construction of the glass pyramid at the Louvre in Paris. A photograph of him standing in front of it is one of the most iconic of Mitterrand. Macron used the glass pyramid as the backdrop for his victory speech, in a nod to Mitterrand and his pharaonic conception of the presidency.
Before Macron, there was Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. And before Trudeau, there was U.S. President Barack Obama, another comms wizard. With their liberal leanings, snappy suits and “bro” attitudes toward sports and PR, it’s little surprise that these men have sought each other out for “bromances.” First came the (ongoing) one between Obama and Trudeau, but Macron quickly caught up by courting the Canadian prime minister at their first meeting in Taormina, Italy.
Martin Schulz is keeping himself busy: not only is he trying to become the next chancellor of Germany but he’s also apparently an expert on installing window frames in Russia.
An advertisement in the Russian newspaper Evening Moscow earlier in the week featured a picture that bore a striking resemblance to Schulz, Der Spiegel reported Wednesday. When contacted by German media, the firm behind the advert, Renesant, said it wasn’t the Social Democrat leader at all but Tim Erikson, a Swedish construction expert who specializes in window frames.
However, an identical picture to the one used in the advert can be found on the website of the European Parliament from Schulz’s time as president of the assembly.
Schulz is not the only politician whose likeness has been used in error. In 2016, NBC News used a picture of former U.K Labour Party leader Ed Miliband to illustrate a story about ways to avoid getting the flu.