
This is the end, my friends. It is time to say goodbye. I realize this is the worst possible time for a political columnist to retire, but what I didn’t realize is that any of you cared.
Robert Feder, a famous media writer from Chicago, found out about my retirement a few days ago and I have been flooded with farewells ever since.

I have also been flooded — really, you can read them — with messages on Facebook and Twitter asking me not to retire. Not now. Not, I’m told, when America “needs you.”
I know, I know: It is preposterous. It is laughable. But not to some. For some, I have been the friend they have never met for more than 40 years.
For all those years, my job took me all over the world. My wife and I had precious little time for extended vacations. She stayed behind working at newspapers for 35 years and then running her own editing business.
Now she wants to see the world. And I’d like to go with her while I still can.
As I said, bad timing. So instead of the usual, goopy farewell, I will actually speak my mind. And I will do so no matter how many disagree with me. “Mine enemies grow older,” Alexander King, a social critic, once wrote. It is one of the comforts we columnists have.
We live at a pivotal time because Donald Trump and his thugs have done us a favor. They have shown us that democracy is not inevitable. They have shown us it can fail.
In just a matter of days, they have shown us how democracy can be transformed into something evil. And we can imagine a future of jackboots crashing through our doors at 2 a.m., trucks in the streets to take people to the internment camps, bright lights and barking dogs — and worse.
Does this make me sound hysterical? Maybe. But this is my last chance to be. In its first week, the Trump administration demonstrated its contempt for Mexicans, for Muslims and for Jews. I imagine the true list is longer. Much longer.
Should we keep quiet as we watch this? Is this why America was created?
If, for amusement, you wish to pay attention to the opinion polls, do so. (Jimmy Kimmel said: “Hillary underperformed with women, African-Americans, Latinos and young people. The only group she did well with was pollsters.”)
But the most important poll was created by Henry David Thoreau when he wrote, “any man more right than his neighbors constitutes a majority of one … ”
You are a majority of one. You have a duty to act like it. You have a duty to do something to preserve democracy. Something nonviolent, I hope, but something.
Trump tells civil rights leader John Lewis to keep his mouth shut and then Trump smiles his porcine smile. In what fantasy land, in what delusional world would one desire the words of a bellicose Donald Trump and the silence of John Lewis?
I hear that George Orwell’s classic “1984” is popular again. Good. It is a great read with a real message. But don’t get carried away. Spoiler alert: The bad guys win at the end. Their tentacles of power have reached too deeply and spread too far.
We are told today that truth no longer matters. It does.
We are told human decency is the concern of the weak. It isn’t.
We are told civil liberties can be brushed aside when it is convenient to the wielders of power to so do. Such people should be stopped. They must be stopped.
And there is only the people to stop them.
Is Trump a “legitimate” president? You tell me: Hillary Clinton got 3 million more popular votes. The Russians may have hacked the results. The minority vote continues to be suppressed. And FBI Director James Comey may have influenced the outcome of the election by behavior that ran the gamut from the peculiar to the inexplicable.
Legally, Trump today is legitimate. Who knows what we will find in the future?
What a terrible time to subtract even one puny voice from the forces of opposition to him.
But I must. I leave the writing of a regular column entirely voluntarily. No editor hung a dead chicken over my doorway. And it is a terrific job. A job of spectacular fun and deep satisfaction.
And yet I have no desire to have my corpse discovered late one night draped over my keyboard by the cleaning guy, who whistles a low note and says, “I thought he died years ago.”
Our long national nightmare may have just begun. You, each of you, is a majority of one. You can speak out for me. You don’t need leaders; you just need a conscience.
“I decline to accept the end of man,” William Faulkner wrote. “I believe that man will not merely endure: he will prevail. It is the writer’s privilege to help man endure by lifting his heart.”
Have I lifted a heart? Just once? Just for the most fleeting of moments?
Then I leave you a happy man, one filled with joy. And don’t worry. We will always have each other. And Twitter.
So long.
Roger Simon is POLITICO's chief political columnist.
A hushed conference room with walls paneled in dark wood and a table seating no fewer than 20. Outside in the corridor, security guards patrol none-too-discretely.
Doug W. Elmendorf, dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, sits at the head of the table. He is a small, quiet man whose words carry the weight of a god.

A group of people sit before him around the table. They are being welcomed to the Kennedy School this day “even if their actions or words are abhorrent to some members of our community or are in conflict with the values of the Kennedy School itself.”
They have been invited to these hallowed halls “even if their actions and words cause pain” and not “because we intend to legitimize those views.”
“Each,” Elmendorf insists, “must be treated with civility.”
I look out at the group seated around the table. I expect to see men and women in orange jumpsuits. I expect to see men and women who have more tattoos than teeth. I expect to see the forces of darkness and hear the voices of the night.
I look down at the title sheet of the conference: “Campaign for President: The Managers Look at 2016.”
Sound the alarm, Martha! Ring the tocsin, hide the cows and bury the silver.
The politicians have arrived!
For two days, America’s political elite and the beady-eyed swine — from which the phrase “in a pig’s eye” derives — who are called the national press corps are being hosted at Harvard University, where the truth will be dug out of them.
Truth is, however, a slippery and sometimes dangerous thing. “In a time of deceit,” George Orwell wrote, “telling the truth is a revolutionary act.”
Corey Lewandowski, who perpetually looks like a man who has just consumed a bag of prunes and was Donald Trump’s first campaign manager, said that in 2016 the old ways would not work. “Our goal was to run as a wealthy man, not run from it,” Lewandowski said. “Let Trump be Trump. It didn’t matter what he did; his supporters would never leave him.”
And you could see a bunch of chins, the chins of the other campaign managers around the table, nod in sad agreement.
“I’d just go to him, and he’d write a check,” Lewandowski said. “That was our fundraising.”
So remember that, you young people who are thinking about going into politics: Be born rich. It really helps.
Or you could acquire other benefits.
Hillary Clinton’s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, said the Trump campaign “provided a platform for white supremacists. It may be a brilliant tactic [but] I am glad to have lost. I would rather lose than win the way you guys did.”
“Wow,” Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s third and final campaign manager, said. “Do you think I ran a campaign where white supremacists had a platform? Are you going to look me in the face and tell me that?
“I did, Kellyanne,” Palmieri said. “I did. I did.”
And, needless to say, the media were a big problem, too.
“The inability to get coverage on issues is so profound,” said Joel Benenson, one of Clinton’s top aides, “we need to examine that. The focus on process really weakens us.”
Most of the Harvard conference was about process, however. Process is the nasty, fun, contentious, combative stuff. Process brings out the campaign managers and the press, who sit around a big table and talk about the evils of process.
You want to talk about issues? Maybe later. If there’s time. And don’t forget process can be profound. Seriously. Like when Barry Bennett, a Trump adviser, said that candidates who stressed their long records of public service “were just shooting themselves in the foot.”
“That said, you were a good politician and people didn’t want good politicians!” Bennett said.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mike Huckabee's daughter and campaign aide, said: “Nobody cared about solutions. They just wanted to burn it all down. And do something with the ashes later.”
Which made for a fascinating conference. But what about that place just outside Harvard called the United States of America? What happens to it?
“There is a risk and real danger Trump poses to America,” Benenson said. “He’s a risk to our national security and a risk to dividing this country.”
And that was just about enough as far as Conway could be pushed. “He won!” Conway said as if she were teaching civics to a group of Martians. “People decided how they felt and he won!”
“You won the Electoral College,” Benenson sneered. “Don’t pretend there was a mandate by a majority of voters.”
The Trump people erupted en masse and one got the distinct impression Benenson was enjoying himself. “There were 2½ million [more] Americans who thought she was the better candidate,” he said.
“Is it possible there are people who don’t like her and don’t trust her?” Conway said. “That she doesn’t connect with people?”
Hillary aide Mandy Grunwald, who has been working in politics approximately forever, said the Trump people were being too modest. “I don’t think you guys give yourself enough credit for the negative campaign you ran,” she said.
There was charge and countercharge. And, of course, the inevitable claim that Trump simply lied his way — month after month, week after week, day after day, hour after hour — to the Oval Office. A claim backed up by videotapes, audiotapes and mere facts.
But Lewandowski had an answer for that, too:
“This is the problem with the media,” he said. “You guys took everything that Donald Trump said so literally. The American people didn’t. They understood it. They understood that sometimes, when you have a conversation with people, whether it’s around the dinner table or at a bar, you’re going to say things, and sometimes you don’t have all the facts to back it up.”
But you know what? You don’t have to back it up. You don’t even have to get the most votes. Truth and lies seem to count the same in presidential politics today.
How about a conference on that?
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
For the sake of the American voter, both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump should keep their word and release additional information about their respective medical histories and current health, The New York Times' editorial board declared in a piece published Monday.
While acknowledging that releasing health information to the public is not a requirement to be president, the newspaper remarked upon President Barack Obama's "graying hair" as an indicator of the American presidency as "perhaps the most grueling and stressful political job there is."

Both Trump and Clinton "would be doing American voters a great service by furnishing a much clearer picture of their physical health than the abbreviated and sunny reports provided so far," the board wrote, after the Democratic nominee was rushed away from a 9/11 memorial event while battling a case of pneumonia that the campaign did not disclose upon its diagnosis last Friday.
While Clinton has been more forthcoming with her medical records than Trump, the former secretary of state's July 2015 note from her physician "could use some updating," the board continued, granting that presidents have become more transparent, not less, over the last several decades.
Compared with Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy, who hid their physical ailments from the American public, more recent presidents and candidates have been more open about their conditions, the board noted, pointing to Ronald Reagan's openness about colon cancer, John McCain's health transparency in 2008 and Obama's 2014 disclosure of acid reflux.
"Now Americans are deciding between Mr. Trump, who is 70, and Mrs. Clinton, who is 68. Whoever prevails will have to deal with round-the-clock demands, so it seems entirely relevant to inquire about their medical histories and current health," the board concluded, adding that should both candidates fulfill their pledges "and provide plenty of detail, the winners will be the voters."
For a guy who won’t even release his tax returns, Donald Trump has become America’s leading crime fighter.
He doesn’t want people to know how much money he makes, or how much he pays in taxes, or how much he gives to charity.

Other presidents have had no trouble with this. As Fox’s Chris Wallace said on May 15, “Every Republican nominee since Richard Nixon, who at one time was under an audit, has released their tax returns.”
True, Nixon did not release his returns until after he was reelected (he was a crook, not an idiot), but that was more than Trump has released.
Democrats like Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry Truman, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, Joe Biden, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders released their tax returns. True, Hillary is in a big controversy because she tried to keep some government emails confidential. As far as we know, she committed no crime in doing so. But some are now acting as though she stole the Mona Lisa.
Trump thundered on Monday that we need an immediate investigation into the Clinton Foundation by a special prosecutor. I don’t have any problem with that. But let’s have a special prosecutor investigate Trump’s tax returns at the same time.
Because fair is fair, right?
Trump has assembled a new inner circle because he ran over the last one in his bus. Then he backed up and ran over the inner circle again. The inner circle has written a nice little stump speech for Trump. It is short, powerful and punchy. And it is on a teleprompter in case he loses his place, which he often seems to do.
So the Republicans now have a candidate. They have an inner circle, they have a punchy stump speech and now they just need one more thing: an audience dopey enough to believe it all.
“Give me a chance,” Trump begs at every speech. “What the hell do you have to lose?” If you are a minority in America, you are probably living a life of desperate misery and hopeless poverty, Trump says. So why not take a risk by voting for Trump? How could he make things worse?
In reality, being a minority member in America does not condemn you to a life of misery or poverty. But in Trump’s world, a world in which he rubs elbows only with those minority members who cut his lawn and serve him hors d’oeuvres, minorities live in an underclass from which they cannot escape.
Trump is not a lawyer, but he has run the Miss Universe Pageant, which has given him incredible insight into other cultures.
At his presidential announcement speech on June 16, 2015, Trump said: “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”
At least 16 other Republicans ran for president in this election cycle. Did the Republican Party send its best, or did people like Mike Huckabee, Rand Paul, Rick Santorum, Carly Fiorina, Ted Cruz and Chris Christie try to bring their problems with them into the White House?
Some, I assume, are good people. But when a candidate won’t even show you his tax returns, doesn’t that seem a little suspicious?
Which brings us back to crime and Trump’s new mantra: “Give me a chance. What the hell do you have to lose?”
Afraid to walk down your street at night? You won’t under a President Trump. Afraid of rapes and robberies and the scourge of drugs in your neighborhood? Just beep The Donald.
For just a small fee (shipping extra), his campaign will send you one of those devices you can talk into and say: “I’ve fallen and I can’t get up!” or “There’s a minority member looking at me funny from down the block. Can you come and arrest him?”
And Trump will do it! Give him a chance. What do you have to lose?
Hillary? Hillary “lacks the mental and physical stamina to take on ISIS,” Trump claims.
“To defeat crime and radical Islamic terrorism in our country, to win trade in our country, you need tremendous physical and mental strength and stamina,” says Trump. “Hillary Clinton doesn’t have that strength and stamina.”
How does he know? He doesn’t. He is not a doctor. And Hillary’s doctor has given her a complete bill of health.
Trump’s doctor since 1980 has been Dr. Harold Borenstein and he gave Trump a glowing, though oddly worded statement of health.
Borenstein, a gastroenterologist, examined Trump and wrote that: “If elected, Mr. Trump, I can state unequivocally, will be the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency.”
How does he know that? How could he possibly go back in time to determine that? He couldn’t. It’s all just nuttiness. It’s all just politics.
“I do feel at times this campaign has entered into an alternative universe,” Hillary Clinton said Monday.
I think we all know how she feels.
Roger Simon is POLITICO's chief political columnist.
Did he say anything?
I had been interviewing a source, and I couldn’t take my cellphone out of my pocket every time it buzzed. So for 20 minutes, I was cut off from the outside world, I was cut off from him. I was cut off from my Trump fix.

No Twitter. No texts. No websites. No cable TV.
My palms were sweaty. My heart was pounding. Anything could have happened.
So I fired up my iPhone and checked Twitter.
The New York Times had the scoop: “Donald Trump Parts Ways With Corey Lewandowski, His Campaign Manager.”
Then there was this attack-tweet from Hillary Clinton’s chief strategist Joel Benenson: “Polls drop. Trump dumps mgr. S. Beckett: ‘There’s man all over for you, blaming on his boots the faults of his feet.’”
S. Beckett refers to Samuel Beckett, an Irish playwright and Nobel Prize winner, who is currently dead. The quotation came from Beckett’s play “Waiting for Godot,” which debuted in 1953. In it, people sit around and talk and talk while accomplishing virtually nothing.
The play is, in other words, a metaphor for modern presidential campaigning.
The Trump campaign officially tweeted: “The campaign is grateful to Corey for his hard work and dedication and we wish him the best in the future.”
This is standard pol-speak for: “Don’t let the door hit you in the butt on your way out and if you try to steal any Sharpies, you will be arrested and beaten.”
The Politico story quoted a senior Trump aide as saying that “Lewandowski was not getting along with the Republican National Committee, that there was a recognition that the campaign was falling behind Hillary Clinton from an infrastructure perspective and that there was recognition that Lewandowski was no longer up to the job.”
In addition, there must have been a heck of a lot of Sharpies missing.
The story dominated cable, with CNN reporting that Ivanka Trump, Donald’s oldest daughter, had a one-on-one meeting with her father over the weekend and demanded that Lewandowski be dumped.
Given the choice of picking a new campaign manager or picking a new oldest daughter, Trump went with Ivanka.
But getting rid of Lewandowski did serve one positive purpose. It changed the Trump “story of the day” — there always has to be at least one — away from a speech in which Trump had said: “Belgium is a beautiful city.”
It is not. And I don’t need some Irish Nobel Prize winner to tell me that. All I need is a map of Europe. Belgium is a country. Brussels, its capital, is a city. Both begin with the letter “b,” which is why Trump ran into trouble. He majored in screwing other people on bad deals, not geography.
So dumping Lewandowski, embarrassing as it was, gave the media something else to write about. Like how embarrassing Trump’s running mate is going to be. Take Newt Gingrich. Please.
Rick Tyler, a former Ted Cruz spokesman who was fired in February for posting fake tweets and Facebook entries about Marco Rubio — are you following all this? — said recently:
“I don’t know two other people who can command more media attention than Newt Gingrich and Donald Trump. Keeping your enemies constantly on defense, constantly off balance, constantly explaining themselves. Newt knows how to do that.”
Newt also knows how to make news. Like when he advocated building a permanent base on the moon by the end of his second presidential term and using the base for manned flights to Mars.
This is exactly the kind of vice president Trump needs. It lets him say, “I might be nuts, but Newt is bat-poo crazy. So don’t even dream of impeaching me.”
What Hillary needs to learn from all this is how to go on the offense against Trump. She has to be proactive instead of reactive. She has to make people say, “Did she say anything? Did I miss anything Hillary said?”
And there are signs she is beginning to get it. A few weeks ago, Hillary jumped all over Trump.
“Donald Trump’s ideas aren’t just different — they are dangerously incoherent,” Clinton said. “They’re not really ideas, just a series of bizarre rants, personal feuds and outright lies.”
Trump reacted with typical aplomb: which is to say, he went into a series of bizarre rants.
“I have a strong temperament, and it’s a very good temperament and it’s a very in control temperament or I wouldn’t have built this unbelievable company, I wouldn’t have built all of the things that I’ve been able to do in life!” he spluttered. “I mean, No. 1 best-sellers, one of the best-selling books of all time, tremendous television success. … Uh, television, ‘The Apprentice,’ which is, forget it. I mean NBC came to me. They wanted to renew so badly, you have no idea.”
Yes, we have no idea.
On Wednesday, Trump will fly to Scotland and then to Ireland to show off his golf courses there. He is scheduled to return to America on Saturday.
Which leaves us with one big question: Should we let him back in?
Roger Simon is POLITICO's chief political columnist.
Time and again, the populist appeal of Donald Trump is said to be that he speaks his mind and “tells it like it is.”
But so much of the Trump-driven pressure on Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) now seems in the opposite direction: Don’t speak your mind, don’t tell it like it is.

The same young wonk from the Midwest — too pure to support a bipartisan farm bill just three years ago—is now expected to embrace the rough-talking New York billionaire who violates so much of what Ryan learned from his mentor, the late Rep. Jack Kemp (R-N.Y.).
If this were happening to some jaded speaker in his last years in office, it might be written off as business as usual. But Ryan is in his 40s and will have to live with whatever compromises he makes.
It’s really the stuff of a Washington novel. Or for the literary crowd down at the Obama White House, maybe even an echo of Melville’s “Billy Budd” and Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness.”
What’s more, it comes on top of the fact that Ryan was previously asked to sacrifice his independence for the good of the GOP by taking on the speakership after former Speaker John Boehner bailed out last fall.
That job is a slippery slope in its own right since Ryan’s House Republicans are really two parties in one. For many of the most difficult issues, Ryan — like Boehner before him — really commands a plurality, not an effective majority. And progress so often rests on building coalitions with the third party, the Democrats — a risky business given the uncompromising demands of the Republicans’ conservative base.
The continued budget impasse is just the latest example. Ryan, who made his political name as House Budget chairman, can’t get the votes to pass a GOP budget now when he is ostensibly more powerful as speaker.
For sure, there is a measure of hokum in all of this endorsement drama.
Do any politicians — Trump or Ryan — really “tell it as it is"? Or do voters fool themselves because they are hearing what they want to hear? And if Trump has shown a gift for flimflam, Ryan’s famous budget plans have had their share of illusions as well.
To get to balance, he quietly shaved half a percentage point from the annual cost of his Medicare reforms. And back in the tortuous farm bill debate, then Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) became the villain when he tried to write actual legislation that achieved some of the promised food stamp savings that Ryan’s budget had blithely assumed.
Nonetheless, to blur over the huge differences between Ryan and Trump is really to give lie to both men.
Ryan has the most to lose, but Trump could be hurt as well. He wants Ryan’s endorsement as another step toward uniting the party he has captured. But is he really well served by submerging the independence in others — the same quality he celebrates in himself? Doesn’t this play right into his opponents’ criticism that he is an authoritarian bully who wants only his way?
In truth, Trump could learn a lot from Ryan both in terms of policy and how to deal with Congress. Ryan could learn too from Trump. The New Yorker has tapped into the genuine anger of working-class voters whose economic troubles have been too long ignored by Ryan’s Washington. And Trump’s willingness to “deal” — small or big — could he healthy for a House GOP that has seemed forever trapped in its self-defeating ideology and demands for anti-tax purity.
One possible truce would be for each man to endorse the other as equals at the same time.
For eight years, Republicans have complained about what they see as the steady encroachment of executive power under President Barack Obama. If Trump wants Ryan’s backing, might he not endorse the speaker in turn? And with that, the right of Congress — as an equal branch — to speak its mind too and “tell it like it is.”
The beast did not create Donald Trump. Donald Trump kept the beast alive. Without billions in free advertising (i.e., news coverage), Trump would have withered and blown away like other classic also-ran candidates: Ross Perot, Herman Cain, Ben Carson.
Trump drove numbers. He got clicks. He puts couch potatoes in their couches and keeps them there.

And when it came to thinking about how much Trump coverage to provide, the media bosses didn’t have to think very hard: If you ran a restaurant and people kept asking for apple pie, you didn’t offer rhubarb instead.
In 1998, I was hired by the Chicago Tribune to do think pieces (“thumb-suckers,” as they were called in the business) on the American presidency and the American people. I started in the beginning of January.
On a bitterly cold Saturday, Jan. 17, President Bill Clinton made the one-block trip in the presidential limousine from the White House to the 11th-floor offices of his lawyer, Robert S. Bennett.
The White House was visible from the office windows. Under oath, Clinton denied ever having had sex with Monica Lewinsky. After six hours, with a 15-minute break for lunch, he left the offices looking confident and unshaken, which is Clinton’s default mode.
Unceasingly for the rest of the year, the Lewinsky story drove White House coverage. The story involved vivid descriptions of sexual acts, and back in 1998, the media were not prepared for mainstream coverage of such things.
Feeling that we had gone overboard — my stories were on the front page day after day — my editors would call me from Chicago and tell me to hold back, dial down, look for other White House stories for awhile.
I was delighted. Along with many other White House reporters, I was thoroughly sick of the Lewinsky saga.
But then the calls began. Readers were upset. “Why are you protecting Clinton?” “Why don’t you tell the whole truth about that guy?” “What are you hiding?”
And on and on and on. And so we would return to Monica and Monica and Monica.
Did Trump decide this week that invoking Lewinsky’s name would be a good way of changing the press narrative? Of getting the media to swivel its guns from stories about how he was changing his positions to a story he believed would embarrass Hillary Clinton?
According to CNN: “Donald Trump said Monday he called Hillary Clinton an ‘enabler’ of her husband’s infidelity as ‘retribution’ for her playing the ‘woman’s card’ against him.”
It is probably true. To examine the mind of Trump is to enter a murky and intricate passage.
To many, Lewinsky is barely a story. It is 18 years old, and many have little or no recollection of it. In one respect, it is like O.J. Simpson’s 1994-95 murder trial: a story that went viral before there was viral technology.
You would think Trump would be delighted with all the (free) media coverage he is getting. But he is not. He is a control freak, and he can’t control the story to the degree that he would like.
And others are in charge of his life, which he considers his private property, public figure or no public figure.
“The elite,” Trump sneered in an interview earlier this year. “The eggheads you see on television. I have a nicer apartment than they do. I have a nicer plane. They’re the elite? I’m smarter than they are.”
If the media created Trump, not everybody got the memo. Editorial pages are not just gloomy over the possibility of a Trump presidency, they are downright apocalyptic.
A New York Times editorial on May 3 stated: “The Republican Party’s trek into the darkness took a fateful step in Indiana on Tuesday.”
It continued: “‘I’m watching a 160-year-old political party commit suicide,’ said Henry Olsen, an elections analyst with the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a conservative think tank. Republicans will all but certainly nominate Mr. Trump, who would be the most volatile and least-prepared presidential candidate nominated by a major party in modern times.”
The media helped make Trump, and Trump helped the media pay their bills. But the media also tried to keep Trump in check by correcting the record when he strayed — distressingly often — from the truth.
Trump and the media fed upon each other. It was a marriage made in hell.
It was also depressing to see how far a presidential candidate could get by exploiting fear, hatred, racism and bigotry.
We should not be surprised. It had been predicted. All one needs to do is go down to the Jefferson Memorial and see the words carved in the Georgia marble there:
“Indeed, I tremble for my country,” Thomas Jefferson wrote, “when I reflect that God is just …”
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
There are three major political parties in the United States: the Republicans, the Democrats and the Trumpeters.
The Republicans blow their horns for the rich. The Democrats blow their horns for the poor. And the Trumpeters just blow.

While the Republicans and Democrats are very angry, the Trumpeters are furious. The other two parties are looking for a winner. The Trumpeters are looking for a savior.
This savior will find an enemy to blame for America’s woes. This enemy will have dark skin and a foreign accent and will not be a “true” American no matter what his (probably phony) birth certificate says.
The savior will have a message. And it will not be unique. Andrew Jackson did pretty well with it in 1832, and a century later, it still has not lost its power. “Every man a king!” Huey Long told crowds in Louisiana in the early 1930s. “That’s my slogan!”
In February 1976, I interviewed George Wallace in the white, working-class neighborhood of Southie in Boston. Five hundred people packed into a small hall, and 300 others waited outside. Wallace spoke for nearly an hour in a strong, resonating voice.
“You will be the kings and queens of American politics!” Wallace thundered. “You! The working men and women will be the kings and queens instead of the ultra-liberal left that has been getting everything all the time. Paul Revere rode to say the British were coming. I will ride to say, ‘The People are coming!’”
After his speech, Wallace took questions from the same reporters he had denounced during his speech. Like Trump, Wallace was not afraid of the press. Like Trump, Wallace used the press.
I asked Wallace what his strategy was.
“My strategy? I put down the hay where the goats can get it!” he said, and then he roared with laughter.
Trump is no different in that he does not have to sell his policies. His followers are more than ready for someone who will feed their fears and promise them magic, like walls that will reach to the sky and be paid for by the same foreigners who want American jobs.
Trump does not need to build a coalition. The coalition is already out there festering, hating government, believing in conspiracies, waiting for someone to focus their anger.
On Tuesday, Ted Cruz woke up and decided to tell people that Trump was a really, really bad guy.
Trump is a “pathological liar” who is “utterly amoral” and does not know right from wrong, Cruz said. Trump has had “venereal diseases” as a result of his “serial philandering,” of which he is proud.
Trump is “terrified of strong women,” Cruz said.
And here is the really bad one: “He is not going to build a wall.”
No wall? What the heck are we going to spray paint?
Why did Cruz wait so long to roll out Operation Desperation? This is anybody’s guess. On April 26, after Trump swept Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, Stephen Colbert summed it up with deadly accuracy: “Trump’s candidacy just got five states less funny.”
And Hillary Clinton is not going to dawdle. Though technically, she still has to beat Bernie Sanders, she is already ready for Donald Trump. She is fired up and ready to go.
“We’ve seen the rhetoric; we’ve seen the insults,” she said Tuesday. “We’re going to have a tough campaign against a candidate who will say or do anything.”
The trouble with attacks against Trump, however, is that they usually lack the snap and verve of his own attacks.
Lyin’ Ted. Little Marco. Low-energy Jeb. Crooked Hillary.
As childish as they are, they stick in the mind.
“Ted Cruz does not have the temperament to be president of the United States,” Trump said on Tuesday.
But what kind of temperament does the presidency require except a commitment to repeat the same slander day after day. “What I believed on Monday, I will still believe on Wednesday,” the candidate must say. “No matter what I believed on Tuesday.”
And when media outlets started writing a few weeks ago that Trump was dialing down his attacks to appear more presidential, Trump reacted with anger.
“I’m not changing; I went to the best schools; I’m, like, a very smart person,” he said. “I don’t want to change my personality. It got me here. I consider myself the presumptive nominee. As far as I’m concerned, it’s over.”
And as for the rest of the campaign? The remaining primaries, the conventions, the presidential debates and all those speeches?
No worries. It’s easy when you have a plan, and Donald Trump has a plan: He is just going to keep putting down the hay where the goats can get it.
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
Donald Trump is living his word. His word often changes. But you can’t blame him for that. At the time he is giving his word, he means it.
Which is a politician’s definition of honesty.

Times change; circumstances change; life changes. And you can be a little baby (or news columnist) and whine about it, or you can be a politician and buckle down and do what people expect you to do, which is very little.
Paul Manafort, often described as the “ultimate D.C. insider” when he is not being described as a “veteran Washington fixer,” has been put in charge of the Trump campaign. The campaign recognized that Washington insiders have grown worried that Trump has forgotten just what role he is playing.
Trump started out as an anti-insider and an anti-fixer, and so you can see why insider fixers have grown concerned.
Trump seems to have been carried away by the crowds who scream themselves silly when he attacks Washington and the way politics is conducted in this country.
The people who actually conduct the politics of Washington want to make sure Trump has not forgotten his most important role: to make sure nothing actually changes.
So Manafort went to Florida the other day to assure members of the Republican National Committee — the ultimate insiders and fixers — that they need not worry.
“That’s what’s important for you to understand,” Manafort told the group about Trump. “That he gets it, and that the part he’s been playing is evolving.”
In other words, when Trump says he hates insiders and fixers, that’s just evolution. He doesn’t really hate them at all. It just depends on where he happens to be sitting.
Really.
“When he’s sitting in a room, he’s talking business,” Manafort told the group, a tape recording of which was obtained by NBC News.
“[When] he’s talking politics in a private room, it’s a different persona,” Manafort continued. “When he’s out on the stage, when he’s talking about the kinds of things he’s talking about on the stump, he’s projecting an image that’s for that purpose.”
“He [Trump] gets it,” Manafort said.
Trump may get it, but I am confused as all get-out. When Trump is in a room, that’s business. When he’s talking politics in a private room, that’s presumably politics. And when he’s on the stage and on the stump, don’t worry about it, because he knows he is just talking to yahoos.
Or something.
Trump’s negatives, which are very high, will come down once Trump is no longer negative in his speeches, Manafort said. Hillary Clinton’s negatives, on the other hand, will not come down, because, according to one news account, they are “baked in.”
“The negatives will come down, the image is going to change, but Clinton is still going to be ‘Crooked Hillary,’ and that’s what you’re going to be seeing a lot more of,” Manafort promised the group.
Let us assume at this point that the audience members burst into wheezy cheers for this act of patriotism.
“He’s actually living his word, and that’s what the base that we are attracting to the Trump campaign is looking for,” Manafort said. “They’re looking for honesty, and they’re looking for consistency, and they’re looking for someone who does exactly what they say.”
But is this what Trump is really providing? Is it honesty and consistency?
And could any reasonably sane person expect Trump to do “exactly” what he says?
Let’s examine Trump’s most concrete (no pun intended) promise: that he will build an impenetrable wall on our border with Mexico.
I am willing to believe that Trump will try to build some kind of wall along some stretch of our border with Mexico and then throw up his hands in frustration and blame Congress or the courts or Mexico or Democrats or some other evil forces that will block him.
After all, this huge wall will require the cooperation of Congress, and environmentalists and immigration rights groups and all sorts of lawyers and agencies, and it will have to lead eventually to a favorable ruling by the Supreme Court.
How likely is that? And don’t forget that Trump promises he will somehow get Mexico to pay for it.
This is going to take more than Manafort has promised. This is going to take more than a “persona.”
This is going to take a magician.
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
The media often act like we have a sacred duty to exaggerate. We believe that if something is worth doing, it is worth overdoing.
Thus, in just a few short months, we have gone from saying it is impossible for Donald Trump to win the Republican nomination to saying it is inevitable that Donald Trump will win the Republican nomination.

Because of this, I have decided to dispense with the remaining primaries and caucuses, stories about superdelegates, brokered conventions and the usual yada-yada and get right down to it:
Who will Trump choose as his running mate?
Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, who has one of the longest titles in politics — professor of the Practice of Public Policy Communication, Sol Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California — put her finger right on it.
“The Donald’s first choice is The Donald,” she said.
But there are constitutional problems with that, and, besides, vice presidents are convenient to have around in case you need someone to attend a funeral.
So I contacted 22 people, which is 22 people more than I usually contact for a column, to ask them their predictions for Trump’s running mate.
Some did not want to play.
“Anyone who would run with Trump is too vile for me to think about,” said Garry Wills, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian and author of more than 40 books.
Others were downright apocalyptic.
“My first job was with Jesse Helms,” said Juleanna Glover, presenting her conservative credentials. “I lived with Phyllis Schlafly. I worked for Dan Quayle, George W. Bush, Bill Kristol, Steve Forbes, Rudy Giuliani, Dick Cheney and spent half my career with John Ashcroft.”
And her views on Trump?
“He is inherently dangerous to the national interest,” she said. “Trump as the nominee is destructive, and anyone who would seriously consider being his vice president is an accomplice to that destruction.”
Tom Rath, on the other hand, was willing to provide a list. Rath is one of the most respected political operatives in the Republican Party and has served as a senior national adviser to the presidential campaigns of Howard Baker, Robert Dole, Lamar Alexander, George W. Bush, Mitt Romney and John Kasich.
“Far be it from me to give Trump advice,” he said and then listed 13 suggestions “in no particular order.” I have included some, with descriptions in case not every name rings a bell:
Jeff Immelt: chairman and CEO of General Electric.
John Thune: Republican senator from South Dakota.
Jeb Bush: Oh, c’mon, you didn’t forget that fast.
Joe Scarborough with or without Mika Brzezinski: Two politically influential MSNBC superstars who could switch off every other month.
Charlie Baker: Republican governor of Massachusetts.
Roger Goodell: commissioner of the National Football League.
Tim Scott: Republican senator from South Carolina, and the only African-American in U.S. history ever to be elected to both the House and Senate.
Oprah Winfrey: Born into poverty in Mississippi, she became a talk show host, actress, producer, author and multibillionaire philanthropist. She gave me an interview when she came to Chicago to start a TV talk show in 1984. At the time, I was probably better known in Chicago than she was. That lasted about five minutes.
In June 2015, Trump himself told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos that he wanted Oprah as his running mate. “I think we’d win easily, actually,” he said. “I like Oprah. I mean, is that supposed to be a bad thing? I don’t think so.”
But could Oprah, a big backer of Barack Obama, be selected by the Republican National Convention? “Over the years, I have voted for as many Republicans as I have Democrats,” Oprah said in December 2007 when she endorsed Obama. “This isn’t about partisanship for me. This is very, very personal.”
When Obama spoke to the crowd, he asked: “You want Oprah as vice president?”
The crowd roared. “That would be a demotion, you understand that?” Obama said.
While it might be close, I am guessing the delegates to the Republic convention would go along with Oprah as vice president if only in the hope that she would give each of them a Pontiac.
Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, said: “I assume Trump would double down on his positioning, not pick anyone with a career in elected politics — so, someone with significant military experience seems like one possibility.”
Democratic crisis communications expert Chris Lehane said: “He shouldn’t/wouldn’t look for balance as that would undermine the brand.
“First, military background. If Curtis LeMay were available, he would be perfect. (Inconveniently, LeMay died in 1990.)
“Second, the anti-pol. Gov. Paul LePage of Maine is a poor man’s Trump.
"Third, sports figure. Peyton Manning [quarterback of the Denver Broncos] may be retiring.”
While most analysts are careful to hedge their bets just in case they turn out to be wrong, Charlie Cook is not most analysts. “I don’t believe that Trump will ultimately be the Republican nominee,” he said.
“Trump’s chances of winning a general election are so small that even if he did, the odds of his administration being a disaster are huge. So for a young and ambitious Republican, hitching your wagon to his horse could well be a career ender.”
Cook said, “A lot of top-tier names and talent are off the table.”
”I question why any major figure or rising star in the party would want to become joined at the hip with Donald Trump,” Cook said. “That means he is likely to get a second- or third-tier person.”
Which makes my prediction perfect: She has run for the job before, she knows how to debate and give a good convention speech and she has even invented her own language.
When she endorsed Trump on Jan. 20 at Iowa State University, she said: “Trump’s candidacy, it has exposed not just that tragic the ramifications of that betrayal of the transformation of our country, but too, he has exposed the complicity on both sides of the aisle that has enabled it, OK?”
OK. And that’s right, my guess is that Trump will select Sarah Palin as his running mate.
Why? Because she makes Trump sound like a genius.
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
Nikki Haley should be deported, a provocative headline from the Wall Street Journal editorial board reads in an article published Wednesday evening.
But that headline, which mirrors a widely denounced tweet by Ann Coulter, is misleading: The editorial is actually a rousing defense of the South Carolina governor and newfound Republican lightning rod.

Haley, who delivered the GOP response to President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address on Tuesday, is an “articulate conservative” who has won two gubernatorial elections in the state, the editorial board writes. "It's a sign of the GOP’s distemper that some conservatives denounced her because she didn’t denounce legal immigration.”
A potential vice president pick, Haley is the daughter of Indian immigrants and the first female and first minority governor of South Carolina. “I am the proud daughter of Indian immigrants who reminded my brothers, my sister and me every day how blessed we were to live in this country,” she said in Tuesday night's response.
The Journal notes that Coulter tweeted that Republican poll leader Donald Trump should deport Haley, and Trump later called Haley “very weak on immigration.”
“Are we talking about the same Nikki Haley?” the editorial board writes. “The woman who says ‘illegal immigration is not welcome in South Carolina’? Who signed a law toughening the state’s illegal immigration reform act, which requires employers to verify the immigration status of new hires? Who has fought President Obama’s bid to resettle unvetted Syrian refugees? And whose state has joined 16 others in a lawsuit against Mr. Obama for what they say is his unconstitutional executive order on illegal immigration?”
The newspaper, long a vocal advocate of immigration reform, writes that Haley has sought to differentiate between a functioning, legal immigration system that Republicans want and the unlawful, broken, arbitrary system that exists now under the Obama administration.
“The attacks on Ms. Haley show that many on the right these days oppose any immigrants, even those who arrive legally,” they conclude. “They also want to make opposition to immigration a GOP litmus test. A party that rejects Nikki Haley as a spokeswoman is one that doesn’t really want to build a governing majority.”
Coulter told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt on Wednesday that her tweet was "a joke."
The Age of Bubba has been swept into the dustbin of history by the ugly realities of the Cosby Era, where turning a blind eye to powerful politicians, perverted entertainers and predatory priests sexually abusing subordinates is no longer an option.
But feigning ignorance was standard operating procedure in all those institutions during the time the Clintons ran the White House. Throughout the 1990s, it was common knowledge among the White House insiders that the Clinton machine regularly shamed women who had allegedly been sexually mistreated by the president by either accusing the accusers of being money-grubbing trailer trash or sexually-charged sluts. It may be hard for younger Americans to fathom in these days after watching sex scandals tear apart the Catholic Church, Penn State, the U.S. military and college campuses, that during the Clinton years, the president's chief spokesman could successfully ward off charges of sexual abuse against his boss by sneering that if you "drag a hundred dollar bill through a trailer park, you never know what you will find."

As the pages of the New York Times signaled this weekend, those days are done. Americans have an increased sensitivity to the epidemic of sexual assault and new political realities of the 2016 campaign are presenting Secretary Clinton a series of vexing challenges.
The Times has already earned the Clinton camp's wrath in Brooklyn by doggedly investigating and reporting on Mrs. Clinton's questionable use of a personal email account for State Department business. But this weekend, the Times' editorial page hit closer to home as it dug into President and Mrs. Clinton's mistreatment of women during Bill Clinton's rise to power.
While the editorial staff noted that Mr. Clinton's sexual misdeeds were irrelevant to the campaign, the editorial board suggested that Secretary Clinton should be held to account for her actions in hiding her husband's questionable behavior for her own political benefit.
"For decades Mrs. Clinton has helped protect her husband’s political career, and hers, from the taint of his sexual misbehavior, as evidenced by the Clinton team’s attacks on the character of women linked to Mr. Clinton," the Times wrote. "When Mr. Clinton ran for president in 1992, Mrs. Clinton appeared on television beside him to assert that allegations involving Gennifer Flowers were false. In 1998, he admitted to that affair under oath. After the Monica Lewinsky affair emerged, some White House aides attempted to portray Ms. Lewinsky as the seducer."
Maureen Dowd's op-ed the next day cut even deeper. The Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist blasted the former first lady's "hypocrisy in running as a feminist icon when she was part of political operations that smeared women who told the truth about Bill's transgressions."
Dowd publicly shamed Hillary for her own public shaming of Monica Lewinsky as a "narcissistic loony toon" and a "troubled young person" when the 50-something president preyed on his 22-year-old intern. The Democratic front-runner, she concluded, would be damaged by a "retrospective of the Clinton's cynical campaigns against bimbo eruptions" and observed that being part of a process to destroy the character of young women who came forward as sexual abused victims "will not play well in a politically correct society sensitized by epidemics of rape in colleges and the military and by the Cosby effect."
Much has, in fact, changed in the decades since NBC's Dateline interviewed women like Juanita Broaddrick, who openly wept as she recounted her own sexually violent encounter with Bill Clinton. Beyond Cosby, the Catholic Church, and Penn State, Americans younger than 38 who never saw Bill Clinton's name on a ballot have grown up in a culture so much more sensitized to the human wreckage caused by powerful men using their positions of power to sexually abuse others. The same Sunday Times that ran Dowd's blistering column also carried Sunday Styles cover story on the new thorny issues of sexual consent and rape on college campuses.
The Times Style Section wrote that "the statistics by this point are familiar: More than ones in five college women will become victims of sexual assault, most of them by somebody they know, with very few of them coming forward to report the crime."
Those chilling statistics parallel the facts Mrs. Broaddrick tearfully told NBC News of her encounter with Bill Clinton when he was still governor of Arkansas.
Myers: “Is there any way at all that Bill Clinton could have thought that this was consensual?”
Broaddrick: “No. Not with what I told him, and with how I tried to push him away. It was not consensual.”
Myers: “You’re saying that Bill Clinton sexually assaulted you, that he raped you.”
Broaddrick: “Yes.”
Myers: “And there is no doubt in your mind that that’s what happened?”
Broaddrick: “No doubt whatsoever.”
Beyond the question of consent, Broaddrick, like the vast majority of college students the Times wrote of did not report the alleged rape to the police despite the fact Broaddrick told NBC News she was injured both internally and externally. She would also tell Myers that several intimidating encounters with Hillary Clinton following the alleged rape left her in fear for her physical safety.
More Dowd:
"Bill hid behind the skirts of feminists — including his wife and esteemed women in his cabinet when he got caught. And feminists, eager to protect his progressive agenda on women, allowed the women swirling around Bill to become collateral damage, torched as trailer trash or erotomaniacs."
Beyond increased sensitivity to sexual abuse, Mrs. Clinton now faces another reality her husband did not during his personal battles in the 1990s. Back then, the political collapse of Bill Clinton would have accrued to the almost exclusive benefit of Newt Gingrich's morally preening, hypocritical right-wing majority.
If 22-year-old women were to be sexually preyed upon by a president more than twice their age and then have their character destroyed by Team Clinton when those deeds became public, well, feminists like Betty Friedan were just fine with that so long as they continued to hold a political advantage in the White House. Friedan would join in attacking the young woman facing global humiliation for Clinton's predatory behavior by blasting her as nothing more than "a little twerp."
If a woman was sexually molested in the Oval Office the same day her husband committed suicide, Gloria Steinem was just fine with Hillary Clinton's "Sluts & Nuts" team going into overdrive to destroy the aggrieved women's reputations in the press. And what if, like Broaddrick, this woman reported feeling physically threatened after one Clinton's alleged sexual abuse episodes? Well, as Bill Cosby might say, sh*t happens.
And it did happen often around Bill and Hillary Clinton first in Arkansas and then at the White House. But two decades later, the Times' coverage this weekend signals that the free pass older feminists and left-leaning editorial boards gave Bill Clinton 20 years ago will not be extended to Mrs. Clinton, especially while she is preening on about the importance of sexual assault survivors having "the right to be heard and the right to be believed."
As the New York Times editorial board wrote this weekend, Hillary Clinton may have to answer for her actions after these episodes. Why the change? Because the alternative to a Clinton in 2016 is not a hypocritical right-wing religious zealot from the most frightening wing of the GOP, but is instead a popular progressive senator from Vermont named Bernie Sanders.
What a relief that must be for liberals in the Age of Cosby. Like priests now in Francis' Catholic Church, they can speak freely about the plight of sexual abuse victims without fearing the loss of their own power.
All a politician really has is words. They are his only weapon, his only sword, his only shield.
Even should he rise to the presidency and command actual troops, he will find himself still needing words to justify to the nation why he is putting American lives at risk.

And if our nation itself is attacked, the words our president speaks are the words the nation turns to for comfort and solace. And for the assurance that punishment will be meted out and vengeance unleashed against the evildoers.
In December 1941, Franklin Roosevelt called the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor “a date which will live in infamy.”
Those worlds still live in history. Less recollected, but equally important, were the words that followed. “Always will we remember the character of the onslaught against us,” Roosevelt said. “I assert that we will not only defend ourselves to the uttermost but will make very certain that this form of treachery shall never endanger us again.”
When Harry Truman authorized dropping two atomic bombs on Japan in 1945, some American church leaders were horrified and asked him to show mercy in the future.
Truman was unmoved. “When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast,” Truman said.
He had never forgotten Roosevelt’s words following that day of “infamy,” and Truman wanted the Japanese and the rest of the world to know it.
Words matter. Words uttered today shape the actions we take in the future.
American and European citizens go to the Mideast, get “radicalized” and return as killers, and sometimes as suicide bombers. What words could persuade them to do that?
What words, what cause, could motivate a young mother to put her 6-month-old baby in the hands of the child’s grandmother and then put on black tactical gear, pick up an assault rifle and, with her husband, massacre 14 people in San Bernardino, California?
What words can a president then use to address the nation about this slaughter? What can he say?
“Our success won’t depend on tough talk, or abandoning our values, or giving in to fear,” President Barack Obama said Sunday night from behind a lectern in the Oval Office. “That’s what groups like ISIL are hoping for. Instead, we will prevail by being strong and smart, resilient and relentless, and by drawing upon every aspect of American power.”
Those words cannot calm every fear or provide easy answers. But they resonate: “Strong and smart, resilient and relentless.”
The Republican opposition had its own answers.
When Obama said that people on the no-fly list should be unable to buy firearms, Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz reacted by saying that the president should not be “attempting to take away the constitutional liberties of millions of innocent Americans.”
John Kasich wants boots on the ground. “Without taking the fight to ISIS on the ground, ISIS won’t be defeated,” he said. “We must stop delaying and do it.”
Marco Rubio said terrorism is part of God’s plan. “What we may interpret as bad, and most certainly is in the case of Paris or 9/11, even that is part of a broader plan for the universe and for our lives that we are just not going to know the answer to. God’s ways are not our ways.”
Donald Trump live-tweeted during the speech with deep thoughts like “Wish Obama would say ISIS, like almost everyone else, rather than ISIL” and “We need a new President — FAST!”
Rand Paul said: “We should be advocating for more concealed carry ability for law-abiding Americans.” (One killer in San Bernardino had been a law-abiding American — until he started shredding people with an easily obtained assault weapon.)
Ben Carson called the killings a “hate crime.” Asked to explain, Carson said: “Well, it’s hard to imagine that you would shoot a bunch of people and not hate them, right? You don’t do that to people you love.”
But Cruz, who passes for an intellectual in the Republican field, used his words thoughtfully. “If I am elected president,” he said, “I will direct the Department of Defense to destroy ISIS.”
Gosh, I wish I had thought of that.
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
You probably don’t read newspaper editorials, and I don’t blame you. Over the decades, many have become weak and flaccid little things.
They suffer from too little sound and fury, and yet they still manage to signify nothing,

Until now. If you have been skipping newspaper editorials recently, you have been missing something. (Politico does not have editorials. Or, if you listen to the extreme right and extreme left, everything in Politico is an editorial.)
Take last week’s editorial in The Washington Post, in which the “growing ugliness” of Donald Trump’s campaign was said to pose a challenge for every American.
“We have seen the likes of him before, in the United States and elsewhere: narcissistic bullies who rise to prominence by spreading lies, appealing to fears and stoking hatred,” the paper said. “Such people are dangerous.”
Whoa, Nellie! Where did that come from? Trump is a dangerous and narcissistic bully who spreads lies and stokes hatred?
Sure, it’s the truth. But that doesn’t mean we’re used to seeing it on an editorial page.
Yet history may someday note that Donald Trump has almost single-handedly revived the art of two-fisted newspaper editorial writing. Just because he is such a scoundrel and a worm.
Most newspaper editorials are unsigned, as if they were dropped from heaven directly onto the printing presses. So we don’t know who, on Nov. 23 in The Washington Post, wrote that at first the paper was inclined to ignore Trump.
“He was a buffoon, a disseminator of ludicrous rumors about President Obama’s birthplace,” the newspaper said. “He lacked the qualifications, experience or knowledge to be president. He was running to promote his brand.”
But now the Post had changed its mind: “His candidacy has tugged the debate toward divisiveness as his bigotry has drawn cheers and many of his rivals have strove to mimic him.”
(You knew it was an editorial because it used a phrase like “have strove,” something no mere mortal would say. As in: “Jim, have you strove to pick up the dry cleaning today?”)
The editorial then accused Trump of reinforcing “fears and prejudices” as well as “praising supporters for beating a protestor, crudely denigrating anyone who challenges him and penning reporters into designated zones so that they cannot speak with his followers.”
Personally, I have met few reporters who could not use a good penning or two. But, more significantly, the editorial ended by attacking those other Republican candidates who refuse to attack Trump. “Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) is probably the most egregious of these second-rate flatterers, but he’s far from alone,” the paper said.
And who can listen to the oleaginous Cruz (see, I know some uncommon words, too) and not agree?
All of which was good, strong stuff. But there was more to come. The very next day, The New York Times dropped a bomb on Trump. Here is the first sentence:
“America has just lived through another presidential campaign week dominated by Donald Trump’s racist lies.”
Yikes! Racist lies? Why doesn’t the newspaper tell us how it really feels? And who, by the way, would know Trump better than his hometown newspaper?
“If it’s a lie too vile to utter aloud,” the paper wrote, “count on Mr. Trump to say it, often.”
Did I say it was like a bomb going off? It was like Krakatoa erupting. And burying Trump in lava.
The Times, as did the Post, listed specific examples of Trump’s statements and provided plenty of online links so that readers could judge Trump’s vileness for themselves.
But the Times had made up its mind: Trump is a “demagogue” who gets some of his phony statistics from a “white supremacist group.”
Then the paper reprinted a recent lengthy quotation by Trump, comparing it to quotations by character assassin Joseph McCarthy in 1950 and racist George Wallace in 1963.
McCarthy. Wallace. Trump. Quite a trio of shame.
“His right to spew nonsense is protected by the Constitution,” the Times wrote, “but the public doesn’t need to swallow it.”
Swallow Trump’s spew? Eww.
At least one Republican candidate has awakened and rubbed some of the cobwebs from his eyes when it comes to Trump. Chris Christie said Monday that Trump’s recent imitation of a disabled reporter was wrong.
“You shouldn’t be making fun of people with disabilities. It’s just not worthy of someone running for president of the United States,” Christie said.
Christie also disputed Trump’s claim that thousands of New Jersey Muslims publicly danced in celebration when the Twin Towers fell on 9/11.
When Christie’s rebuke was repeated to Trump, Trump glowered.
“He must be careful with what he says,” Trump said in a menacing tone.
Nah, Donald, I don’t think so. I think finally you have reached the point where you better be careful with what you say.
The mass of voters have seen your act and, I believe, are sick of it, no matter what the polls show. And the sooner you exit the stage, the less loathsome our politics will be.
Roger Simon is Politico’s chief political columnist.
Most of the refugees from Syria do not look like us. They do not look Western. They look different.
And we live in a world today where different can be dangerous.

On Thursday, two bombs killed 43 people in Beirut. It got scant attention compared with the bombs that killed at least 129 people in Paris the next day. One reason had nothing to do with numbers.
Beirut is part of the Mideast and Paris is part of the West, and we care more about the killing of Westerners.
We don’t like to say this.
Remember the picture of that little boy whose dead body washed ashore in Turkey? It really tugged at your heart.
His name was Aylan Kurdi, and he was 3 years old. He drowned and washed onto the beach like a piece of debris.
His brother Galip, 5, also drowned, as did their mother, Rehan. They were Kurdish refugees from Syria.
Part of the reason our reaction to little Aylan was so strong is that he looked so Western. He was dressed in Western-style sports clothing: a red top, blue pants and sneakers with Velcro straps. You could just imagine how much he loved strapping on those shoes every morning!
The boys were trying to get to Canada but probably would have been delighted to make it to the United States. Where at least 31 of our states would not be delighted with them.
More than half our country wants to ban Syrian refugees, though some states are willing to take Christian ones.
Why? Because Christians are more like us than Muslims, even though we are supposed to be a nation where all religions are treated equally.
(Muslim terrorists do kill Westerners. But we are supposed to be better than the terrorists. That’s how people are supposed to be able to tell us apart.)
Marco Rubio, who brags in every speech about how his father fled Cuba, once was considered a champion of immigrants. But not any more.
“You can have a thousand people come in and 999 of them are just poor people fleeing oppression and violence,” Rubio said, “but one of them is an ISIS fighter. If that’s the case, you have a problem.”
“There’s no way to vet that out,” he continued. “There’s no background check system in the world that allows us to find that out because who do you call in Syria to background check them?”
Ted Cruz was born in Canada of a Cuban father and — luckily for Cruz’s presidential hopes — a mother from Delaware. Cruz, too, gets all choked up when he talks about his father fleeing Fidel Castro’s tyranny.
But what about those fleeing tyranny today? Well, according to Cruz, it depends on their religion. No Muslim refugees should be allowed in America today, only Christian ones. Because, says Cruz, “there is no meaningful risk of Christians committing acts of terror.”
All this reminds me of the bitter chant from the 1960s: “If you’re white, all right. If you’re black, get back.” Today, it’s religion instead of race. But it’s the same old hatreds.
Barack Obama’s reaction to this has been shame and disgust.
As he said Monday: “When I hear folks say that, well, maybe we should just admit the Christians but not the Muslims, when I hear political leaders suggesting that there would be a religious test for which person who’s fleeing from a war-torn country is admitted, when some of those folks themselves come from families who benefited from protection when they were fleeing political persecution, that’s shameful. That’s not American, that’s not who we are.”
But it is who we may become if one of these anti-immigrant jokers is elected president.
Take Chris Christie. The New Jersey governor talked to conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt on Monday, and Hewitt asked about those poor tiny refugee kids. Couldn’t we let them in?
“What if they were orphans under the age of 5?” Hewitt asked.
“You know, Hugh, we can come up with 18 different scenarios,” Christie said. “The fact is that we need appropriate vetting, and I don’t think orphans under 5 are being, you know, should be admitted into the United States at this point. … We need to put the safety and security of the American people first.”
On a whim, I decided to check up on the religion of those Americans who had fought and died to protect the safety and security of American citizens and are now buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
There are at least 61 different symbols on the graves at Arlington that recognize numerous branches of Christianity, plus other religions including Judaism, Islam, Sikhism, Native American religions, as well as atheists, secular humanists and Wiccans.
So non-Christians are free to give their lives for America. We just don’t want any more of them here. Not even toddlers.
Wizened rich guy Rupert Murdoch, who became an American citizen at age 54 so that he could own TV stations here, tweeted this Monday night:
“Obama facing enormous opposition in accepting refugees. Maybe make special exception for proven Christians.”
Proven Christians? We are raising the bar? Simply saying you are a Christian will no longer be enough. You will have to prove you are a Christian.
Murdoch, by the way, claims he is a Christian. And in America we don’t make anybody submit baptismal forms or church records to prove it like they did, say, in Nazi Germany.
But we could test people. For example, who said the following?
“But whoever has this world’s goods, and sees his brother in need, and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him?”
Yep, you got it. That was Jesus of Nazareth. A proven Christian.
But from the Mideast. And older than a toddler. So we might not let him into America today. Even if he wanted to come.
Roger Simon is POLITICO's chief political columnist.
Ben Carson has said he does not want a Muslim in the White House because Muslims cannot be trusted. They do not fit “within the realm of America” and Islam is not “consistent with the Constitution,” Carson said.
Carson was surprised when this caused a fuss.

His assertions were bigoted and ignorant, but bigoted and ignorant have been playing well in the Republican Party this year.
Donald Trump insults Mexicans, and he quadruples his standing in the polls. He insults POWs and women, and he still sits atop the polls.
“I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct,” Trump sneers. “I don’t, frankly, have time for total political correctness.”
Bigotry, hatred, bullying? Hey, they are your problem, buddy, not his.
So Carson sees an opportunity. Politically incorrect campaigning may be a good thing. You can stir the pot without getting burned.
Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, is, frankly, not the brightest bulb in the chandelier. At best, he comes across as a fatherly doctor-type, a nonpolitician, an outsider who presents a fresh perspective.
At worst, he is kind of a dunderhead. He does not believe in evolution; he thinks that climate change is “irrelevant” and says Obamacare is “the worst thing that has happened in this nation since slavery.”
Also, Carson has a shaky understanding of the U.S. Constitution. He believes, for instance, it is perfectly OK to impose a religious test on candidates for president to determine if their religion is consistent with “our,” which is to say, his, principles.
As he told Chuck Todd on “Meet the Press” on Sunday, “I would not advocate that we put a Muslim in charge of this nation. I absolutely would not agree with that.”
Why not?
Because Islam does not fit “within the realm of America” and it is not “consistent with the Constitution.”
Yet the Constitution expressly forbids religious tests. Article VI, paragraph 3 of the Constitution states that “no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.”
Yet Carson told The Hill on Sunday that presidents should be “sworn in on a stack of Bibles, not a Koran.”
“We are a different kind of nation,” Carson says. “Part of why we rose so quickly is because we wouldn’t allow our values or principles to be supplanted because we were going to be politically correct.”
What on earth is that supposed to mean? Is Carson saying we rose quickly as a nation because we slaughtered Native Americans and stole their land instead of being politically correct?
Carson couldn’t be saying that our Founding Fathers ignored “political correctness” when it came to religious liberty. In fact, they went out of their way to be politically correct on that subject. (It was slavery that they punted on.)
The Founders easily could have put a sentence in the Constitution stating that only Christians could become president. Just about everybody in the former 13 colonies was a Christian of one variety or another.
But the framers of the Constitution did the opposite, following the example of Thomas Jefferson’s Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, which states that no man shall “suffer on account of his religious opinions or belief.”
Jefferson wrote that the act embraced “within the mantle of its protection, the Jew, the Gentile, the Christian and the Mahometan [Muslim], the Hindoo and Infidel of every denomination.”
On Tuesday, Carson tried to calm things by saying he had been misunderstood. Muslims, Carson said, would be acceptable as president just as long as “they embrace American culture … and are willing to place that above their religious beliefs.”
But how will they do that? Swear an oath written in blood? Go on Colbert, Fallon and Kimmel and invoke the ultimate “cross my heart and hope to die, stick a needle in my eye” vow?
In any case, such an oath — specifically rejected by the Constitution — still would go only so far in mollifying Carson. The candidate could become president. But he or she would still go to hell.
Carson said moderate Muslim candidates who denounced radical Islam to meet his standards “will be considered infidels and heretics, but at least then I will be quite willing to support them.”
Infidels? Heretics? These are the concepts Carson now wants to introduce into the political conversation? It almost makes one long for Donald Trump.
Earlier this year, Carson was invited to speak to the Southern Baptist Convention Pastors’ Conference in Columbus, Ohio. He withdrew, however, after some objected to the fact he is a Seventh-day Adventist.
As Talking Points Memo reported, Texas pastor Bart Barber wrote in a blog post: “Southern Baptists have classified Seventh-Day Adventists not as a church but as a sect. We have stopped short of anathematizing them, but we have identified aspects of their beliefs that are sub-Christian and harmful.”
Anathematizing? Sub-Christian? We are going to add this to the conversation, too?
Oh, my. It seems that Ben Carson’s climb to the presidency has turned into a slippery slope.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
There was a stage and on it there was Donald Trump. But Trump didn’t dominate the stage. And that may have been a first.
He was once again debating a chorus line of Republican presidential candidates, but there was a big difference Wednesday night: Trump didn’t have a Trump audience in his pocket and on his side.

He was at the Ronald Reagan Library in Simi Valley, California, an upscale bedroom suburb of Los Angeles, where the median household income is nearly $88,000, and where audiences are not given to yee-haws.
While Trump brought out his usual lines and his array of smirks, his performance often met with near silence.
That was something new for him. And it made him lose what has bolstered him in the campaign thus far: his bluster.
Even his bullying fell flat. “Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage,” Trump said at the debate’s beginning, apropos of absolutely nothing. “He’s No. 11; he’s got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there’s far too many people anyway.”
Which gave Paul the chance to verbalize what many in the party feel — regardless of what the polls show. “I think really there’s a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr. Trump, but I am worried,” Paul said. “I’m very concerned about him.”
Then Paul took his real shot: “His visceral response is to attack people on their appearance — short, tall, fat, ugly — my goodness, that happened in junior high. Are we not way above that?”
The audience broke into applause. But Trump made the mistake of going for the snark anyway. “I never attacked him on his looks —— and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there!” Trump said, as if he were a Borscht Belt comic silencing a heckler.
The audience didn’t go for it much, and it was not a good road for Trump to head down, anyway. Trump had recently said to Rolling Stone magazine about Carly Fiorina: “Look at that face. Would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?”
Seeking to repair the damage, perhaps, Trump had said early in the debate, “I will take care of women! I respect women! I will take care of women!”
Fiorina, however, did not feel the need to be cared for or respected by Donald Trump. “I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,” she said.
This was received with prolonged applause and shouts of approval. Trump sheepishly responded: “I think she’s got a beautiful face. And I think she’s a beautiful woman.”
Which is to say he still doesn’t get it.
Fiorina was on the stage with The Donald and nine other candidates in Simi Valley because of her surprisingly strong performance in the first Republican debate in Cleveland last month.
And she surprised again Wednesday with the most emotional response of the debate. It concerned Republican plans to defund Planned Parenthood after a controversial undercover tape was released of a Planned Parenthood official allegedly discussing the sale of fetal tissue.
“As regards Planned Parenthood, anyone who has watched this videotape, I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes!” Fiorina said, her voice thickening with emotion. “Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain! This is about the character of our nation!”
The audience thundered its approval, and Fiorina demonstrated she could mix it up with the big boys on stage not just on matters of big business — her specialty — but also on social issues.
After the lengthy debate, when a CNN reporter mentioned to Trump that many people thought Fiorina had done well, Trump looked genuinely surprised.
“Oh, really?” he said and shrugged. “I think she’s a very nice person.”
But then he added, “They’re saying very nice things about me! People just came over to me and said, ‘Wow, you were great!’ ”
As if that were not the kind of thing that people always tell a candidate right after a performance.
But what, Trump was asked, had he actually learned from the debate?
Trump pondered the question. “I learned I had no trouble standing for three hours,” he said.
Right now, Trump stands high atop the polls. But he’s going to have to learn more than that from these debates if he’s going to stay there.
Roger Simon is POLITICO's Chief Political columnist.
Ask Dr. Politics! You are fair and we are unbalanced!
Dear Dr. Politics: Donald Trump has signed a loyalty pledge and now he can’t run as in independent in 2016, right? So now we can concentrate on serious stuff like all the global figures he has never heard of.

Answer: The pledge is a joke. That some people take it seriously is a testimony to how clever a deal maker Trump really is.
First, the pledge is nonbinding. It says: “I affirm that if I do not win the 2016 Republican nomination for President of the United States I will endorse the 2016 Republican presidential nominee regardless of who it is.”
That’s pure baloney. Everyone who has ever dealt with Trump knows that the only pledge he will honor is the one that goes: “Cross my heart and hope to die, stick a needle in my eye.”
The Republican pledge has no penalties. None. Not a noogie, not a wedgie, not even a wet willy. Trump laughs at it.
Dear Dr. Politics: So why did Trump go along with the pledge?
Answer: Because the pledge forces all the other Republicans to support Trump!
Jeb Bush will be forced to go before the cameras and say, “I support Donald Trump for president even though Mr. Trump says that I have less energy than a mollusk.”
If Trump wins the nomination, the other Republican candidates will have to line up to lick his boots.
Trump has called Lindsey Graham, the senior senator from South Carolina, a “lightweight” and an “idiot.”So what happens if Trump gets the GOP nomination? Graham will be forced to say, “I support Donald Trump, which just shows how much of an idiot and lightweight I really am.”
So the pledge is joke that binds everybody except the one man who has no intention of honoring it: Donald Trump.
Ask Dr. Politics: So where did the pledge come from?
Answer: It was the brainchild of Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican Party. It’s his job to sit around party headquarters and get watered twice a week.
Dear Dr. Politics: Hillary Clinton seems like she is in real trouble. The polls show her losing New Hampshire and her lead in Iowa continues to drop. What’s happened to her campaign?
Answer: She started campaigning. Her political team was hoping to avoid this. They wanted to do the whole thing with TV ads. It is holy writ among political strategists that if you spend enough money on ads, your poll numbers will go up.
So what happens? Hillary spends more than $2.2 million on TV ads in Iowa and New Hampshire and her poll numbers go down.
Dear Dr. Politics: What does that mean?
Answer: It means the more the public sees her, the less they like her.
It might be better for Hillary if she took an extended trip to Fiji or the Azores until right before the Iowa caucus and then returned and said: “I’m back. Please vote for me and I’ll promise to go away again.”
Dear Dr. Politics: Would that work?
Answer: She may have no choice. She went on NBC with Andrea Mitchell recently to put all the questions about her private email account to rest. So what happened? Hillary drove off a cliff.
Asked about her email account, Hillary refused to apologize for it. Instead she said: “I disagree with the choice that I made. At the end of the day, I am sorry that this has been confusing to people.”
This has been confusing to people? You mean it’s our fault? I thought it was her fault.
You can imagine a guy going before a judge for sticking up a gas station and using the Hillary Defense.
“I disagree with the choice I made,” the guy tells the judge. “I am sorry that this has been confusing to people.”
“It’s not confusing,” the judge would say. “You stuck up a damn gas station! Guilty as charged!”
Dear Dr. Politics: What do you expect from the next debate?
Answer: The next Republican debate will be broadcast on CNN on Sept. 16. It will be moderated by Jake Tapper.
I am hoping that Tapper asks Trump to name the capital of Vermont and what the square root of four is. Then I hope Trump denounces these as "gotcha" questions and storms off the set.
Dear Dr. Politics: Could that really happen?
Answer: Probably not. But if it did, it would be yet another example of what presidential campaigning has become for 2016: Entertainment.
Roger Simon is POLITICO's chief political correspondent
What Jeb Bush’s presidential announcement speech lacked in grandeur Monday, it made up for in down home simplicity.
Unlike Hillary Clinton, who made her (second) announcement speech Saturday amid the grassy splendor of Roosevelt Island in New York, Bush went to a college gym in Miami.

Jeb did not need to “re-introduce” himself to America as Hillary did. While most people recognize his name, few have any idea of what he is about.
He has not helped that very much over the past few months. He has been raising large amounts of money, instead.
He has also made a few videos that range from the simplistic to the embarrassing.
“America’s best days are in front of us,” he said, concluding one video. “And we are going to lead the world.”
Wow.
But on Monday, Jeb Bush had found a new voice.
“It’s nobody’s turn,” he said, disarming his critics who say he is running on his family’s name. “It’s wide open — exactly as a contest for president should be.”
He spoke mostly in English, but also in Spanish. The student body at Miami Dade College (Kendall Campus), where Jeb spoke, is 66 percent Hispanic. And the Republican Party needs no reminding how much it needs Hispanic votes to win in 2016.
“I will campaign as I will serve” Bush said, “by going everywhere.
“I will take nothing and no one for granted. I will run with heart and I will run to win.”
Bush knew how high the stakes were for this speech. The past few weeks have been a series of bobbles for him, including four different answers about the war in Iraq in four days.
But he was extremely relaxed throughout his speech, resting his folded hands on the lectern, and peering out from his rimless glasses. He wore no jacket, just a button-down blue shirt and gray dress slacks.
His mother, wife, children, grandchildren and sister Doro were there, but George H.W. and George W. Bush stayed away, not wishing to overshadow Jeb.
They needn’t have worried. The most popular Bush owned the crowd without speaking.
The crowd erupted in numerous ovations, but none so loud as when Jeb’s mother, Barbara, was introduced and she spread her arms out to embrace the audience.
They did not seem like a dynasty. They seemed like a family.
And that is the image his campaign has been working hard on.
Unlike Hillary’s (re)announcement in which she ticked off an entire, multi-item agenda, Bush stuck to generalities, but they were sometimes partisan and some stung.
“The presidency should not be passed down from one liberal to the next,” Bush said in what turned out to be a huge applause line. “We need a president who will challenge and disrupt the whole culture in our nation’s capital. And I will be that president.”
Disrupt is a word the Bush campaign likes. They use it in the modern sense: overwhelming progress, like Amazon disrupting the book business and Uber disrupting the taxi business.
Bush lightly touched on foreign affairs, vowing support for the “brave, democratic state of Israel,” but especially emphasized Cuba and whacked President Barack Obama for any plans to visit there.
“We don’t need a glorified tourist to go to Havana in support of a failed Cuba,” Bush said. “We need an American president to go to Havana in solidarity with a brave Cuban people and I am ready to be that president.”
If he used the word “president” a lot, it’s because he grew up around an unusual number of them.
“I met a president on the day I was born, and a second when I was brought home from the hospital,” he said to the crowd’s laughter.
It was an easygoing, almost lighthearted day.
Jeb may have what the Hillary campaign fears most about him: the ability to reach out and bond with an audience.
Hillary’s husband had it, she doesn’t yet, and if she faces Jeb in a general election, she is going to need it very badly.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
If you spend enough time poking its practitioners, as I for my sins do, it soon becomes obvious that British politics is still in a state of mourning after the death of ideology. As I never tire of suggesting to my American friends, the passing of socialism, the grand ideological casualty of the 20th century, had opposite effects in America and Britain. In America, it removed the very thing — a commitment to some form of social justice — that united the two main political parties, and left them deeply polarised. In Britain, it removed the very thing that separated the two main political parties, and left them united in the center ground. As a result, British politics has — until recently — become sequential rather than adversarial, with similar teams in different uniforms taking it in turns to implement a broadly agreed agenda. This voided politics not just of ideology but, for the most part, hatred too. It substituted managerialism for morality; and it promoted competence and presumed efficacy in government to perhaps the highest quality a leader could have.
One man understood this better than any other: Tony Blair. It just so happened that he was exceptionally talented and — like his friend and ally Bill Clinton — in possession of a vital quality of political leadership: lucky timing. “For the creation of a masterwork of literature,” wrote Matthew Arnold in “The Function of Criticism at the Present Time (1864),” “two powers must concur, the power of the man and the power of the moment, and the man is not enough without the moment.” This formulation is similarly apt for most political careers of any significance, and Blair, who would later be referred to as ‘The Master’ by modernizing Tories, was a masterwork of modern democracy. The historical moment that he occupied linked a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity, following the fall of the Berlin Wall and the expansionary 1990s, with 9/11 and the aftermath, in which everything changed and terror came to the fore in international relations. Clinton had the good fortune to leave his seat of power before that latter calamity, whereas Blair’s reign spilled over into its messy embrace. As for George W. Bush, that poor rascal’s misfortune was to be the link between two cataclysmic events: 9/11, and the worst recession since the Depression. In terms of timing, Clinton was extremely lucky, Blair mostly lucky, and Bush not lucky at all.
The arc of Blair’s time at the top of British politics illuminates the great conundrum of his career — one that is, however, widely misdiagnosed. When most people turn their minds to Blair, they ask how it is that a man who won three elections, two of them with thumping majorities; who proclaimed a “new dawn in British politics;” who oversaw relentless economic growth; whose signature achievements included peace in Northern Ireland and a country much more at ease with ethnic and sexual minorities; and whose genius at communication won the hearts and minds of millions, could now come to be so reviled. Blair, once the cherub-faced savior of a country exhausted by Tory sleaze, has become guilty until proven innocent, his every move analyzed for selfish motives, his every profile in magazines intended to uncover wrongdoing and villainy.
In fact, this alleged conundrum is nothing of the sort. If there is a genuine conundrum about the role Blair occupies in British political life, and I contend there is, it has nothing to do with the above; so before coming to it, let’s deal with the relatively simple explanation for how a man can go from being so loved to so hated by so many so quickly. In something like ascending order, here are six reasons Blair has become a hated figure.
All agents of change in modern democracies end up disappointing. Witness Barack Obama, many of whose most fervent initial supporters feel betrayed. This isn’t because he failed; rather he set targets and created dreams that could never hope to succeed. Alas the habit of under-promising and over-delivering is a tricky sell in modern politics, when the news cycle and media reach can create hype around so much as a bacon sandwich.
Anyone in power for a decade, and in public life for more than two, is bound to become over-familiar.
Blair had several communication geniuses around him, including Peter Mandelson and Alastair Campbell; but in advancing a culture of controlled messages, which reached a nadir over Iraq, he left many people feeling manipulated.
Curiously for a once religious nation, Britons are wary of people who flaunt their faith in public. Blair hid his throughout his time in power, but lately it has come to the fore.
It would be hard to overstate the strength of opposition to the Iraq invasion in Britain, when a million people marched through the streets of London. That weapons of mass destruction never materialized only added to the sense of having been taken for a ride, on an epic scale. Blair’s Iraq adventurism combined the worst effects of spin and God: the message was wrong and downright deceitful; and the whole project reeked of a millenial utopianism, whose roots were the shared faith of Bush and Blair.
Never mind that he does an extraordinary amount of charity work promoting good governance in Africa or peace in the Middle East and even closer to home (be honest: have you heard of the Tony Blair Sports Foundation?). Britons don’t like their politicians becoming rich. Whereas that can be lauded in America, our stratified society holds that leaders should generally be like the common man — most of whom don’t fancy a weekend in Almaty.
This is the prism through which his every action is seen. On April 19, Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group, tweeted a picture of Blair shaking hands with a Saudi dignitary, with the following words: “Tony Blair in Riyadh. $$$.” After hundreds of retweets, it was left to Gideon Rachman, chief foreign affairs commentator of the Financial Times, to offer a tongue-in-cheek corrective: “Don’t be so cynical. I’m certain that Blair is in Riyadh to promote inter-faith dialogue.”
To my mind, a toxic brew of all these factors, particularly rich in jealousy of his wealth and anger at the Iraq misadventure, provide a ready explanation of why Blair’s popularity has evaporated. All this relates, however, to one man, one character — not to the brand of politics that he espoused. Though brand Blair is tarnished, brand Blairism need not be; and nobody has yet produced convincing evidence that the Third Way, post-ideological formula of Blairism is resented by the British public. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that economic growth combined with social justice, with a tough stance on law and order, is precisely what Britain would vote for.
And yet, bizarrely, this is the very model from which both David Cameron and Ed Miliband have chosen to flee. This seems to me the true conundrum of Blair: not that he should personally go from being loved to hated; rather that he should lay down a method for winning elections that was unprecedented in its success, and yet his students, even those who recognise him as their ‘Master’, should spurn it. Miliband has moved to the left, and Cameron to the right, leaving a vacancy in the center ground. Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, is a hugely impressive individual and very similar to Blair in outlook, being a kind of Dutch liberal. He is more metropolitan and socially liberal, and much less religious, than Blair. But the vagaries of Britain’s electoral system, and the disaster of his U-turn over not raising university tuition fees, mean he will never cut through in the same way.
There are good but ultimately regrettable reasons why Miliband and Cameron, who once called himself the ‘heir to Blair’, have shifted from his axis. Before coming to those, I should confess that I take consolation from the fact that one of the architects of New Labour, whom I cannot name here, broadly agrees with this analysis, and is in despair at the abandonment of the political project which dominated his life.
In December he emailed me, and it is worth quoting at length for reasons you will immediately see. “[The other day] I tried to help Labour by saying that on the deficit, the party was now occupying sensible and reasonable center ground vacated by the Tories. This was not welcome in the leader’s office, I am told, because it implied that Miliband was moving from his left position. They actually want to polarise the choice between the two parties so that people have to make a clearcut decision between left and right…”
And then he delivered the central insight of Blairism, a version of which this article began with. “But most people whose votes are up for grabs do not see themselves as left or right, although they have a preference for fairness in society. They see themselves as reasonable, balanced people who may have their hobby horses (e.g. Europe, immigration) but in the end vote on living standards, public finance, and economic prosperity.” My friend with impeccable judgement and a sense of dismay went on: “The challenge for the left, always, is to develop modern progressive (leftwing) policies without postures and language that make it hard for people to vote for these policies. This is what Tories are better at. They try all the time to make it easier for centrist voters to support rightwing policies. This is what New Labour saw through and succeeded in flipping the Tories over on to their backs.”
You would be hard-pressed to find a more authentic analysis of Milband’s politics from the Blairite perspective than this. Why, then, has Miliband positioned Labour to the left of where it won three elections? Some might argue that the effect of the financial crash was to move all politics against capitalism, so that Miliband has adjusted with the times.
This argument doesn’t convince. The reason Miliband has positioned Labour to the left of Blair is that he himself is to the left of Blair. Miliband is a conventional social democrat, who wants to use the state to break up markets and monopolies using competition. He is first and foremost an economist, who sees politics in terms of means of production: hence his notorious distinction between the producers and predators of modern capitalism.
And what of Cameron? His takeover of the Tory party a decade ago marked the triumph of a faction known as the modernizers, who had earlier hoped Michael Portillo would be their savior. Michael Gove, by far Cameron’s most successful minister until he was dismissed as education secretary for being too successful, wrote a biography of Portillo called “The Future of the Right.” A former Times columnist and leader-writer, he infamously once wrote “I can’t hold back my feelings any more. I love Tony” — and super-charged Blair’s education reforms while in government. I asked him about his admiration for the Labour man.
“What made Tony Blair such an effective politician was his ability to learn on the job,” Gove said. “His biography is called “A Journey for a reason.” He wasted much of his first term because he did not want to expend political capital and risk unpopularity. But he came to recognise how vital it was to use his time in office to pursue radical reform — including of Whitehall — rather than simply steering by the sound of applause. He hired people serious about reform like Michael Barber and Julian Le Grand and took on vested interests. Which is why, of course, the Labour Party turned on him.”
Turn on him it did — but so did Cameron. In his early days he rebranded the Tory party as one for the environment, called himself a liberal Conservative, said the Big Society was what he came into politics for, and talked up the importance of General Wellbeing. Was it all a charade? In my view that is too simple and immature an explanation. I think Cameron is by instinct a centrist, but has been pulled to the right both by an economic narrative of austerity and the structural split in British conservatism.
Over the course of Cameron’s adult lifetime there has been a civil war on the right, unleashed by Thatcherism. We used to call either side the dries and the wets, the Eurosceptics and the Europhiles, the traditionalists and the modernizers. Now we call them Tories and UKIP. The fact that a huge chunk of the Tory family — perhaps a million voters — has got up, left and set up its own party with a hugely charismatic leader in Nigel Farage, is a problem without a solution for Cameron. In the coming days, his best hope of remaining prime minister is to make the UKIP cookie crumble. That is why he is singing nasty lyrics on crime, welfare, immigration and Europe. It is also why Lynton Crosby, the Australian strategist running the Tory campaign, is probably the right man for the job. He compares UKIP with Australia’s hard right One Nation party, founded in 1997 but now ineffectual.
This, then, is a fundamental difference between Miliband and Cameron. The former moved away from Blair by choice; the latter was forced to by expedience. With no money and no majority, Cameron has been effectively in three coalitions: with the Lib Dems, with Labour voting Scotland, and with the UKIP tendency within British conservatism. These forces cannot be reconciled. Luckily for Blair, he never had to bother trying. It turns out he did have an heir in Cameron, but the latter couldn’t marry the man and the moment to create a centrist masterwork. Blair, with big money and big majorities on his side, had advantages his successors may never have — and that, perhaps, is why we may never see his like again.
Amol Rajan is the editor of The Independent, of London. He tweets at @amolrajan .
By the book, deterrence is “a strategy intended to dissuade an adversary from taking an action not yet started” and “the maintenance of military power for the purpose of discouraging an attack.” But as a former NATO commander, in peace and in combat, I would add one thing to the dictionary definitions above — deterrence is also the ability to utilize proven elements of national power from a position of strength and credibility.
When it comes to deterrence, we need look no further than NATO ally Poland and its decision to enlist the Patriot missile system as a key element of its Polish Shield. Patriot capability in Poland now guarantees the latest technology, threat detection, identification and engagement for the country, and for NATO. Now, Poland will present its own credible, strong form of deterrence.
Throughout the last year, Russian President Vladimir Putin has demonstrated his disdain and hostility for the West.  He clearly takes no responsibility for his actions in both Crimea and Ukraine, and he continues to action against the interests of the West, America, and NATO.  The “Russia problem” is not going away. It must be countered from a position of strength, must discourage any attack, and must dissuade Mr. Putin from taking additional action.
Poland thoroughly understands what it is up against. The urgency with which it is procuring the Patriot system is commendable and will ultimately serve as a strategic advantage against Russia and other adversaries. 
The Patriot Missile Defense System has been discouraging and dissuading attacks for over two years now in Turkey vis-à-vis Syria.  This is the same exact system Poland will use to defend its sovereignty and the sovereignty of NATO; and, it is a landmark opportunity for Poland to join a proven set of partners with interoperability across the globe.
Poland is the 14th nation in the Patriot “fraternity,” joining five other NATO nations (the United States, Germany, Spain, Greece, and the Netherlands) plus countries in the Middle East and East Asia. As such, Poland adds to the burden sharing for both developmental and modernization costs while having the same training and support infrastructure as the others. It will have instant interoperability with nations who have used the system in combat. 
As with any weapons system, modernization is essential. Poland should acquire the PAC 3+ system by 2018.  This would put the country on track later acquire the Next Generation Patriot system, planned for 2020-2022. Recently, both Qatar and South Korea decided to upgrade their Patriot systems. The US Congress, in a bipartisan effort that includes the support of 32 representatives, stated that the US is committed to Patriot missiles until 2048. 
Germany would do well to display Poland’s sense of urgency, and decide to upgrade its Patriot Missile Defense System today. Doing so would extend the country’s defense capabilities to secure the whole of Europe. As one of the long-time Patriot users in the Alliance, Germany can stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Poland and serve as a “big brother” in all aspects of training, deployability and operations of the Patriot system.
With today’s potential ballistic missile threats from Russia and the Middle East, other solutions on the market have proven to be non-starters.  By selecting Patriot, Poland is sending a strong message to any potential adversaries. The Patriot Missile System meets the full definition of deterrence — it certainly meets mine.
Lt. General Ralph J. Jodice is a retired 3-star Air Force command pilot with more than 3,500 flight hours. A decorated flag officer, he was the NATO Combined Forces Air Component Commander during Operation Unified Protector, resulting in Libyan liberation from the Muammar Gaddafi regime. Jodice has received numerous awards and decorations including the Distinguished Service Medal and Defense Superior Service Medal.
Most of us get only one chance to make a first impression. But Hillary Clinton gets as many chances as she wants.
She has invented herself almost as many times as Edison tried to invent the light bulb.

This is not necessarily a bad thing. America is a land of reinvention. Our forefathers and foremothers came here to build fresh, new lives, unfettered by the past.
So as Hillary now officially runs for president (again), she is allowed to adopt a new persona (again).
Now, as “Saturday Night Live” deftly satirized over the weekend, she needs to be “personal,” “intimate,” “natural” and “hilarious.”
And Hillary, as her campaign refers to her, was all of these things on Sunday. Not in real life, of course. But in a video. A video put together in advance and tweaked, massaged and edited for days and days.
That Hillary’s presidential announcement video could be mistaken for a drug commercial was no accident.
Americans want quick fixes: better schools, better jobs, better housing, a secure retirement, a level playing field, equal rights and equal opportunities for all.
“Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion,” Hillary says in the video, which features everyday Americans of all races, ethnicities, colors and creeds.
Men hold hands and plan their marriages. A senior citizen grows tomatoes. Two brothers tell us in Spanish that they are starting a business. A factory worker looks forward to a new job.
“When families are strong, America is strong,” Hillary tells us. “So I’m hitting the road to earn your vote, because it’s your time. And I hope you’ll join me on this journey.”
At the end, I expected to see a couple in separate bathtubs holding hands.
Or maybe a blue pill with the voiceover: “Hillary-D, take only as directed during your Democratic caucus or primary. Side effects may include increased prosperity, national security and unbridled joy.”
The real ad was so good — which is to say deftly exploitative — it even had a moment of pure humor when a man says, “But most importantly, we just want to teach our dog to quit eating the trash.” (Shot of dog eating the trash.)
C’mon, that’s funny. Just like Hillary is funny, right?
Well, not so fast there. Ads are not real life. They are how we wish real life to be.
During the ad, Hillary is shown listening and nodding as ordinary voters talk to her. Which is the point. This time around, the campaign is not about Hillary. It is about us! The American voter!
Hillary is merely our champion, and she desperately needs to hear our ideas, thoughts, positions and viewpoints so she can provide what we need.
Which is why she is going on a “listening tour” of key caucus and primary states. Listening tours are a shopworn idea and also a pretty cynical one. The candidate must pretend there are some things she does not know.
What does Hillary not already know, however? Hillary is ferociously well-briefed for every event. But how do you brief somebody to listen?
And “humble” can be hard to practice when you have spent your adult life being “experienced.”
If she was so ready to answer “the 3 a.m. phone call” and save the world eight years ago, what is she unprepared for now?
No matter. Running for president is a performance, and this time Hillary is going to master the performance. People will talk to her, and she will nod and tell a scripted joke and that will get on local TV.
And only then will she be ready to deliver the “big” speech, which is why she started her campaign on video and not in front of a real crowd of real people.
Her campaign has worked enormously hard to lower expectations about Hillary’s ability to perform in person. She must learn and prepare, her handlers say.
Oh, puh-leeze. Gimme a break. Hillary Clinton had been making darn good “big” speeches for years. Remember her concession speech on June 7, 2008?
“Although we weren’t able to shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling this time, thanks to you, it’s got about 18 million cracks in it!” she told a roaring crowd at the National Building Museum in Washington. “And the light is shining through like never before, filling us all with the hope and the sure knowledge that the path will be a little easier next time.”
Well, this is next time, and you know what? The path is a lot easier. Not just because Hillary has kept in shape by knocking down quarter-million dollar speeches for the past two years.
No, this time the path is easier because for another Democrat to beat her in Iowa would take a miracle.
Martin O’Malley or Jim Webb could catch fire there on a personal level. Iowans often admire scrappy candidates. But what they lack is what Barack Obama had in 2008: millions and millions of dollars and an experienced campaign team that knew how to build the ground game that is essential to winning in Iowa’s arcane caucus process.
There are no absolute guarantees, however. And real listening is hard to learn.
On Jan. 26, 2007, Hillary began her previous listening tour in Iowa.
At a town meeting in a high school gym in Des Moines, a man, who identified himself as a Gulf War veteran, asked her if the surge of new troops to Iraq “was going to be enough.”
Instead of answering, Hillary replied “Thanks so much for your service” and then talked about how she visits military hospitals and believes America needs to provide good medical care for its veterans.
Which is not what he asked.
In the one-hour town meeting, Hillary did not mention Iraq a single time. She mentioned ethanol twice.
But today the Iraq War is ancient history (she hopes), and all she has to do is appear to be humble and hilarious, knowledgeable yet not all-knowing.
Last time, before she went to that town hall meeting, she went to Democratic state headquarters to meet with party activists. When asked about the war there, she said: “There are no do-overs in life.”
Oh, but there are. There have to be. Hillary Clinton’s future depends on it.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
There is a poison pill inside the Republican Party and if its presidential hopefuls keep swallowing it, they are going to choke off their chances for the White House.
The religious right has managed to convince some potential candidates that it is extremely powerful. It has convinced the more gullible ones that they must grovel, kowtow and genuflect before it.

This is nonsense. As I have written before, the religious right has not gotten the nominee it has wanted since Ronald Reagan. It is a paper tiger.
And by taking the poison pill that the religious right offers, the potential candidates risk alienating the rest of the nation.
Witness the events of the past few days: Indiana’s Legislature had passed a “religious freedom” law on March 25. It was signed into law by Indiana’s governor, Mike Pence, the next day.
While the actual language of the bill was so dense it read like assembly instructions from IKEA, the purpose was simple: The law would allow businesses to discriminate against homosexuals.
The law was necessary, the religious right said, because Christians are an embattled minority in this country and need special protection to practice their religion.
In that Christians make up about 80 percent of all Americans, they seem like a pretty “muscular” minority, however, and, in reality, only a tiny number of far right conservatives feel embattled, discriminated against or put upon when it comes to the free practice of their religion.
In America today, if you serve the public, you have to serve all the public.
You can’t put up a sign at your lunch counter that says “Whites Only” because it is your personal or religious belief that the races should be separate.
But if you believe the Bible says homosexuality is a sin, should you be able to refuse service to homosexuals?
Eric Miller, a powerful conservative lobbyist in Indiana, backed the “religious freedom” law. “Christian bakers, florists and photographers would now be forced by the government to participate in a homosexual wedding or else they would be punished by the government,” he said. “That’s not right.”
And a beaming Miller stood behind Pence as the governor signed the bill into law.
Pence had been a congressman from 2003 to 2013. He had very conservative views on homosexuality as well as many other subjects. He returned to Indiana to become governor and get executive leadership as a springboard to the presidency.
But Pence failed to appreciate that the almighty dollar was going to be more important to Indiana than the religious right’s view of the Almighty.
Indianapolis, the state’s capital and largest city, mockingly used to be called Indian-no-place. Over the years, however, the city very consciously transformed itself into an international sports hub.
The NCAA is headquartered in Indianapolis, and it threatened to move future events out of the city because of the new law. It wanted the law changed and changed immediately — which is to say, before the Final Four took place there this past weekend.
And the president and chief executive of the Indiana Chamber of Commerce called the law “entirely unnecessary.”
All sorts of giant corporations, including Apple, the Gap, Levi Strauss and Subaru, opposed the law.
But the one that really hurt was Eli Lilly and Company.
Eli Lilly is a $20 billion pharmaceutical behemoth that has been headquartered in Indianapolis since the company was founded in 1876. It employs 11,000 people in the state. And when Eli Lilly is unhappy, Indiana can get downright morose.
“Discriminatory legislation is bad for Indiana and for business,” Eli Lilly’s spokesperson said. “That’s one key reason we worked with the Indiana Chamber and other businesses in an attempt to defeat the legislation.”
But you know who was just pleased as punch with the new law? Top-tier Republican presidential hopefuls Jeb Bush, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, as well as other potential candidates like Rick Perry, Bobby Jindal and Carly Fiorina.
Cruz, the only announced candidate, said Indiana was “giving voice to millions of courageous conservatives across this country who are deeply concerned about the ongoing attacks upon our personal liberties.”
At first, Pence was emboldened by such nonsense. He went on ABC’s “This Week” and told George Stephanopoulos: “We’re not going to change the law, OK?”
That was Sunday, March 29.
By Tuesday, March 31, Pence had learned that hardly anybody in Indiana cared what a bunch of Republican presidential yahoos believed.
Hoosiers cared that thousands of people were threatening to boycott their state. Social injustice turns out to be bad for business. And so Pence said he wanted the law changed. Fast.
Thursday, April 2, the Legislature changed the law, and Pence signed the new law the same day.
“In the midst of this furious debate, I have prayed earnestly for wisdom and compassion,” Pence said.
I don’t know if Pence got either, but he did get a kick in the teeth to his presidential hopes.
Where did this leave Bush, Cruz, Rubio and the others? Looking craven and foolish, that’s where.
No doubt they will get several chances to redeem themselves in the months ahead.
But if they are still searching for Bible verses with which to woo the religious right, I suggest they start with: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
And if someone asks them to pop another poison pill, they should just say no.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
A tiny Texas-based broadband provider and a major telecom trade group fired the first shots in what’s expected to be a drawn-out legal war over the Federal Communications Commission’s new net neutrality rules.
Alamo Broadband, which serves about 700 customers south of San Antonio, on Monday asked the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans to “hold unlawful, vacate, enjoin, and set aside” the net neutrality order, telling the court that the commission overstepped its authority. USTelecom, which represents industry giants like AT&T and Verizon, took a similar action Monday in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.
Other parts of the telecom industry are expected to challenge the FCC’s order, and the documents filed today are likely just the first steps. But they do signal the official start of the legal war over net neutrality, which is expected to drag on for months, if not years — entangling one of the agency’s most important policies.
“The focus of our legal appeal will be on the FCC’s decision to reclassify broadband Internet access service as a public utility service after a decade of amazing innovation and investment under the FCC’s previous light-touch approach,” USTelecom Senior Vice President Jon Banks said in a statement. “As our industry has said many times, we do not block or throttle traffic and FCC rules prohibiting blocking or throttling will not be the focus of our appeal.”
Monday’s legal moves may represent early venue shopping by opponents of the FCC’s rules. Both the New Orleans court and the D.C. Circuit are considered conservative courts, although some public interest groups say the D.C. Circuit is not necessarily unfriendly to their views.
The FCC rules were proposed by Chairman Tom Wheeler and approved by the commission’s Democratic majority in a 3-2 party line vote on Feb. 26. They will regulate broadband like a utility under Title II of the Communications Act to ensure providers treat all Internet traffic equally. Major ISPs AT&T, Verizon and Comcast, along with Republicans, have called the order heavy-handed and warned it will dampen innovation and investment.
The conventional wisdom in Washington has been that the rules have to be published in the Federal Register — a step that hasn’t occurred yet — before they can be challenged. The FCC contends that the petitions to the courts came too early from a procedural perspective.
“The Commission was served today with two challenges to the Open Internet Order,” an FCC spokeswoman said in a statement. “We believe that the petitions for review filed today are premature and subject to dismissal.”
Alamo President Joe Portman has been a vocal critic of the FCC’s order, saying it uses regulations designed for 1930s telephone monopolies that will stifle the development of next-generation broadband networks. He testified at an October forum held by Republican GOP Commissioner Ajit Pai at Texas A&M University.
Portman directed questions Monday to an attorney, Brett Shumate of Wiley Rein, who declined to comment.
The telecom industry has a track record in overturning the FCC’s net neutrality efforts. A lawsuit by Verizon succeeded in scuttling the agency’s previous 2010 Open Internet order.
Tony Romm and Alex Byers contributed to this report.
Starbucks is such a fat target, you have to be nuts not to take a swing at it.
The coffee costs so much, some people call the place “Fivebucks.” English is not good enough for it. You have to order a grande, venti or trenta (unless you’re a stupido and order a short or a tall).

It has its own code, so that you find yourself saying things like, “I’ll have a tall two-pump peppermint, two-pump mocha blended-cream Frappuccino half-caf skinny.”
And you say this to “baristas,” whose employee handbooks require them to be “welcoming,” “genuine,” “knowledgeable,” “considerate” and “involved.”
That last one is the tricky one.
Last week, Howard Schultz, the CEO of Starbucks, decided it would be worthwhile for his baristas to write “Race Together” on the side of each coffee cup and “start a discussion about race in America” with their customers.
As CEOs go, Schultz does not appear to be exceptionally stupid. And he did not think writing two words with a fat black pen on the side of a cardboard cup would work miracles.
He had a much more modest goal. He wanted Americans to start talking about race in no matter how small, brief or modest a fashion.
And I say good for him. Race is the subject most Americans do not want to talk about. And we do talk about it only in moments of crisis, when we cannot ignore it, such as when unarmed black teenagers are gunned down on our streets.
ProPublica, a nonprofit, investigative news operation, released a report last October stating that “young black men are 21 times as likely as their white peers to be killed by police.”
This was based on a study of raw FBI data, which is admittedly incomplete. Some cities don’t even bother to report such data.
Isn’t this worthy of some discussion? Or if we don’t want to jump into the deep end of the pool, couldn’t we at least stick a toe in the water by talking about how different racial groups view racial progress in America?
No, we can’t. Starbucks’ Schultz was denounced as a hypocrite, a fool, a fraud, a dope, a dunce and a dimwit.
Schultz has been involved in controversies before — he has championed gay rights and gun control — and he felt if he had just the tiniest chance to do something about race, it could be worthwhile.
After all, Starbucks sells 4 million coffee drinks per day in America, and 40 percent of its employees are minorities. So maybe on the smallest, most optimistic of levels, a conversation between the races might begin in a few Starbucks. Somewhere. Sometime.
“Conversations are being ignored because people are afraid to touch the issue,” Schultz said earlier this year. “But if I ignore this and just keep ringing the register, then I become part of the problem. So here we are. Let’s talk.”
Let’s not.
The reaction to Schultz’s plan largely ranged from ridicule to derision. Which is not much of a range. But it is something Twitter is particularly well-suited for.
I am not saying some of the tweets were not funny or trenchant:
— “Being a barista is hard enough. Having to talk #RaceTogether with a woman in Lululemon pants while pouring pumpkin spice is just cruel.”
— “Not sure what @Starbucks was thinking. I don’t have time to explain 400 years of oppression to you & still make my train. #RaceTogether”
— “if only Selma had just put in a starbucks”
Some also wrote longer commentaries. And the general tone was often one of anger and disbelief that a mere barista could talk meaningfully about race.
Andrea King Collier, a journalist and author, wrote: “The baristas, as pleasant as they may be, can’t write a name accurately on a cup to save their lives. I have been Andrew, Annette, Austin and Audrey. Maybe, Starbucks should start a spelling campaign first, before a race conversation campaign.”
Danielle Henderson wrote at Fusion: “It’s the height of liberal American idealism and a staggering act of hubris to think we can solve our systemic addiction to racism over a Frappucino.”
But Starbucks’ Schultz didn’t think he would “solve” anything. He just wanted to start a discussion. And who came up with a better idea? Who came up with any idea?
The alternative is what we have now: Silence. Avoidance. Looking the other way. Burying our heads in the sand.
In 2009, Eric Holder made a speech after being sworn in as America’s first black attorney general.
“Though this nation has proudly thought of itself as an ethnic melting pot, in things racial we have always been and continue to be, in too many ways, essentially a nation of cowards,” Holder said.
He called for a “national conversation” on race. He didn’t think it would be easy, but he thought it would be necessary.
He received no support from President Barack Obama, who, after the killing of Trayvon Martin in 2012, said, it was not “particularly productive when politicians try to organize conversations” on race.
So here it is 2015 and a nonpolitician who owns a bunch of coffee joints tries to organize such a conversation. And the public outcry against the idea becomes so great that he is forced to drop the idea after just a few days.
On Sunday, Schultz said while Starbucks would continue to try to improve race relations in America, it will abandon writing “Race Together” on coffee cups and initiating chats about race.
According to Fortune magazine, many customers had feared it “would slow service inside Starbucks’ restaurants.”
And we wouldn’t want that.
I mean, what’s a dead teenager compared with having your soy latte come cold?
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
If Iowa didn’t exist, the national press corps would have to invent it.
The majority of reporters who cover national politics live in the Eastern time zone. This sometimes nags at them. And, every now and then, they feel a guilty need to go out and find the “real” America.

Ordinary people who live in the Midwest and do something for a living that is both alien and fascinating to the East Coast press are automatically “authentic” and their opinions carry great weight. (It’s almost as good as having a British accent.)
Take farming. Most East Coast reporters have no idea how food gets on their plate. Well, yes, the waiter brings it. But where does the waiter get the food?
That people grow crops and raise animals seems terribly real and much closer to the American mainstream than being a reporter.
So every four years, reporters go to Iowa and squish through piles of cowflop to interview “real” farmers.
The first event of note is usually the straw poll held in Ames. Nobody yet knows how many candidates will compete in this year’s poll. Some say at least 17. Though Democrats can attend and even vote in the poll, all the speakers will be Republicans. After they speak, a nonbinding vote is held. Because the vote is nonbinding, the press can have it both ways.
We can do stories about how meaningless the vote is and then we can do stories about who won the vote and how significant that is.
It is like a serial murderer scrawling on a subway wall: “Stop me before I kill again.”
The trouble with Ames, however, is that some felt it was never “Iowa” enough. Ames is home to Iowa State University, which has more than 40,000 students and faculty, none of whom produces cowflop.
Ames wants people to visit and think “sophisticated,” not “bucolic.”
The state of Iowa, on the other hand, actually is bucolic. More than half of its towns have 500 people or fewer.
The second problem with Ames is that it charged the Iowa Republican Party too much money to serve as the straw poll site.
Ames acted as if it had a lock on the event, because it has always been held there. But the straw poll is not exactly something Marquette and Joliet brought with them in their canoes when they explored Iowa in the 1600s.
The straw poll, which began in 1979, has been held only six times. (I have been to five of them. If I go to one more, they give me a live chicken.)
This year, the Iowa Republican Party did the unthinkable. It turned its back on Ames and announced it was moving the straw poll to Boone, 18 miles to the west.
Eighteen miles might not seem like a long distance, but in this case, it is a world away. Boone practically screams rustic charm. It is the birthplace of Mamie Eisenhower, had exactly zero murders from 2000 to 2012, has at least two hotels rated as “fire-safe,” the most common first name in town is John and the second-most common is Mary.
“The bucolic surroundings evoke Iowa’s unique history,” Iowa Republican Chairman Jeff Kaufmann said of the straw poll site, “with a railroad flanking one section and corn and soybean fields surrounding the others.”
And then he brought out the big gun. “You can see farmers in their fields,” Kaufmann said.
Farmers. Right there in their fields. Doing farm stuff.
Listen up, TV news producers: Are we talking America or what?
A lot of people stressed that the site is “flat” — Iowa has plenty of flat — which would make it easier for older people to get around. But I kept looking for one more thing besides bucolic and flat.
The speeches are going to take place under a giant tent. The event will be held Aug. 8. Standing in a tent for seven or eight hours under an Iowa sun in August can be pleasant if there is a nice breeze. Or it can reduce you to a fajita if there is not.
But wait. The news release noted that there are three air-conditioned buildings on the straw poll site. And one of them will be reserved for the media.
Being surrounded by corn and soybeans is bucolic. Making sure the press is happy is sophisticated.
Boone looks like it’s going to have it all.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
Secrecy is to Hillary Clinton what sex was to Bill.
She has to have it. She doesn’t care if it is wise. She doesn’t care if it does more harm than good. And enjoyment doesn’t enter into it.

She has been secretive for much of her political life, which is one reason that many people still have no clear idea who she really is.
Which is a shame. There is much about Hillary Clinton to admire.
But there also is much to look at and ask: “Who the hell does she think she is?”
Her current controversy — and there always seems to be a current controversy — involves her emails as secretary of state. Instead of using an official government email account, as administration policy required, Hillary set up her own, private email account, apparently at her home at Chappaqua, New York.
Why did she do this? We don’t know.
Who actually set up the account? We don’t know.
Was the person who set it up an expert on cybersecurity? We don’t know that, either.
Hillary had to have been aware of the global threat of email hacking, identity theft and other cybercrimes.
She also had to have been aware that foreign governments and their agencies, such as the Chinese army, had been implicated in such crimes.
And she was not exactly Ms. Nobody. She was the newly named United States secretary of state.
So what was her very first action? She set up a private email account called hdr22@clintonemail.com, then used it for all her emails — official and unofficial.
HDR, as people figured out when the account was made public recently, probably stands for Hillary Diane Rodham, her maiden name. Why 22? One theory is that Hillary was 22 years old when she first met Bill.
All of which would have taken the cyber experts at the People’s Liberation Army of China about 10 seconds to figure out. Which means they could have used the next 10 seconds to figure out her password.
Me, I am guessing Hillary’s password is password. Which seems to be about the limit of her tech savvy.
And keep in mind she apparently used this account for every email she sent and received when she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013.
When she left office, she took all the emails with her, as if they were her private property.
Does that make sense to you?
If it does, your name is probably hdr22.
In Hillary’s world, everybody is out to get her. Which is why she surrounds herself with ultra-loyalists, people who believe, as she does, that she is entitled to special behavior and special treatment because she is a special victim.
Hillary’s inner circle was once called Hillaryland. It was known for two things: absolute allegiance and total secrecy. Even Hillary used the term every now and then. “While the West Wing had a tendency to leak … Hillaryland never did,” she boasted in her memoir, “Living History.”
In reality, Hillaryland leaked all the time. But they were controlled leaks, the stories that Hillary’s people wanted in the media.
There also were stories, however, that Hillary did not want in the media and it was a major preoccupation of her staff to see that those stories never saw the light of day or got quickly dismissed if they were published.
To Hillary and her people, setting up a private email account was just another way to control the news. If it was private, they had a better chance of keeping things secret, they figured. For them, this was standard operating procedure. What was the big deal?
Well, there are several big deals. And even though it was The New York Times that broke the email story, it was The Washington Post that wrote a real fire-breather of an editorial about it on March 5.
Hillary’s “decision to exclusively use a private email account while secretary suggests she made a deliberate decision to shield her messages from scrutiny,” the editorial said.
Then it asked a number of questions that Hillary has not yet deigned to answer:
“How secure was the private email? What was her motive? Did anyone ask why the secretary of state was breaking with an announced administration policy? Why did she not turn over the emails promptly upon leaving office? Has she withheld anything?”
True, Hillary has been the object of partisan attacks in the past and had reason to fear more attacks.
“Such fears would have had ample basis, but they do not excuse a penchant for control and secrecy that she has exhibited before — and that remains a worrying attribute as Ms. Clinton possibly enters a presidential campaign,” the editorial said.
A penchant for control and secrecy. That is not exactly the campaign slogan Hillary has been looking for.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, said on “Meet the Press” Sunday: “I think that she needs to step up and come out and state exactly what the situation is. From this point on, the silence is going to hurt her.”
At some point in the past, Bill probably realized that his fooling around was going to hurt him, his family and his country. But that didn’t make it any easier for him to stop.
It’s the same thing with secrecy. After awhile, you don’t even realize it’s an addiction.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
Much has been written and said about Chris Christie’s fall, from being hailed as the GOP’s brightest rising star in 2013 to being dismissed in the New York Times and Washington Post as an out-of-touch has-been. Those articles, like much of the commentary on news shows like “Morning Joe,” have picked apart Governor Christie’s management style, his approach to the press, and a series of miscues that followed his massive reelection landslide just 15 months ago.
Does Chris Christie seem prickly, out-of-touch, and temperamentally overmatched by the challenges of a long-running presidential campaign? Maybe. But right now, all the chattering about the New Jersey governor’s failings means about as much as the kudos Rudy Giuliani was receiving at this point in the 2008 election cycle. The fact is you never know how a candidate and his family will respond to the rigors of a presidential campaign until they actually jump into the campaign.
“America’s Mayor” was not up to the challenges of the process required to become America’s president. And the same Bill Clinton who Sen. Bob Kerrey and many others predicted would be “opened up like a rusty can” by the glare of a presidential campaign staggered through the snows of New Hampshire in 1992 with sex scandals, draft controversies, and a slew of other challenges chasing him down to his supposed political death. He went on to be the first Democrat to get elected twice since FDR.
(More columns and blogs from Joe Scarborough)
Despite everyone’s best guesses about Chris Christie, the fact is that you never know whether a batter can hit a curveball in the Bigs until, well, he steps into the batter’s box and takes a swing. All the missteps from Trenton to 10 Downing Street won’t mean a thing if Christie hits it out of the park in his first few New Hampshire town-hall meetings. If he does, you can bet the star-maker machinery will slowly start churning his way and we will excitedly start talking about “The Christie Comeback.”
Will it happen? Who knows? But we will all get a better clue about whether it can happen or not when the governor has to handle that first curveball aimed at his head once this long political preseason finally comes to an end.
Just when did assassination become a subject for American humor?
This is a nation that still mourns Abraham Lincoln, John Kennedy and Martin Luther King — all assassinated. It is living through a period of renewed racial violence in which young black men have been killed by police and two New York City officers were assassinated in the past week.

But on Christmas Day no less, the big new movie release — “The Interview” — is a lampoon built around a plot to assassinate Kim Jong Un, the leader of North Korea.
Kim is a real live person, mind you, portrayed as actually being the assassination subject in the movie. Nothing like “The Day of the Jackal,” the famous 1973 thriller that portrayed a failed assassination attempt against French President Charles de Gaulle — after de Gaulle had already died peacefully three years before. Nothing like the 1940 films of Charlie Chaplin or the Three Stooges mocking Adolf Hitler prior to the United States entering World War II.
This is a distinction not lost on North Korea. The Pyongyang government is alleged by the U.S. to have mounted an unprecedented cyberattack that exposed hundreds of corporate documents within Sony Pictures, the maker of the movie. Unlike the real Korean War, no one is killed in this counteroffensive. Instead, the big revelations are: North Korea is more Internet-savvy than many thought and Hollywood more back-stabbing and even racist.
President Barack Obama says Kim should lighten up and remember that the actors Seth Rogen and James Franco in “The Interview” pose no real danger. Respected critics cast the movie as one more about two aging American adolescent characters — the same Rogen and Franco — trapped in their own world just as the Korean dictator, played by Randall Park, is trapped in his.
The pathos is really all about us Americans then, not Kim Jong Un after all? What a relief.
But how about the killing?
Suppose North Korea made a comedy about white racists plotting to assassinate Obama? They jump the fence and break into the White House only to find Obama drinking bourbon and listening to country music — whiter than they ever imagined. But they still kill him before the movie ends. Would America find that funny?
No, killing makes a difference. All the more so in this period of madness where the U.S. faces enemies who slaughter children in Pakistan and then teach 8-year-olds in Syria how to behead their enemies. All the more so because this is North Korea, whose brutal record on human rights is so terrifying that even the United Nations is beginning to take notice.
If America is to be a moral force, doesn’t it have to look inside itself as to what killing really is? Has it become so disconnected that it doesn’t understand how the rest of world might see our own penchant for violence?
Killing is not a video game. Those killed are dead for a long time. Those who do the killing are never the same again.
Just look at modern history.
It used to be that there was a military draft in which American boys were regularly sent off to fight and kill for their country. World War II in the 1940s was followed by Korea in the 1950s and then Vietnam in the 1960s. By that point many young draftees in Vietnam, who had uncles or fathers in the earlier wars, felt this was almost part of growing up, becoming a man.
This reporter lived through this period as an infantry medic in Vietnam in 1969. I had agreed to be drafted as a conscientious objector and carried no weapon. But there were no right answers in that war. I couldn’t escape being part of the fighting and killing any more than the rest of my platoon, boys like me whom I deeply loved.
It’s a shadow on your soul that you carry forever. And one that came home again for many combat veterans in the debate in Congress over outlawing torture after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) took the lead in opposing torture as someone who had been a prisoner of war himself. For all their past tensions with McCain, veterans like Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Rep. John Murtha (D-Pa.) helped drive the bill through the House and Senate. A big part of this was an unstated code: You can ask me to kill for my country, but don’t ask me to be part of torture.
In the years after Vietnam, the U.S. ended the draft and moved to a more professional, volunteer military. This worked well enough in the first Gulf War, the 1991 Desert Storm operation that was over in a matter of months. But the strain showed in prolonged engagements like Iraq and Afghanistan.
The casualty rate never approached the losses in Vietnam. But the everyday American became more and more isolated from the killing, even as Army and Marine infantry were forced into repeated tours — something most draftees were spared during Vietnam.
As if to punctuate this point, Clint Eastwood’s new film, “American Sniper,” about the late Navy SEAL veteran Chris Kyle, was released this past week almost alongside “The Interview.”
Kyle, who served four tours in Iraq and was credited with 160 confirmed kills, was killed himself in February 2013, allegedly by a Marine veteran who is to go on trial this winter.
Makes you wonder how Kyle would react to a Christmas Day comedy about assassination. Would Kyle think it was funny?
Ask Dr. Politics! You are fair, and we are unbalanced:
Dear Dr. Politics: The column you wrote about Mitt Romney was vile and disgusting. Aren’t you afraid the next time you see him, he will slap you silly? I hope he does.

Reply: Writing mean things about a person while knowing you will have to see them in the future can be difficult.
But Dr. Politics does not see journalism as a profession or a craft, but as a mission. And journalists must be true to that mission if we want to continue to be vile and disgusting.
Where do we learn how to be vile and disgusting? We read the comments that come after the stories on the Internet.
Our mission requires courage. Years ago, back in the era of newspapers, I once wrote: “What were the three most difficult years in Dan Quayle’s life? Answer: The fourth grade.”
Was I afraid when I next saw Quayle? No, I was not. Because I knew he did not read newspapers.
We realize politics is not easy. Decisions must be made. David Letterman says Jeb Bush is already asking himself, “How do I find a vice president as likable as Dick Cheney?”
But Mitt Romney is so confident about 2016 that he is already strapping his dog to the roof of his car.
Am I afraid that the next time I see him, Mitt Romney will slap me silly? No, I am not. He is too well-bred; he is too much of a gentleman.
I am afraid he will hire somebody to slap me silly.
Dear Dr. Politics: Don’t you think it was sickening that Sony Pictures withdrew its movie about the assassination of the North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un? Even President Obama said Sony was wrong for caving in to North Korea’s threats.
Reply: Yeah, but I didn’t see President Obama offering to show the picture in the White House screening room.
Instead, Obama said: “We cannot have a society in which some dictator someplace can start imposing censorship here in the United States.”
But I wonder what that reaction would have been if the North Koreans had made a movie about the assassination of Barack Obama and Sony had agreed to distribute it to U.S. theaters.
Would we have hailed Sony for its courage? Or would we have gone bonkers and yelled and screamed about how irresponsible that was and picketed any movie theater that dared show it.
Kim Jong Un is a whack job, but that does not necessarily mean we should hail movies about him getting whacked.
American critics have seen the movie, which is titled “The Interview.”
USA Today said: “Far more lame and boring than incendiary, ‘The Interview’ is not very clever, funny or well-made.”
The Wall Street Journal called it “remarkably dismal” and said watching it “is torture from almost start to finish.”
The reviewer then asks the essential question: “So how did such a turkey ever escape the studio lot? A significant part of the answer lies in the dumbing-down of the audience that began decades ago, when studios discovered that kids would turn out to see almost any piece of junk on any weekend provided the marketing departments did their jobs.”
Yes, it is disturbing that Sony pulled the movie. More disturbing is that Sony ever produced this dreck in the first place.
But my favorite reaction came from one human rights group that claims it intends to airdrop DVDs of “The Interview” into North Korea by hydrogen balloon so that the Korean masses can see the movie.
But the group better also airdrop DVD players.
And electricity.
Dear Dr. Politics: Dick Cheney said recently that “torture was something that was very carefully avoided” when he was in office. Is that true?
Reply: It’s a matter of definition. In February 2006, Cheney shotgunned a guy in the face, neck and chest while hunting in Kenedy County, Texas. The guy, Harry Whittington, then 78, was taken to a hospital, where he suffered a minor heart attack, atrial fibrillation and a collapsed lung. He survived, but doctors had to leave about 30 pieces of birdshot inside him.
Cheney never apologized to Whittington. But upon his release from the hospital, Whittington apologized to Cheney.
“My family and I are deeply sorry for everything Vice President Cheney and his family have had to deal with,” Whittington said. “We hope that he will continue to come to Texas and seek the relaxation that he deserves.”
See what I mean about definition? You shotgun another person and it’s going to be called “attempted murder” or “reckless endangerment.”
Dick Cheney shotguns another person and it’s called “relaxation.”
President Obama joked at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in 2009 that Cheney was “very busy working on his memoirs, tentatively titled, ‘How to Shoot Friends and Interrogate People.’”
I think Obama was joking, anyway.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
If your mother says she loves you, check it out.
That’s what we were told; that’s what we were taught. City News Bureau of Chicago, my first job. Gritty stuff. Police, courts, fires, “floaters” found in the Chicago River, stuff you went to. You talked to people; you got the facts.

They used to call it reporting.
There is a story now raging about a University of Virginia student who says she was gang-raped by seven men in a fraternity there on Sept. 28, 2012.
The woman, identified only as “Jackie,” says she was taken to a room at the fraternity and thrown to the floor, in the process breaking a glass table, which cut her arm. The men then pinned her down on the broken glass, raped her in succession and left her bleeding between the legs.
She knew two of the attackers, including the guy who lured her to the fraternity. She got out of the place, her dress now blood-spattered. She did not go to a hospital or call the police.
She called friends, who met her and, she says, talked her out of contacting authorities because of “the social price” they might all pay. In other words, they might be shunned and not get invited to any more fraternity parties.
( From POLITICO Magazine: Why we believed Jackie's rape story)
Rolling Stone broke this story last month in a 9,000-word article by Sabrina Rubin Erdely. It got huge attention. Campus rape is an extremely serious problem throughout the United States, and Jackie’s story personalized it and made it human in horrendous detail.
But how much of it is true? Not all of it, according to stories recently published in The Washington Post, which found evidence that conflicted with Jackie’s account.
At least one friend who saw Jackie after the incident disputes her account, saying he did not see any injuries to her or blood on her dress. He also says she did not claim to have been raped but that she said she had been forced to perform oral sex. The group of friends urged her to seek help, but she wanted to return to her dorm, where the group spent the night comforting her.
Forced oral sex is a hideous crime. Under Virginia law, it is a different crime than rape, which Virginia defines as forced “sexual intercourse,” though conviction for either crime includes the possibility of incarceration for life.
But which story is true? Or is either true? Studies have found that false accusations of rape are rare, but they do exist.
At first, Rolling Stone stood by its story. Now it has backed away.
“In the face of new information, there now appear to be discrepancies in Jackie’s account, and we have come to the conclusion that our trust in her was misplaced,” Will Dana, the magazine’s managing editor, wrote.
That caused another explosion. The magazine was throwing Jackie under the bus. It was all her fault.
The outrage caused Dana to change his note to: “These mistakes are on Rolling Stone, not on Jackie.”
But Dana also wrote: “Because of the sensitive nature of Jackie’s story, we decided to honor her request not to contact the man she claimed orchestrated the attack on her nor any of the men she claimed participated in the attack for fear of retaliation against her.”
Oh, brother. You don’t check out both sides of a story because one side doesn’t want you to? I don’t know what that is called, but it sure isn’t reporting.
Which brings us to another old saying told to reporters, one less publicized: “You can always ruin a good story by asking too many questions.”
Get both sides of a story and the story might fall apart. So why get both sides?
Later, Rolling Stone said it had tried to find the attackers but, “We did not talk to them. We could not reach them.”
But it went ahead with the story anyway.
Jackie asked Erdely “to be taken out of the article” before it appeared, according to The Washington Post.
“She said Erdely refused and Jackie was told that the article would go forward regardless,” the Post reported.
What? Your main source says she no longer wants to appear in the story and instead of hearing alarm bells, you refuse and muscle her into it?
That’s not reporting. It’s something. But it’s not reporting.
Rolling Stone is now investigating its story, as are the University of Virginia and the Charlottesville, Virginia, police.
The Washington Post’s T. Rees Shapiro has done excellent reporting on this incident. Real gumshoe stuff, the kind of reporting Rolling Stone could have done and didn’t. The Post’s Paul Farhi also has done excellent analysis, raising questions and issues that Rolling Stone turned a blind eye to.
The Post talked to Jackie several times. She sticks to her basic story, though she says some details may be wrong. Erdely at first refused to talk to the Post, but then later did, saying that she “corroborated every aspect of the story that I could.”
Except that Erdely didn’t talk to any of the alleged attackers, nor find any of the discrepancies the Post found.
Jackie says she feels manipulated by Rolling Stone. And many people across the country are very worried that women who have been raped and assaulted may now be even less willing to go to authorities and press charges.
But Rolling Stone had a blockbuster and went with it. The reporters and editors didn’t ask too many questions. Because they had too good a story. And now that blockbuster has landed on their heads, and they are trying to squirm out from under.
If your mother says she loves you, check it out. Because if you don’t, somebody else will.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
Blessed art they who are ready for Hillary, for they have the patience of saints.
Each day, they gather money and names and deep data to lay at her feet in preparation for her presidential announcement.

Each day, they chant, “We think she will, we think she will, we know she will, we know she will!”
And each day, they are rewarded with silence.
Not since Hamlet first strode upon the stage circa 1599 and dithered over “To be, or not to be” have so many held their collective breath for an answer.
( Also on POLITICO: Delay of a game)
Will Hillary Clinton run? Well, yes, of course, she will run. But the official line — to call it a strategy would be to give it more credit than it deserves — is that she is torn between her duty to her country and love for her family. One of her possible staff members (their numbers are legion) tried to convince me recently that she might not run in order to spend time with her new grandchild.
But if she runs and wins, I pointed out, not only could she be a helicopter grandparent, but a helicopter grandparent with the full use of Marine One.
Yet, these are her wilderness months. She received a mere $14 million as a book advance. And she remains haunted by memories of coming “out of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt,” a memory in the same category of her undergoing sniper fire in Bosnia in 1996, which is to say sincerely remembered but actually fictional.
But now she must force herself to take private jets around the country to deliver $300,000 speeches, where, according to her printed requests, she must have lemon wedges, water at room temperature, diet ginger ale and “a platter of crudité and hummus in the green room.”
Many of her devoted followers are depending on her to announce her presidential bid no later than January of next year and go out and campaign already. Legally, she could continue to give speeches for huge bucks while she pursues the presidency, but that might not sit well with the public.
So far, Hillary’s non-campaign campaign is based on three things: She is the inevitable Democratic nominee. She deserves the presidency. And there is nobody who can beat her.
All are arguable. All are insufficient. Americans want to hear what you intend to achieve and how you intend achieve it. They want to know where you will take the country and the world. They want from Hillary what Hillary doesn’t want to give them: the “vision” thing that she finds all soft and gooey and embarrassing.
But the hard fact is that Hillary Clinton’s non-campaigning campaign is not going well for her. She is not achieving the other essential she needs to win in 2016: likability. As I have written before, in modern presidential politics, the more likable candidate almost always wins.
Hillary, it is said, will soon begin a “listening tour,” the same shopworn stunt she used in 1999 when running for the U.S. Senate from New York. Listening tours can be effective only if the public thinks you are really listening. But is there anything Hillary really, truly, believes she can learn from actual people?
What she has learned so far has moved her to silence. Look at the recent coverage in this publication alone:
David Nather and Katie Glueck in POLITICO on Nov. 26: “One by one, potential 2016 candidates are starting to weigh in on this week’s events in Ferguson — carefully … And Hillary Clinton? She’s stayed silent, and her aides are giving no sign that that’s about to change.”
Headline on Maggie Haberman’s story in POLITICO this Monday: “Hillary Clinton avoids Keystone at conservation group event.”
Harry Enten, a senior political writer and analyst for FiveThirtyEight.com ran a chart Monday labeled: “Hillary Clinton’s Popularity Continues to Drop.” He wrote that Hillary’s net favorable rating has continued to fall since she left the Cabinet and in the most recent YouGov poll reached an all-time low, a result echoed, he said, by recent NBC/Wall Street Journal and Quinnipiac University polls.
She is also continuing to drop when matched against potential Republican rivals. “Any lead Clinton does have is almost entirely attributable to being better known,” Enten wrote.
Enten admitted such polls “are not very predictive” at this stage of the game, but concluded that Hillary “no longer looks like such a juggernaut.”
Hillary has the clout to scare off some Democratic primary opponents, but not Republican opponents. True, she might be lucky enough to face off in a general election against some wacko Republican extremist who will virtually hand the election to her.
But depending on your enemy to do the right thing is a dangerous way to begin any battle.
Hillary needs to announce for the presidency. Soon. The media have moved from Hillary fatigue to Hillary exhaustion, and this is not helping her.
She needs to make her announcement speech in front of a live audience, not on videotape like last time or even on IMAX 3D. She must continue to make many more speeches for many more months — all for free.
And she needs to present not just competence and vision but a likable personality that her friends insist represents the true her.
This is called campaigning, and while it doesn’t always come with hummus and crudités, it might just make her president.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
U.S. allies Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, along with Syria, are using malicious email and Facebook messages to track and entrap journalists, dissidents and campaigners, who face jail and torture if identified and arrested, according to a new study.
The cyberattacks are often very simple — just a plausible email, Twitter or Facebook message with a malicious link. Clicking that link reveals the IP address of the user, linking a particular computer or home network to targeted email or other account, according to the study from The Citizen Lab, run by the Munk School of Global Affairs in Toronto.

But some attacks are more complex, using remote access and surveillance software marketed specifically to law enforcement and intelligence agencies all over the world by companies like Gamma International and Hacking Team.
Data from the attacks have been used in prosecutions, including one 19-year-old who was sentenced to a year in prison for calling the King of Bahrain a dictator on Twitter, states the study.
But many of the attacks are borderline inept and could be thwarted with simple security procedures, the authors found.
By following the chain of malicious links and other suspicious messages sent to dissidents all the way back to government agencies, the study aims to refute these governments’ often strenuous denials that they do not use malicious software to track citizens.
When Governments Hack Opponents: A Look at Actors and Technology, is published in the proceedings of the USENIX Security Symposium, dated August 2014.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak and remove all doubt.
This saying is so funny and so wise that a number of funny and wise men are given credit for it, including Abraham Lincoln, Mark Twain and Alex Rieger of “Taxi” (season two, episode 36, “Louie Meets the Folks”).

So how come so few people follow this advice? Think about your own life. How many times have you left a party or a meeting and said to yourself: “Why didn’t I just shut up?”
For politicians, the problem is especially acute. They feel the need to speak up, speak out and remove all doubt as to whether they are fools.
There have been so many examples recently, I barely know where to begin. But here are two seemingly different, but actually related, cases:
CASE ONE: Is an Oklahoma congressman a living human being or was he hanged in 2011?
U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas, a 10-term Republican from Oklahoma, won his primary last Tuesday with 83 percent of the vote, a margin that most political analysts would call “convincing.”
But Timothy Ray Murray, who got only 5 percent of the vote in that primary, now says the election is invalid because Lucas “is no longer alive and has been displayed by a lookalike.”
The real Frank Lucas, Murray says, was “executed by The World Court on or about Jan. 11, 2011 in Southern Ukraine.”
Murray furthers states that he, himself, is “a human.”
I feel for Murray on this one. Normally in Oklahoma being a human is good enough to get you into Congress.
But according to TV station KFOR in Oklahoma City, Rep. Lucas says he is alive, has never been executed and has never even been to Ukraine.
“Many things have been said about me, said to me during [the] course of my campaigns,” Rep. Lucas stated. “This is the first time I’ve ever been accused of being a body double or a robot.”
So, here’s the question: Should Murray have remained silent, or was he justified in asserting that because his opponent was dead, he cannot serve in Congress?
Ruling: Murray should have remained silent. The Constitution states: “No person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of twenty-five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of the State in which he shall be chosen.”
It says nothing about being alive.
CASE TWO: Is Hillary Clinton capable of emotion?
Clinton’s book tour has been awash in controversy because of her statements that she was “dead broke” when she left the White House, with only a multimillion-dollar book advance, one $1.7 million home and one $2.8 million home to comfort her. She also has been sharply questioned about how far she has “evolved” on the subject of same-sex marriage, which she used to oppose and now says it is up to each state to decide.
President Obama came to her defense — sort of — on Monday when he said: “I think that Hillary has been to this rodeo a bunch of times. … Over time, I don’t think it’s going to make a big difference.”
Over time? How about November 2016? Would that be inside or outside the critical time period?
No matter. Hillary has bigger things to worry about.
Remember that historic picture of her in the Situation Room at the White House, sitting around a table with the president, vice president and others watching the raid on Osama bin Laden’s compound?
In that picture, Hillary is the only one with her hand to her face, in what appears to be a moment of pure emotion, whether shock, horror, anticipation or something else. Everyone else in the room is maintaining a deadpan expression.
So what was Hillary really feeling? The New York Times recently took a look:
On May 5, 2011, Hillary told ABC News that it was probably allergies.
“I am somewhat sheepishly concerned that it was my preventing one of my early spring allergic coughs,” she said.
She also said she had “no idea” what she was watching when White House photographer Pete Souza snapped the picture.
But that was the old Hillary. Solid, intense, emotionless.
Today, there is a new Hillary. And she has a new reason for her hand being at her mouth.
Hillary recently told the Italian magazine Venerdì: “We watched it all in real time, the helicopters that landed in the courtyard of Osama’s compound, our SEALs that attacked the building, the helicopter’s tail that hit the wall, but succeeded in touching down regardless, and I closed my mouth to keep my heart from coming out of my throat. …”
Wait. Now she has a clear idea of what was happening instead of “no” idea?
And now it wasn’t allergies but an emotion so deeply felt that it almost caused her heart to come out of her throat?
As the Times reported, this is a “shift from a cough to a gasp.”
So should Clinton have spoken up, revealing a flip-flop, or kept silent, leaving her critics less ammunition?
Ruling: She did the right thing by revealing she has emotions. In every election, at least one candidate should not be a robot.
Roger Simon is POLITICO’s chief political columnist.
Big Soda may find out its Big Gulp victory in New York is more a little sip and not all that satisfying.
The New York State Court of Appeals decided 4-2 on Thursday that New York City’s Board of Health exceeded its authority in proposing to limit to 16 ounces the size of sugary drinks that could be served by restaurants, fast-food franchises and similar outlets.


The Senate panel probing Russian interference in the 2016 election aims to finish its work by the end of this year and plans to double the number of witness interviews to nearly 90 before lawmakers break for the August recess, the Republican leader of the investigation said Wednesday.
“I’d like to finish by the end of this year,” Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) told reporters when asked about his timeline for completing a final report, saying that timeline was "aspirational." “It can be done.”
Story Continued Below
Burr said the intelligence committee’s aides have already spoken to “well over 40” people — and a source close to the investigation characterized that group primarily as intelligence community analysts and former government officials like Jeh Johnson, who served as President Barack Obama’s Homeland Security secretary.
“We’ve got a very aggressive schedule in July,” Burr explained. “We may double the number of interviews by the time we leave for the August recess based upon our schedule.”
The Senate panel is one of at least five committees digging into Russia’s role in influencing the election and any ties between the Cold War adversary and President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign.
Much of Burr’s committee's work has taken place behind closed doors, though it held its seventh public hearing on Wednesday on how Moscow has used cyber espionage and viral fake news stories to influence elections in Europe. Both the Senate panel and its House counterpart have issued multiple subpoenas, including to Trump’s former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
And Burr told POLITICO on Wednesday his panel had reached an agreement to get memos James Comey wrote on his interactions with Trump, including a meeting in which the president allegedly urged the former FBI director to drop an investigation into Flynn.
On Tuesday, an attorney for GOP operative Roger Stone said the longtime Trump associate was preparing to testify July 24 in a closed session before the House Intelligence Committee, where he planned to explain his communications with Moscow-linked hackers and WikiLeaks, which published stolen emails last year from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta.
While the Senate Intelligence Committee has also sought documents from Stone, Burr said his panel wasn’t sure an interview with him was necessary.
“To bring anybody in for an interview or for a hearing, you have to know what it is you want to ask them. We’re not there with Roger Stone. We still have a very difficult time understanding whether he has anything to contribute to our investigation,” Burr said.
Several other former Trump associates have also signaled interest in speaking to Congress in attempts to clear their names, including former campaign communications adviser Michael Caputo, former campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page and Flynn, who requested immunity in exchange for his testimony. Burr said the committee was still going through the roster of Trump's campaign associates to determine who mattered to the probe.
“We have to separate what people say from what we find people do or did,” Burr said. “They haven’t necessarily been high on our list because we haven’t identified high value to them.”
The North Carolina senator wouldn’t comment when asked if his panel was planning to interview Jared Kushner, the senior Trump White House adviser and presidential son-in-law whose finances and business dealings have reportedly drawn the interest of special counsel Robert Mueller. “I don’t get into specific people, but everybody of interest we’ve certainly made contact with,” Burr said.
Interest on Capitol Hill in deciphering Russia’s influence on the 2016 campaign has picked up steam since the start of the new Congress earlier this year. While there have been partisan splits over whether lawmakers should directly focus on the Trump campaign, members in both parties agree they must quickly determine what federal, state and local election officials can do to fend off another wave of Moscow-driven cyberattacks.
“You certainly want to have it done soon enough so that states and other authorities can take defensive steps,” said Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), one of Trump’s 2016 primary rivals.
GOP leaders have so far resisted calls for a special joint House-Senate effort to investigate the Russia issue, and it’s unclear how the investigation efforts will compare to oversight by lawmakers after other presidential scandals.
The Senate Watergate special committee lasted a little more than 16 months and disbanded after it produced a final report that prompted impeachment proceedings and led to President Richard Nixon’s resignation. A Senate committee tasked with investigating President Bill Clinton’s Whitewater land dealings took up 13 months and led to an 800-page final report.
In a recent interview, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who sits on the intelligence panel, said he believed the Russia probes could take “years.”
“Every few days there's a new revelation,” he said. “I just know we're in a full-fledged kind of a situation here that usually takes a while to work itself out.”
Across the Capitol, Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s leading the House Intelligence probe, told reporters his workload is expanding. “If I talk to one witness and they give me someone else’s name, I’ve got to go find that witness and talk to them,” he said. “You’ve got to run the daisy chain of witnesses out.”
Conaway’s Democratic counterpart, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, said there are still a significant number of witnesses to interview and “mountains” of documents to review. The House panel is also still trying to coordinate with Mueller as he takes charge of his own investigation into everything from financial connections between Russia and Trump to the president’s decision in May to fire Comey.
"I think we'll let the investigation dictate the timing," Schiff said.
Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), another member of the House Intelligence panel, said new revelations were slowing the probe: “Nobody was talking about obstruction of justice but, thank you to Donald Trump’s self-incrimination, we’re now talking about obstruction of justice.”
Burr’s Democratic counterpart, Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) was hesitant to say the intelligence panel’s probe could be wrapped up this year. “I’m not going to try to get into predictions at this point,” he said.
“We still have all the individuals that were affiliated with the campaign that have been mentioned in the press as having potential contacts or ties,” Warner added. “We’re still in the process of reviewing their documents.”
The pace is causing frustration among Trump’s Republican allies on Capitol Hill, including Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas, a member of the Intelligence Committee.
Asked if the panel’s probe could be wrapped up by the end of 2017, Cornyn responded: “It could be, if we didn't chase every rabbit trail imaginable.”
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and panel member Lindsey Graham are asking the FBI to turn over some closely guarded secrets: its applications for warrants to spy on people suspected of helping Russia meddle in last year’s presidential election.
Grassley’s panel is currently investigating Russia’s election interference, including the circumstances behind the firing of former FBI Director James Comey.
Story Continued Below
In a letter released Wednesday, Grassley (R-Iowa) and Graham (R-S.C.) asked the Justice Department and FBI to turn over all proposed and final applications for surveillance warrants submitted to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, along with the court’s responses, related to the FBI’s Russia probe.
The surveillance court is in charge of approving requests by intelligence agencies to spy on people suspected of acting as agents of foreign powers.
Their letter cites a report in The Guardian that the FBI applied for warrants last summer to monitor four members of the Trump campaign but that the surveillance court turned down the application, asking the FBI to narrow its request. The Washington Post later reported that the FBI obtained approval to monitor the communications of Carter Page, a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign.
“We are writing to request information regarding FISA-related actions by the FBI and the Justice Department in the course of the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election, including the investigations into allegations of collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians,” Grassley and Graham wrote in their letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe. FISA is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
Several Republicans used a Senate hearing Wednesday to admonish former President Barack Obama for failing to stop Russia's hacking of the 2016 presidential campaign, echoing a narrative that President Donald Trump has promoted in recent days.
A number of lawmakers went after Obama for not being more publicly vocal about the Russian-ordered hacking, which U.S. intelligence agencies said targeted campaigns, Democratic Party organizations and state election databases in the months before Election Day.
Story Continued Below
“He stood idly by in the 2016 election,” said Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton during the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, which focused on Russian attempts to meddle in European elections.
“I’m talking about somebody that could have done something while this was going on,” said Sen. Jim Risch, an Idaho Republican.
The attacks are not new — lawmakers on both sides of the aisle chastised Obama for inaction during the run-up to the election. But the accusations have gained additional steam following a recent Washington Post report that detailed the Obama administration's thought process behind the decision not to officially punish Moscow until the White House imposed sanctions in December.
The Obama administration did, however, publicly blame Russia for the digital intrusions at the DNC in October, one month after Obama privately scolded Russian President Vladimir Putin over his alleged actions.
The Post also reported that GOP leaders in Congress "resisted" the administration's pleas to join in warning the public about the Russian efforts, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) "voicing skepticism that the underlying intelligence truly supported the White House’s claims." And Trump has repeatedly expressed doubts that Russia was necessarily involved, speculating at one point that the cyberattacks on the Democrats could be the work of "somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.”
Still, Trump quickly picked up on the Post story. “Since the Obama Administration was told way before the 2016 Election that the Russians were meddling, why no action?” he tweeted.
The president repeated the attacks on Twitter over the next few days.
Witnesses at Wednesday’s hearing mostly agreed that, in retrospect, Obama could have done more.
“If you go back and look at it, the American people, in my judgment, deserved to know what was happening,” said Nicholas Burns, a top State Department official during the Obama era and a former ambassador to NATO during the George W. Bush administration. “We should have had a more immediate response that was more painful to the Russians.”
But not all Republicans said Obama was singularly to blame.
Maine Sen. Susan Collins argued that while Obama’s reaction was “behind-the-scenes, ineffective and tardy,” Trump has not been any better.
His administration, Collins said, “does not seem to have any strategy to deal with this.”
Collins' remarks mirror a line of attack Democrats have been using in recent weeks — that Trump has repeatedly failed to take the necessary steps to harden the country’s election systems against hacking in 2018 or 2020.
Burns strongly agreed, telling Risch that “the more pertinent question” is why Trump isn’t taking action now.
“To me,” Risch countered, “what’s more pertinent is what should have been done by the commander in chief at the time.”
Rep. Jason Chaffetz is leaving Congress behind for a life in television, Fox News announced on Wednesday.
Chaffetz will be a contributor to the network starting July 1, the day after he will officially resign from Congress. The Utah Republican will "offer political analysis across FNC and FOX Business Network’s (FBN) daytime and primetime programming,” the network said in a statement.
Story Continued Below
Chaffetz’s move to television has long been in the works, with the Washingtonian and others reporting weeks ago that he was headed to Fox News. The former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Chaffetz announced in April he would not seek re-election, and last month said he would resign his seat early to pursue opportunities in the private sector. Rep. Trey Gowdy has taken over the committee.
In a recent interview with The Hill, Chaffetz suggested members of Congress get a $2,500 stipend per month for housing, complaining that it’s hard for a member of Congress to afford a mortgage at home in Utah, kids in college and a place in Washington.
Though he’s leaving politics for now, Chaffetz said in that same interview that he isn’t closing the door on the possibility of a future run. The position with Fox News likely pays better than the salary for a member of Congress (which is around $170,000) and would keep Chaffetz in the public eye. A Fox News spokesperson did not immediately respond to questions about Chaffetz’s contract.
Jimmy Gomez, the California Democrat elected to succeed former Rep. Xavier Becerra in the House, will be sworn in on July 11, a senior Democratic aide said Wednesday.
Gomez was elected to the Los Angeles-based district on June 6 but his swearing-in has been postponed for weeks in what Gomez and allies have described as a “family conflict.”
Story Continued Below
Republicans have criticized Gomez for the delay, suggesting that he might be holding on to his current seat in the California Assembly to help Gov. Jerry Brown on a crucial vote in support of the state's cap-and-trade program.
The feud went national this week when House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) called Gomez’s delay an “abdication” of his responsibility. McCarthy noted in a letter to Gomez, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and California Secretary of State Alex Padilla that two other recently sworn-in members of Congress — Karen Handel of Georgia and Ralph Norman of South Carolina — were elected more recently than Gomez.
Becerra was tapped in December to become California’s attorney general in January, succeeding Kamala Harris, who was elected to the Senate.
Democrats punched back Wednesday, noting that the House has canceled recently scheduled Friday votes and has kept a relatively light floor schedule ahead of a weeklong Fourth of July recess.
“While we appreciate his interest in having a full complement of Democrats in Congress, perhaps his time would be better spent identifying exactly what and where the Republican agenda is,” said Pelosi spokeswoman Caroline Behringer. “Congressman-elect Gomez has been clear that he had an existing family conflict and couldn’t be sworn in this week.”
Gomez’s absence comes as the GOP-controlled House is grappling at the committee level with budget and appropriations measures and is awaiting the outcome of a Senate plan to replace Obamacare.
Gomez’s swearing in will give Democrats their 194th member.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise’s ongoing recovery in a Washington hospital after a shooting earlier this month is a sign that “our prayers are being answered,” House Speaker Paul Ryan said in an interview that aired Wednesday morning.
Scalise was one of five people injured June 14 when a gunman opened fire on a group of Republican lawmakers practicing for the annual congressional baseball game, which was played the next day. The majority whip was among the first to be hit and sustained some of the worst injuries, suffering a pierced hip, severe bleeding and damage to his internal organs.
Story Continued Below
The gunman, 66-year-old James T. Hodgkinson, was shot at the scene and later died.
As part of an interview with Ryan that was taped last Monday, Fox News host Brian Kilmeade was allowed to visit a GOP House leadership meeting, where the speaker said Scalise’s seat near the head of the conference table has been kept empty since the shooting.
“This is where he normally sits. We’re keeping his seat right here vacant until he returns,” Ryan said, gesturing to the empty seat to his right. “Most of us have gone to see him or we’ve spoken with him. And he’s making a very good recovery. So we’re just – our prayers are being answered.”
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) added: “I have known Steve 10 years before he ever got here. This is one of the strongest men you’ll ever meet. Very difficult obstacle, but I was just with him on Friday. Even the doctors will tell you how strong he’s been through all of this.”
Chuck Schumer fired off a warning at a caucus-wide retreat in January: Senate Republicans will try to pick off Democrats, one by one, to join the GOP effort to dismantle Obamacare.
If that happens, Schumer said in Shepherdstown, West Virginia, Democrats are finished. And so the 48-member caucus must stick together to try to save it.
Story Continued Below
With that message, relayed by a source familiar with the episode, the New York Democrat and newly minted minority leader swiftly united an often-squabbling caucus against efforts to repeal Obamacare.
Months later, it helped deliver a major, though perhaps temporary, victory Tuesday when Mitch McConnell’s bid to repeal Obamacare stalled — a cause that had similarly united Republicans for the seven years since the landmark health care bill became law.
Now, as Senate GOP leaders punt a key vote on their health care bill until after the July 4 recess, Schumer faces his next challenge in his first major legislative battle as the top Senate Democrat: keeping his party and grass-roots allies mobilized for at least two more weeks, as Republicans rewrite their plan and hunt for votes.
Schumer also has to protect his moderate members up for reelection in 2018, who already have faced repeated attacks from the National Republican Senatorial Committee over their pledge to shield Obamacare from efforts to unravel it. President Donald Trump has also previewed that playbook, tweeting Tuesday that a “failed, expensive and dangerous ObamaCare” was the Democrats’ legacy. Trump is already trying to blame Democrats for obstructionism for any problems with the health system.
“Complacency is not something that we can countenance. We have to continue letting people know how bad this is,” Schumer told reporters on Tuesday. “Despite the fact that they have an amazing message machine… on this issue, it has sunk through. Only 17 or 16 percent of Americans support Trumpcare. They are really getting the message. We’re gonna keep doing that.”
Liberal activists were not always certain they could count on him to aggressively take on the GOP.
But earlier this year, Schumer quickly worked to ensure all 48 members of the Democratic Caucus — from Joe Manchin of West Virginia to Bernie Sanders of Vermont — would take a firm stance against repealing Obamacare, a position that solidified in January as efforts to dismantle the law ramped up.
“When they saw that I — in no way, shape or form — could vote to hurt every part of my state, every demographic in my state, I think that gave him the [sign] that we’re going to be united on this,” Manchin said.
That included any attempts from Republicans, limited as they were, to quietly reach out to Democrats on potential bipartisan health care talks.
When GOP Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana — who had been shopping around their own Obamacare replacement proposal — asked centrist Democrats including Manchin, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Donnelly of Indiana to chat about health care, Schumer gave the moderates the green light to go ahead, as long as they stressed that complete repeal was off the table.
“Whenever we started to do what each of us do, which is try to go solve a problem, he would remind us that there would be a time for that, but first we had to be together and send a message: It’s not OK to unravel the health care system,” Sen. Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, one of Schumer’s closest allies, said. “And he’s been very effective.”
A consummate dealmaker at heart, Schumer has nonetheless embraced a role leading a restive Democratic Party eager to oppose President Donald Trump at essentially every turn.
The minority leader has added Sanders and other liberal upstarts such as Jeff Merkley of Oregon and Brian Schatz of Hawaii to his broader leadership team. Merkley holds a standing meeting with liberal groups such as MoveOn.org, Our Revolution, UltraViolet and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee every other Thursday, often relaying feedback from the coalition back to Schumer.
One Senate Democratic aide said of Schumer: “I think he’s realized the value of the activist communities out there.”
“We have a diverse caucus and he’s got just as much enthusiasm among the moderates as he does among the progressives,” Schatz said. “And I think he’s adapted very quickly to the age of Trump and the era of social media. These are difficult times but he’s the right leader for these difficult times.”
Schumer’s relationship with the left wasn’t always as warm as it became in the last weeks of the heated health care fight.
Liberal activists pressed Senate Democrats for a procedural blockade in protest of the GOP’s secretive Obamacare repeal process, but the caucus didn't ramp up obstruction tactics until after passage of a bipartisan Russia sanctions bill. Another provocative maneuver, to shut down committee hearings, could have disrupted high profile testimonies, particularly in the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Angel Padilla, policy director at the anti-Trump group Indivisible, said activists “were really nervous” as they first urged Democratic senators to ramp up the opposition: “We thought, ‘They’re not going to do it because they’re Democrats and they don’t do this stuff.’”
After Democrats held their first Monday night talk-a-thon savaging the Republican repeal bill last week, however, activists rallied to their side — while constantly nudging for more resistance.
Democratic leaders “are learning to be receptive to where people are,” said Center for American Progress Action Fund campaign director Emily Tisch Sussman. “Understandably, they still have some deference to process, particularly in the Senate versus the House. … So they’re getting there.”
Still, the unity Schumer cultivated helped Democrats more easily exploit the divisions in the Republican Conference, whose members ranged from those who were fretful that dismantling Obamacare would harm their constituents to those who were frustrated that the repeal didn’t go far enough.
Schumer and the Democrats were handed some gifts along the way, including a private comment made by Trump himself that the House version of Obamacare repeal was “mean.” They also set out a goal of defeating the health care bill on a procedural vote to begin debate, rather than filibustering the bill with endless amendments once it got to the floor, as activists initially sought.
The New York Democrat is well aware that heeding the ornery spirit of the liberal grass roots can bring huge energy to Democrats’ push to hamper Trump’s agenda. Now that the GOP has postponed the repeal vote, activists are expecting him to not forget that lesson.
“The moment Democrats announced they were going to start shutting down business as usual in the Senate, health care leapt back onto the front page of newspapers, Republicans started falling off the bill,” MoveOn Washington director Ben Wikler said in an interview. “We are optimistic that Democrats have seen the effects of standing and fighting and are going to keep doing it.”
Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey, warned that the postponed vote could prove a temporary victory if Republicans regroup after the Fourth of July recess. And he urged the Democratic base to maintain this week’s level of energy and public pressure.
“I just hope that we use this time to wake more Americans up” to the consequences of Obamacare repeal, he said in an interview. “One of the biggest dangers we have right now is complacency, is silence, is people sitting on the sidelines.”
Mitch McConnell has little margin for error as he tries to salvage the Senate’s Obamacare repeal effort over the July 4 break.
The majority leader has to craft a compromise that tears down enough of Obamacare to satisfy the party’s conservative wing, while also ensuring the health benefits are generous enough to keep skeptical moderates in line. He can lose just two of the 52 Republican votes, and use Vice President Mike Pence as a tie-breaker.
Story Continued Below
Here are the five items on McConnell’s menu:
The Medicaid mess
The Senate health care bill would gut the safety net program, rolling back Obamacare’s expanded coverage and slashing its funding by $772 billion over a decade. And that’s perhaps the main obstacle facing McConnell as he tries to win over a crucial bloc of moderate GOP senators.
Republican leaders may try to soften the blow to Medicaid to win over several holdouts by considering lengthening the phase-out of generous funding for Medicaid expansion and easing the cap on the whole program’s funding. Senate Republicans hailing from expansion states — like vulnerable Nevada Sen. Dean Heller and key swing vote Rob Portman of Ohio — have pushed for a phase-out as long as seven years, far longer than the bill’s current three-year track.
McConnell may also float the potential for excluding certain groups from the program’s funding limits, in a bid to maintain coverage for some of the neediest Americans and relieve the financial burden on cash-strapped states.
But changes along those lines would put GOP leaders at risk of losing key conservatives who see Medicaid spending as out of control. Sen. Pat Toomey has led the charge to end the program’s entitlement status, with support from several other senators eager to limit Medicaid’s reach.
“Medicaid was initially set up to help the poor, women, children and the disabled,” Sen. John Barrasso of Wyoming said. “It has been taken in a direction way different than that."
The battle over Obamacare's subsidies
McConnell is also likely to weigh making the Senate bill’s tax credits more generous to alleviate concerns that poorer and older people wouldn’t get enough aid to purchase insurance on the individual market.
The current bill scales back those subsidies and cuts off eligibility at 350 percent of the federal poverty line, compared with Obamacare’s 400-percent threshold. The restructuring disproportionately benefits younger and healthier enrollees, the Congressional Budget Office projected Monday, raising concerns that older and poorer patients would be forced to pay significantly more for health care, or go without.
But Republican leaders can easily dial those subsidies back up if they are key to winning over swing votes like Sens. Susan Collins or Lisa Murkowski.
“I’m very concerned about the impact on premiums generally, particularly for that very vulnerable group between age 50 and 64,” Collins said.
What may not be so easy: Getting the conservative wing to go along with the bigger tax credits. Sen. Rand Paul — perhaps the most consistent opponent of the bill — has railed against the subsidies as just a perpetuation of Obamacare. Another holdout, Sen. Ron Johnson wants to eliminate that financial aid altogether.
Rolling back Obamacare regulations
Bringing conservatives back into the fold starts with repealing as much of Obamacare as possible — and that means doing more to gut the health law’s regulatory structure.
Paul and Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah have pushed to roll back all the standards governing health insurance plans, including protections barring insurers from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions. And Republican leaders are already halfway there: The Senate bill lets states waive additional Obamacare rules in a bid to further lower premiums.
“I have been very clear from the beginning how to get my vote,” Cruz said.
But conservatives’ remaining demands are extensive, and include adding provisions — such as medical malpractice reform and allowing insurers to sell across state lines — that could disqualify the bill under the Senate’s strict reconciliation rules that are essential if McConnell is to pass the bill with a simple majority.
If he eliminates Obamacare’s protections for sick Americans, McConnell also risks inviting the backlash that nearly doomed the House GOP’s repeal bill. That controversy prompted Sen. Bill Cassidy to declare he wouldn’t support any bill that leaves the sick without access to care. And if moderate GOP senators are already worried about whether the bill maintains coverage for the most vulnerable, further gutting Obamacare’s protections likely won’t get them any closer to “yes.”
The Planned Parenthood problem
The easiest tweak Senate Republicans can make to the bill could also be among its most controversial: stripping out a provision that defunds Planned Parenthood for one year.
Collins and Murkowski — who have long been critical of zeroing out the organization’s funding — are drafting an amendment that would preserve the funds. Incorporating that into the Senate’s revised bill could go a long way toward winning those two crucial moderates. It would also come at little tangible economic cost since it has no effect on the rest of the bill.
But it risks upsetting the vast majority of Republican senators who saw this as their chance to finally cut Planned Parenthood’s funding after multiple failed attempts to do so. McConnell would have to take his colleagues' temperature before he makes any final decision and weigh whether he can endure the additional backlash from influential anti-abortion groups.
Adding enticements, including more money to combat opioid abuse
McConnell has roughly $188 billion to spend on sweeteners to the health care bill, thanks to CBO’s estimate that it would reduce the deficit by far more than the House-passed version of repeal. That gives him room to dole out aid for senators’ pet issues in hopes of winning their votes, and it could go a long way toward addressing some moderates' concerns.
Boosting funding to fight the opioid epidemic ravaging many states would likely be a strong inducement for holdouts like Ohio’s Portman and West Virginia’s Shelley Moore Capito.
“This bill will not ensure access to affordable health care in West Virginia, does not do enough to combat the opioid epidemic that is devastating my state, cuts traditional Medicaid too deeply, and harms rural health care providers,” Capito said in a statement laying out her complaints about the legislation.
Republican leaders could also funnel more money into tax credits to reduce the burden of premiums in Alaska’s particularly expensive individual market to lock in Murkowski’s vote, and respond to a range of asks from senators across the spectrum.
Sen. Marco Rubio, for example, said he’s mulling his own set of proposals aimed at shoring up Florida’s Medicaid and individual markets. Of course, sweeteners targeted to specific senators could sow discontent among the rest of the conference, especially those keen on preserving the bill’s deficit savings. That puts further pressure on McConnell to spend his billions wisely.
A pro-Trump outside group will pull its ads assailing GOP Sen. Dean Heller over his opposition to the now stalled Obamacare repeal bill — a move that follows massive backlash from senior Republicans who called on the organization to stop attacking the Nevadan.
America First Policies had begun airing TV and radio ads on Tuesday savaging Heller for his planned ‘No’ vote, with spots charging that Heller had broken his “promise” to voters that he would dismantle Obamacare — a stunning attack on a member of the president’s own party and the most vulnerable Republican up for re-election in 2018.
Story Continued Below
But on Tuesday evening — just a few hours after the TV and radio ads went up and after Senate Republicans tossed plans to vote on the legislation this week — the group, which is staffed with several of the president’s top campaign aides, decided to stop running the ads, two senior Republicans familiar with the decision told POLITICO.
An America First Policies official said the decision followed Heller’s decision to appear at the White House with other Republicans on Tuesday, arguing that it was evidence that he was open to negotiating on the bill.
The purpose of launching the campaign, this official argued, was to pressure Heller into coming to the negotiating table — which he'd now done.
Anger over the TV ads became a topic of discussion at the White House meeting, with Heller himself raising them as a point of concern, according to a spokeswoman for the Nevada senator.
“Let’s just say that I would say it was maybe a background issue” during the meeting, said South Dakota Sen. John Thune.
Since the group announced the offensive on Friday, it has come under fire from Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who privately fumed that the attack would make it harder to get Heller’s support. McConnell’s political team also reached out to the group, pleading with them to stop the commercials.
A number of senior Republicans, including former top officials at the National Republican Senatorial Committee, also spoke out against the barrage, saying it would make Heller’s already difficult re-election even tougher.
Seung Min Kim contributed to this report.
Longtime Donald Trump associate Roger Stone is set to appear July 24 before the House Intelligence Committee, which is examining contacts between Russia and the Trump presidential campaign, according to Stone’s attorney.
The hearing will be closed, said Stone’s lawyer, Robert Buschel. He said his client had asked for a public hearing on Capitol Hill to address his communications last year with Moscow-linked hackers and WikiLeaks, which published personal emails stolen from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.
Story Continued Below
“We tried really hard,” Buschel said, adding that he was told by the GOP-led House panel, “They’re done with public.”
Podesta testified Tuesday before the committee.
As he left his interview, Podesta was asked if the Obama administration had done enough to counter Russia’s election interference. “I think they were trying to make the best judgments they could on behalf of the American people,” he said.
In an email, Stone told POLITICO he wanted to testify specifically to counter Podesta.
“With John Podesta appearing before the committee I do feel it is essential that I have the opportunity to rebut his serial lies,” Stone said in an email. “I may not be able to sue a member of Congress but I sure as hell can sue the f--- out of Podesta. The claim that I had knowledge of the hacking of his email by WikiLeaks in advance is a demonstrable lie.”
Podesta did not respond to a later request for comment.
The committee had planned to interview Stone and others this month but Democrats put the hearings on hold amid a public spat between committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking member Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.).
A spokeswoman for Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), the Republican leader of the House Intelligence Committee probe, declined comment about Stone’s scheduled appearance.
Stone, a Republican operative and one of the youngest members of Richard Nixon’s infamous 1972 reelection campaign, has been among the most public of Trump’s current or former aides in discussing his communications with Russia-linked affiliates. He talked in March about being in touch with “Guccifer 2.0” — the hacker persona that U.S. intelligence officials say is a Russian front for channeling stolen documents but who Stone insists is not a Moscow asset — and boasted during the campaign about his contact with WikiLeaks.
Stone predicted last summer on Twitter that there would be an October surprise that would disrupt Clinton’s campaign, and he even suggested Podesta would face scandal shortly before the Democrat’s emails started surfacing on WikiLeaks.
Podesta confirmed in October 2016 that he’d been in touch with the FBI as it probed the hack. Stone has long said he’s willing to talk to the FBI, but Buschel said neither he nor his client had heard yet heard from federal agents or Robert Mueller, the special prosecutor appointed last month by the Justice Department to investigate possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia.
Stone has been “cooperating” with Senate and House investigators who have demanded documents related to the 2016 campaign, Buschel said. He also expects a transcript of his appearance before the House panel to be made public. “I’m sure Roger will be happy to tell you whatever he says,” he said. “I don’t think there will be much mystery after that.”
The stock value of the Australian biotech firm Rep. Chris Collins championed to fellow lawmakers plummeted on Tuesday, costing the New York Republican $17 million as investigators continue probing his relationship with the firm.
Innate Immunotherapeutic shares dropped more than 90 percent on Tuesday to 5 cents when markets closed in Australia. The tumultuous fall of the company's stock followed an announcement that the firm's star pharmaceutical drug for multiple sclerosis failed to pass clinical trials.
Story Continued Below
Collins’ relationship with the company has raised eyebrows in recent months. And the Office of Congressional Ethics is currently investigating whether Collins engaged in insider trading.
The longtime President Donald Trump supporter allegedly tipped off a number of lawmakers and Buffalo-area leaders to invest in the company, which sold Collins' political acquaintances discounted shares that soared after their investments. Collins, who is the company’s largest shareholder and sits on the firm’s board, had also helped craft legislation to speed clinical trials, which would theoretically benefit Innate.
The Collins stock controversy almost sank ex-Rep. Tom Price’s nomination to lead the Health and Human Services Department after it was reported that the Georgia Republican and former Budget chairman had invested in Innate as well. Price sold his shares earlier this year for $250,000, after an initial $94,000 investment.
Collins in a statement Tuesday said that he was disappointed in the news but “hopeful that someday we can find a treatment for this the terrible disease of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis.”
“After 14 years of hard work, substantial investment and dramatic progress, it is obvious that we have more to do,” he said. “For those that invested in Innate including me, we all were sophisticated investors who were aware of the inherent risk.”
A source close to the company said the $17 million loss was only on paper and that Collins' actual loses are just over $5 million, the amount he invested about 15 years ago when he first encountered the firm. The source said he “never sold a share” in Innate.
According to financial disclosure forms, Collins is worth upwards of $40 million — or at least he was before the Innate stock plummeted.
It is unclear how much lawmakers who invested in the company have lost overall. Collins had recruited Reps. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Mike Conaway (R-Texas) and Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.) to invest money in the company.
Republican senators’ offices say they’re getting a flood of calls from voters worried about the GOP Obamacare repeal bill, potentially further complicating Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s attempt to muscle the legislation through this week.
Chris Gallegos, communications director for Mississippi Sen. Thad Cochran, who has so far not staked out a hard position on the legislation, said calls from constituents since the bill's release last week have mainly been negative.
Story Continued Below
“Since last Thursday, the Cochran offices have received approximately 224 constituent calls against and two in favor of discussion draft of the healthcare bill,” Gallegos wrote in an email Monday.
The office of Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), who has voiced support for the bill, reported similar call proportions. His communications director, Lindsay Nothern, said the office has also gotten word that there will be an organized protest on Wednesday outside their Boise office to oppose the bill.
“We’ve had several phone calls — there’s still a mix,” Nothern said. “But they probably run stronger against the Republican bill than for it. Most of them want to see changes in the bill.”
He said the majority of calls concerned Medicaid, though Nothern did not specify any numbers when asked.
Jill Gerber, communications manager for Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who has not yet expressed a clear opinion on the bill, also did not provide statistics, though she said Iowans who have reached out expressed various opinions on the topic.
“Grassley’s office has had an uptick in calls since the Senate discussion draft bill came out last Thursday,” Gerber said. “In general, over the past few weeks, there’s been a lot of contact to the office about health care.”
She said some of the people calling were from out of state.
The strong constituent interest comes as the bill appears to be in a precarious position, with at least four Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Dean Heller of Nevada and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin — signaling they could oppose a key procedural vote that is expected to occur Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday.
That would put the GOP and President Donald Trump well short of the votes needed to advance the bill, and McConnell has indicated he’s ready to move on to tax reform if this Obamacare repeal push collapses.
Democrats, eager to thwart Republicans, have been highlighting the intense concerns from voters worried about Medicaid cuts, premium spikes and coverage losses.
Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said in an interview Monday with the nonpartisan group Connecticut American Association of Retired Persons that he and his constituents openly oppose the bill.
“When I looked at my phone calls last week, I had received hundreds of calls — I hadn't received a single phone call in favor of it,” Murphy said. “I've never seen a bill this important with no one in favor of it.”
His office did not respond to a request for comment on the exact numbers of constituent responses he received.
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) appeared to be the first to publicly report constituent statistics, and a visual she posted on Twitter said that of the 5,569 constituents who had called her office since January about repealing the Affordable Care Act, 5,461 opposed doing away with it.
“Since January, Granite Staters have been contacting my office abt the GOP #ACA repeal,” Shaheen tweeted on June 21, a day before the Senate health care bill was released. “Of >5500 notes, 98% are against it #AmericaSpeaksOut.”
Democratic Sens. Mark Warner of Virginia, Ben Cardin of Maryland,  Dick Durbin of Illinois,  Tom Udall of New Mexico, Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada and Joe Manchin of West Virginia also tweeted statistics about responses from their constituents, but no GOP senators appeared to have done so as of Monday, even after Senate Minority Whip Durbin’s request for statistics.
“I’ve gotten 5,000 letters and more than 2,000 calls opposing Senate’s #Trumpcare just this week,” he tweeted. “@SenateGop what are your numbers?"
Mitch McConnell is delivering an urgent warning to staffers, Republican senators and even the president himself: If Obamacare repeal fails this week, the GOP will lose all leverage and be forced to work with Chuck Schumer.
President Donald Trump continued to float the possibility on Monday that Congress and the White House would simply let Obamacare’s individual markets collapse if the GOP’s repeal effort goes down later this week. But McConnell called up Trump recently, according to people with knowledge of the call, to deliver a reality check.
Story Continued Below
Voters expect Republicans to deliver on their long-held promise to repeal the law, McConnell said, according to those people. And failing to repeal the law would mean the GOP would lose its opportunity to do a partisan rewrite of the law that could scale back Medicaid spending, cut Obamacare’s taxes and repeal a host of industry mandates.
Instead, Republicans would be forced to enter into bipartisan negotiations with Democrats to save failing insurance markets.
McConnell delivered a similar warning Monday to Republican senators at his leadership meeting and to top GOP staffers, warning that Democrats will want to retain as much of Obamacare as possible in a bipartisan negotiation, according to Republican aides.
“If we fail, we’re going to be negotiating with [Democratic Leader] Chuck Schumer,” said one Republican staffer.
McConnell’s motivational words are aimed at reviving support for his bill to repeal the health care law through the party-line reconciliation method this week. GOP leaders are hunting for votes to even start debate on the bill, with at least four Republicans currently opposed to the legislation as written and many more undecided.
Republicans will have a party lunch on Tuesday that will offer a window into the repeal bill’s prospects and potential deal-making to be done.
McConnell still has about $188 billion in funds that he could use to shore up the bill’s support by offering Republicans money to fight opioid abuse, as well as several more proposals he could include to attract conservative support, particularly the expansion of health savings accounts to woo the party’s right flank.
The Senate is likely to vote on kicking off floor debate on the bill on Wednesday, though it could occur on Tuesday. Vice President Mike Pence will dine with wavering Republican senators on Tuesday night, which could boost the bill’s prospects for a Wednesday vote.
McConnell has told senators for weeks that he fears a failed repeal effort would be followed by a large bailout of the insurance industry that would be supported by moderate Republicans and Democrats, per people familiar with his thinking. And McConnell would be content to not touch Obamacare repeal again if this bill failed.
Trump has repeatedly weighed taking away cost-sharing subsidies and has privately told activists and administration officials that Democrats would own the failure of Obamacare and that it could be a political boon for Republicans.
But some of his senior officials believe the White House would take at least some of the blame if markets imploded.
If the bill fails, Schumer (D-N.Y.) and his members would be empowered to negotiate with centrist Republicans to save the flailing markets. A trio of Democratic senators met with some Republicans this spring to discuss a bipartisan proposal to shore up the nation’s health care system, but there are many elements of the GOP’s bill that those Democrats will not support.
“The price of admission for me sitting down with you is I’m not willing to [per capita] block grant Medicaid and eliminate Medicaid expansion,” said Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), recalling her message to those Republicans.
With Republican-leadership backed legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare struggling to gain traction in the Senate, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan expressed confidence in an interview that aired Tuesday morning that his GOP colleagues on the other side of Capitol Hill would find enough votes to pass the bill.
“It's the biggest signature issue we have, and it's the biggest promise we’ve ever made in the modern era. We said if we get elected, we will repeal and replace Obamacare,” Ryan told Fox News’ “Fox & Friends” in a pretaped interview. “We did this in the House. It's now the Senate's turn. I think they’re going to do it.”
Story Continued Below
Despite Ryan’s optimism, the future of the Senate’s measure is far from certain. At least five GOP senators have expressed their opposition to the bill, and some have gone so far as to signal that they could block a procedural vote on the measure expected Tuesday or Wednesday.
Republicans cannot afford to lose more than two votes on the bill and still have it pass. The legislation is not expected to receive any support from Democrats, who have been roundly critical of it.
Should Senate Republicans manage to muster enough support to pass the repeal-and-replace bill, the legislation would still need to be melded with the version that narrowly passed the House in May.
Ryan’s confidence that the Senate will ultimately pass its legislation despite its wavering support among the Republican rank and file could be based at least in part on his own experience shepherding through a House version of the bill that was unable to completely unify the GOP.
Republican leaders in the House struggled throughout the negotiation process to strike a compromise between arch-conservative members and more moderate ones, forcing Ryan at one point to cancel a vote on the bill when it became clear that there was not enough support among GOP members to pass it. A second version of the bill later passed, albeit by just a handful of votes.
“We were elected to solve people's problems, to improve people's lives. Fixing health care is a big part of that,” Ryan said. “We have an opportunity in front of us. We are making good progress on these things. We campaigned on doing serious things with this president. It's going to take us time to do those things. But [if] we get this done, this will be the most productive presidency and Congress in our lifetimes.”
White House and Capitol Hill officials are exploring potential deals to divvy up billions of dollars to individual senators’ priorities in a wide-ranging bid to secure votes for the imperiled GOP health care bill.
A Congressional Budget Office score that projected 22 million fewer Americans would have insurance under the plan sent some members fleeing Monday and left the bill in jeopardy of failing to have enough votes to even be called to the Senate floor this week.
Story Continued Below
But Republicans in the White House and in Congress were pleasantly surprised that the bill included more savings than they expected — and are trying to figure out if they can dole it out for votes.
The Senate has about $188 billion to play with.
Among the possible changes: More spending for health savings accounts to appease conservatives such as Sen. Ted Cruz and Sen. Mike Lee, according to three people familiar with the matter, and some additional Medicaid and opioid spending for moderates.
"We are still working with leadership to change the base bill," a Lee aide said.
Lee, Cruz and others on the right have been looking to wipe out as much of Obamacare as possible and replace it with health savings accounts, group plans and selling insurance across state lines, among other ideas. It’s not clear whether the Senate parliamentarian would allow all of those proposals through under strict reconciliation rules. And Lee will likely require far more dramatic changes to be won over.
Meanwhile, senators from Medicaid expansion states huddled after the CBO score revealed the nearly $200 billion in savings to see whether they could get GOP leaders to put more money into Medicaid and to thwart drug addiction. Those modifications might take place on the Senate floor, but Republicans are divided on how to use the money.
Negotiations are likely to continue quickly behind the scenes over the next 24 hours and could draw the ire of good government groups and advocates. Republicans hammered Democrats for supposedly crafting Obamacare in secret seven years ago and for handing out goodies to wavering Democratic senators.
But the GOP bill has been roundly criticized for being negotiated and written in secret — and the final terms are leaving even some Republicans queasy.
One Senate aide said that Tuesday would be "all about side deals," and another person familiar with the discussions said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had already begun talking about private deals.
"There's no one-size-fits-all to getting these people on board," said one White House official. "Each of them want different things, and we have to figure out if there is a path."
Defenders of the bill note that Obamacare's markets are struggling and the coverage losses are partially due to people choosing not to buy coverage, because there would no longer be a government mandate.
Any changes to appease moderates could face severe blowback from conservatives.
“There are some people who have some designs on that,” said Sen. John Thune, a South Dakota Republican. “It wouldn’t be a bad thing if we put the money toward deficit reduction."
The bill remains in peril. It is also unclear whether there is enough money to give out that could win over the divided GOP Conference.
Time is of the essence.
McConnell has said he wants a vote this week no matter what, even as some White House officials have said they wouldn't mind a delay and are fearful the votes aren't there with the current legislation.
“You could make an argument for delaying it if you could get a better policy, but this is the best we could do to satisfy all the different aspects of our conferences,” Thune said.
“There’s no reason not to get this done this week,” said Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri. “And the CBO score was a little better than I thought it would be.”
White House officials said they were increasingly looking to Sens. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Dean Heller (R-Nev.) — and if the two maintained their opposition, the bill was likely dead. Senate leadership has largely written off Paul, and a Trump outside group has begun attacking Heller, drawing some head-scratching from Senate aides.
Tim Alberta contributed to this report.
Sen. Dean Heller’s harsh critique of the Republican effort to kill Obamacare has broken open a Democratic divide — between those who want to unseat him and those who prefer to lock in his "no" vote first to save the health care law.
The Nevada Republican gave Democrats a gift on Friday when he issued a stinging analysis of the Senate' GOP health plan and signaled he may vote against it. His reward: vicious reviews from Democrats who sense a chance to defeat him in 2018.
Story Continued Below
Heller was "cowardly," not courageous, argued Democratic super PAC American Bridge. He's "taking marching orders" from party bosses in Washington, said Senate Democrats' campaign arm. Nevada Democrats assailed his comments as "desperate," and EMILY's List called him "utterly spineless."
The assault, though, isn’t sitting well with some of the party's staunchest Obamacare defenders. Heller's defiance of GOP leadership may help Democrats stave off Republican efforts to gut the seven-year-old health care law this week. Attacking one of the few Republicans likely to break ranks feels disturbingly off-key, some Obamacare backers argued.
"Democrats look awfully disingenuous by attacking him for opposing a terrible plan that would punish his state and constituents," said David Axelrod, a top adviser to former President Barack Obama. "If Dean Heller stops a disaster for his state and people across the country, I'm not going to question his motives."
The tension over how to handle Heller reflects a broader conflict for the party. Democrats in Congress are desperate to stop a GOP health care push they warn will cause devastation for millions of families. But their outside allies tasked with chipping away at GOP control of Washington are solely focused on making vulnerable Republicans pay for the controversial bill.
To liberal advocacy groups focused primarily on preserving Obamacare, Heller's remarks Friday came as welcome news.
“We do think we need to praise members when they do something right, for whatever reason,” said Angel Padilla, policy director at Indivisible, which has waged a national campaign to thwart Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare.
“There are plenty of reasons to try to replace Heller,” Padilla added, “but on this he’s done the right thing.”
Another longtime Obama ally, Jesse Lehrich, called Democratic attacks on Heller "offensive" at a time when "thousands of lives are on the line."
Groups like the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and American Bridge have their focus elsewhere — on the broader political effort to win back the Senate. In that effort, Heller is the most obvious target. He's the only Republican up for reelection in 2018 who hails from a state won by Hillary Clinton, and he's Democrats' best — if not only — shot to flip a GOP-held Senate seat next year.
"Some just are fighting for this one vote, but we're not just after his vote, we're also exposing his motivation," said one Democratic operative working to defeat Heller. "We're just looking at a slightly longer game here. We are going to hold him accountable through this vote and through November 2018."
Democratic strategists note Heller has voted to repeal Obamacare for years.
"Sen. Heller has supported the proposals this plan contains and he’s earned a reputation for saying anything that’ll help him out in the moment," said Lauren Passalacqua, spokeswoman for the DSCC. "Those who know him best think he was protecting himself with his caveats, equivocations and refusal to rule out ending the Medicaid expansion."
Asked about the Democrats' debate over how to handle his position, Heller smiled broadly but declined to comment.
But Heller knows he's got a perilous path to reelection. He has already drawn a Democratic challenger, Rep. Jacky Rosen, and his maneuvering on the health care bill may be the defining issue of the race. His public criticism of the Senate GOP bill has already earned him scorn from his own party, too. Conservatives blasted his critique and a pro-Trump PAC even ran ads linking him to House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Democratic operatives note that Republicans offered no quarter to Democrats who bucked their party on Obamacare in 2010. The blue dog coalition of conservative Democrats that attempted to survive the Obamacare backlash that year was largely wiped out, and Republicans didn't distinguish between those who backed the health care bill and those who didn't.
"Not one of them was ever given credit for it by one Republican," said a Democratic strategist involved in the current health care fight. "They would say 'oh bulls--t, they voted for Pelosi for speaker.'"
In that tradition, Democrats say they intend to call out Heller for his lengthy record of advocating for Obamacare repeal before 2017 and for backing the process that has allowed Republicans to advance repeal measures to this point. His concerns now, they argue, are just about self-preservation.
Even those suggesting Democrats should ease up on Heller in the short term agree he should be watched with a wary eye.
"He may yet yield to enormous pressure from his own party, trade his vote for Yucca Mountain and call it a win," Axelrod said, referencing longtime efforts by Nevada political leaders to block a nuclear waste site in their state.
Indivisible's Padilla, too, urged Democrats not to let Heller "off the hook" in case he reverses course. And others on the left agreed.
“Until we see and hear the 'No' votes from the floor with our own eyes and ears, we are going to keep all out pressure on key Republican senators across all channels,” said Murshed Zaheed, political director at the liberal group CREDO Action, in a statement.
But the party's most stalwart defenders of Obamacare say if Heller follows through and votes against the GOP health care bill, it doesn't really matter whether his motives were about political survival or policy. And they believe his opposition will encourage other moderate Republicans to withhold their support.
"We saw a Republican senator saying exactly the same things about Mitch McConnell's health care bill that Democrats have been saying ... That's a big deal," said one Democratic operative involved in the health care fight, who hopes it could put pressure on other swing GOP votes like West Virginia's Shelley Moore Capito and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski.
“But those senators have less incentive to take that stand if Democratic groups are just going to engage in shameless partisan hackery and slam them anyway," he added.
Democratic Reps. John Conyers of Michigan and Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico are under scrutiny by the House Ethics Committee for alleged violations, although both men strongly deny any wrongdoing.
The allegation against Lujan is tied to the Democratic "sit-in" on the House floor in June 2016. Conyers has come under review for his interaction with a former top aide who pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property.
Story Continued Below
And Michael Collins, chief of staff for Rep. John Lewis, is also under investigation by the Ethics panel following a complaint from a conservative watchdog group over allegedly serving improperly as the Georgia Democrat's campaign treasurer and top aide at the same time.
All three cases were disclosed today following referrals from the Office of Congressional Ethics. The Ethics Committee has another 45 days to decide to go ahead with full investigations or handle the case in another manner.
The Ethics Committee review of Lujan was spurred by a complaint filed by a right-leaning group, the Foundation for Accountability and Civic Trust, with OCE. The same organization filed the complaint against Collins.
House Democrats staged a high-profile "sit in" on the House floor last year when Republicans refused to allow votes on several gun-related measures. The dramatic move caught national attention; after Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) adjourned the House and C-Span cameras stopped showing what was happening on the floor, Democratic lawmakers streamed it on their phones.
The group filing the complaint, FACT, alleged Democrats improperly used images of themselves on the floor during the protest in fundraising appeals. House rules prohibit using official resources for political activities. Lujan sent out a fundrainsing pitch with a photo of him on the floor during the sit-in. FACT filed a complaint with OCE over this fundraising pitch, as well as other by additional Democratic lawmakers. OCE voted to refer the matter to the Ethics Committee.
"This announcement is the result of a frivolous complaint, filed by a highly partisan outside group about activities during the sit-in last year — a complaint that is without merit," said Joe Shoemaker, Lujan's communications director, in a statement. "Congressman Luján is committed to abiding by House rules, is confident he has done so in this case, and looks forward to a timely resolution by the Ethics Committee.”
The Conyers case has to do with Cynthia Martin, formerly his top aide. Martin pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property in April 2016. Martin was mistakenly routed $16,500 in deposits to her credit union account by another customer. Martin refused to return the money and was later charged with a crime. She pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and was placed on leave by Conyers. The Ethics Committee review involves her departure from Conyers' staff.
According to an OCE referral, "From April to August 2016, Cynthia Martin received compensation from the House of Representatives at a time when she may no longer have been working for the House. If Ms. Martin accepted compensation that was not commensurate with the work she was performing, then she may have violated House rules and standards of conduct."
Martin formally left the House payroll on Sept. 30, 2016.
"This is not a new controversy, but rather involves the same matter that the Office of Congressional Ethics released back in February," said a Conyers' spokeswoman. "Mr. Conyers’ office has worked diligently at all times to comply with the rules, is cooperating with the Ethics Committee, and is confident that this matter can be swiftly resolved."
Collins and Lewis have denied any wrongdoing in how the Georgia Democrat's top aide handled his dual role as campaign treasurer and chief of staff. Collins is no longer the campaign treasurer, according to Federal Election Commission records.
"Mr. Collins would like reporters to refer to the committee’s release which states 'the mere fact of a referral or an extension, and the mandatory disclosure of such an extension…does not itself indicate that any violation has occurred,'" said a statement from Brenda Jones, Lewis' communications director. "Mr. Collins respects the process of ethics review and is cooperating with the committee."
Carter Page, a former Donald Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, said Monday he’s been interviewed by the FBI as part of its investigation into Russia’s election meddling.
The interviews, which he called “extensive discussions,” came prior to James Comey’s firing as FBI director in May, Page said. Page, an energy consultant who traveled to Moscow last summer to deliver a speech while advising the Trump campaign, has become a target of the FBI investigation, along with the probes being pursued by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which are all looking into the possibility of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
Story Continued Below
“During my extensive discussions with the FBI agents just weeks before Comey’s departure, they acknowledged that I’m a loyal American veteran but indicated that their ‘management’ was concerned that I did not believe the conclusions of the fake January 6 intelligence report,” Page said in a statement, referring to the public assessment by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia sought to sway the presidential election in Trump’s favor.
“I told them that I learned the lessons from the intelligence failures of the original Dodgy Dossier from 2003 which cost this country thousands of service members lives and over a trillion dollars,” he continued. “Our frank and open conversations gave me confidence that there are still logical, honest individuals at the Bureau who respect civil rights and the Constitution, despite the recent devastating impact on our democracy by self-centered politicians at the top of the Clinton-Obama-Comey regime.”
Page has previously claimed to be the victim of a civil-rights conspiracy because of possible government surveillance of his communications.
The Washington Post first reported that he had been interviewed by the FBI.
The House Budget Committee is planning to unveil a long-awaited budget resolution next week calling for a spending boost to the Pentagon alongside cuts to domestic programs, despite lingering disputes within the GOP conference.
House budget writers reached a tentative agreement this afternoon to move ahead with a resolution that would set spending levels at $511 billion for domestic programs and $621 billion for defense, two lawmakers confirmed. Compared to current law, that would amount to a $72 billion boost for defense and a $4 billion cut for domestic spending.
Story Continued Below
The budget resolution would also instruct GOP committees to cut $150 billion from mandatory programs over a decade. Those cuts, while not specified in the budget, would be intended to target anti-poverty programs, like food stamps and disability insurance, according to members.
“We’d like to mark up next week, next Wednesday,” senior member Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) said, acknowledging the committee still has “a few i's to dot and t's to cross.”
The mandatory spending cuts — which, unlike the rest of the budget proposal, would actually become law — have been among the most controversial pieces of this year's GOP budget. The cuts would be included as reconciliation instructions, alongside tax reform, which means the legislation could dodge the Senate's filibuster.
Rep. Mark Sanford, who sits on the committee, said he was pushing right up until the end for members to aim for far more spending cuts.
"Think about how small $150 billion over 10 years is," he told reporters after the meeting. "To say that we're doing robust work in deficit reduction I don't think is the case."
The defense spending comes in above the Trump administration's proposal of $603 billion but falls short of the $640 billion members of the House Armed Services Committee demanded. Those lawmakers fought for the $640 billion spending levels in this morning's House GOP conference meeting.
“It’s not everything the defense people want, but it’s certainly a substantial increase for them," Cole said. "If you’re a non-defense appropriator, you don’t like that cut, but it’s not an unreasonable cut."
House GOP leaders have not yet given the official approval, Cole added, though he said he believes they will sign.
A spokesman for the House Budget Committee said nothing has been finalized.
The fractious House Republican Conference is struggling to unite behind a plan to pass budget and spending bills, divided over policy priorities as well as basic questions of process.
Lawmakers emerged from a closed-door meeting Wednesday morning with virtually no consensus on how to proceed. And disagreements are beginning to fester, pitting chairman against chairman and even panel members against one another.
Story Continued Below
“It was all over the board,” said Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), who sits on the House Appropriations Committee, upon exiting the meeting.
The stalemate — which centers on how much to spend on defense as well as whether to use their Republican majority to cut mandatory programs like food stamps — has the potential to jam the GOP agenda. If Republicans don’t decide on a path forward soon, they may not be able to pass a budget at all.
The budget has been grounded for months amid internal House spending spats and the Trump administration’s own delay in writing a budget.
Eager to push ahead, House budget writers tentatively agreed in a separate meeting Wednesday afternoon to advance a budget resolution that takes a middle-of-the-road approach to both defense spending and the mandatory cuts. It would also trim domestic spending by several billion dollars.
Members are planning for a Budget Committee vote on June 28, though they’re waiting approval from GOP leadership. Lawmakers are also still fearful that their budget could fail to make it to the floor for the second year in a row.
Should that happen, GOP leaders can say goodbye to the fast-tracking budget tool they need to pass tax reform, which would be a huge blow to Capitol Hill Republicans and the White House.
Speaking to reporters as she exited the meeting, House Budget Committee Chairwoman Diane Black (R-Tenn.) declined to say whether she still hoped to pass the budget before the July Fourth recess, or if she thought the House GOP caucus was inching toward consensus.
“Of course I want to be able to mark up as soon as we’re ready. I’m continuing to make good progress,” Black said. “We are making progress.”
That progress was less than evident Wednesday, however. While Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) likes to say Republicans are having a “family conversation” about how to move forward on major issues, the House Republican Conference is more akin to an estranged family than one that chats over dinner each night.
During the Wednesday conference meeting, defense hawks stood up to say they want higher spending levels for the Pentagon and warned about potential harm to military readiness without a massive spending bump. Some even suggested they’d haul in Defense Secretary James Mattis if necessary to teach the conference a lesson in protecting the nation.
House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) has been making the case for a $640 billion Pentagon budget, well above President Donald Trump’s $603 billion budget proposal and substantially higher than the current $549 billion defense spending cap.
Thornberry's committee is set to mark up its annual defense policy legislation at the subcommittee level this week and at the full committee level next week. While House Armed Services has been mum on the total amount of spending it will outline in its must-pass bill, observers have said they expect Thornberry to press ahead with the $640 billion level.
Budget writers have called for $621 billion for defense, a compromise number they believe is sufficient, and they’re peeved that defense hawks don’t appear to be accepting that middle-ground number.
Some lawmakers and aides, however, say defense hawks usually win the battle between frugality and security — and they’re predicting Thornberry and his crew will again be victorious.
"I think people understand the need for a strong national defense, and I think what we need to talk about is what capabilities we either gain or give up... rather than just talking numbers,” said Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), who sits on Armed Services.
Exiting Wednesday’s meeting, Rep. Duncan Hunter, a California Republican who also sits on the defense panel, said “I think everybody's pro-$640 [billion], but they're gonna want things in exchange for that."
The thing conservatives want in exchange has become another sticking point: Black has been advocating for hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of cuts to mandatory programs in her budget, and hard-liners who love that idea say they could potentially support higher defense numbers if welfare programs are reformed and reduced.
But some chairmen, including Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas), have balked at the idea of making cuts to programs in their purview. Black has lowered her proposed cuts to mandatory programs from $400 billion to $150 billion, but she’s still getting pushback.
Asked about mandatory cuts under Agriculture, which would likely mean reductions to food stamps and farm subsidies, Conaway seemed peeved that details of Black’s budget had already made it to the press.
“I’m going to continue to talk to the Budget Committee to try to get her reasonable accommodation of what they’re trying to get done,” he said. “Once they put out an official statement, I’ll respond officially, but this leaking of information to try to run [ideas] up the flagpole is not the best way to run” business.
Even if the conference can hash out an agreement on defense numbers and mandatory cuts, it will face divisions on the process, which was the main focus of the Wednesday meeting. In fact, GOP lawmakers said they were surprised by how little talk there was about budget numbers, given how little time members have to act.
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) presented several scenarios to pass appropriations bills through the House, with the aim of averting a dreaded stopgap bill this fall. All would involve bundling at least some spending bills, meaning that lawmakers have officially ditched the idea of “regular order.”
Some Republicans prefer passing a massive, partisan spending bill in July even if it will never clear the Senate where Democratic votes would be needed. That idea, from Rep. Tom Graves (R-Ga.), is intended to give the rank and file more input, but other appropriators and staff are dreading the proposal and hoping leadership kills it quickly.
There’s concern about time: Can they really write a GOP spending bill in five weeks before the August recess? That timeline would give appropriators only about seven working days to file the text and get it to the floor in July.
Some, like appropriator Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), said they didn’t see the point since it would never become law.
“Some of the other options I consider to be a fake process that would lead to fake bills,” Dent said.
Multiple lawmakers said they expect to decide on a path forward at the next House GOP meeting on Friday morning. “Hopefully at that time, we’ll have some reading on a consensus,” said Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), former chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
Rogers said there’s a “strong sentiment to at least get some of the work done before the August break.” That, for now, appears to be where the consensus ends.
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, wants the White House to explain why senior adviser Jared Kushner still has a security clearance despite reports he failed to disclose meetings with Russian officials and businessmen.
Cummings sent a letter signed by all the Democrats on his committee to White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus on Wednesday requesting documents by July 5, including Kushner’s security clearance application and records of his contacts with Russians.
Story Continued Below
Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, omitted dozens of contacts with foreign leaders on his security clearance application, The New York Times reported in April, even though the application asks for a list of all encounters with foreign government officials over the past seven years. The Washington Post also reported last month that Russia’s ambassador to the U.S. had told his superiors Kushner wanted to set up a secret communications backchannel between the Trump transition team and Moscow.
Cummings’ letter cites government rules that say when there are credible allegations that a government employee is unfit to handle classified information, the employee’s security clearance is suspended pending an investigation.
“It is unclear why Mr. Kushner continues to have access to classified information while these allegations are being investigated,” the Maryland Democrat wrote.
His letter also questions why the White House didn’t suspend the security clearance of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn after being informed by former acting Attorney General Sally Yates that he might be susceptible to Russian blackmail.
“Although the White House received credible allegations of obvious security concern relating to General Flynn from the Acting Attorney General, it appears that the White House did not suspend his security clearance while those allegations were reviewed,” Cummings wrote.
The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee said Wednesday that subpoenas could be the next step if the White House doesn’t comply with a Friday deadline to hand over information on any tapes of President Donald Trump's meetings with former FBI Director James Comey.
Rep. Adam Schiff suggested in an interview the intelligence panel could also consider issuing subpoenas to get hold of memos Comey wrote and gave to some colleagues and friends about his interactions with Trump.
Story Continued Below
“I certainly would hope we'll get a response from the White House by Friday,” Rep. Adam Schiff said in an interview Wednesday, referring to his committee’s deadline to receive the tapes — if any exist,  as the president hinted in a tweet last month. “If we don't, then we'll have to determine what the next steps are.”
Asked if next steps could include subpoenas, the California Democrat responded: “Yes, it could.”
Rep. Mike Conaway, the Republican leading the intelligence panel’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the presidential election, would have to agree to any effort to issue subpoenas, as would House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.).
Conaway said Wednesday he did not know whether the Trump administration would meet the Friday deadline. “I'm not clairvoyant,” the Texas Republican quipped.
Comey’s memos — and possible tapes of his conversations with Trump — have been a source of controversy and speculation on Capitol Hill ever since last month, when The New York Times reported that Comey kept detailed memos of his interactions with the president. That includes a meeting in which Trump allegedly suggested to Comey he should drop the FBI’s investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn — a revelation that has led some to accuse the president of obstructing justice.
Shortly before that story published, Trump had suggested the existence of tapes in a tweet, writing: “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!”
More than a month later, Congress has yet to get its hands on the memos or any tapes, despite requests from several House and Senate Committees. A friend of Comey's has said he turned over copies of the memos to the FBI.
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday he expects Trump this week to clarify whether such tapes exist.
Conaway and Schiff requested information on any tapes and copies of the memos earlier this month, setting a Friday deadline for the tapes.
The Senate Judiciary and Intelligence Committees are also seeking any tapes and memos.
The Judiciary panel’s top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, said Tuesday she did not know yet whether either panel would actually get them.
Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), frustrated over Democrats’ loss in the Georgia special election and tired of relying on party leadership to recruit candidates, on Wednesday will release a list of eight fellow veterans he’s endorsing in 2018 House races.
Moulton is backing Dan McCready in North Carolina, Mikie Sherrill in New Jersey, Roger Dean Huffstetler in Virginia, Joseph Kopser in Texas, Patrick Ryan in New York, Ken Harbaugh in Ohio, Josh Butner in California and Jason Crow in Colorado, all Democrats who plan to challenge sitting Republican lawmakers next year.
Story Continued Below
Moulton, who vented Tuesday night in a series of tweets about the Georgia race, told POLITICO that he expects to endorse more candidates, as Democrats’ angst over non-stop losses leads to more fragmentation away from party leadership.
“We need more service-driven leaders who are prepared to put country over party and people over politics,” Moulton said. “The Democratic Party needs a new generation of leadership - one focused on the future.”
Moulton did four tours in Iraq as a Marine, and he has been active for the last few months in helping recruit veterans to run for office — in line with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s own veteran-heavy focus in seeking out candidates they think can help put control of the House in play next year.
It also serves another end: since arriving in the House in 2015, Moulton has been an outspoken critic of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other leaders.
“#Ossoff race better be a wake up call for Democrats—business as usual isn’t working. Time to stop rehashing 2016 and talk about the future,” Moulton tweeted after the Georgia results came in. “We need a genuinely new message, a serious jobs plan that reaches all Americans, and a bigger tent not a smaller one. Focus on the future.”
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other top Democrats put a brave face on Wednesday morning after a disappointing loss in the Georgia special election, yet there is no disguising the unhappiness in the party ranks.
There is no challenge to Pelosi’s leadership, and none is going to happen at this point, said numerous Democrats. But it’s clear frustration is growing with the longtime Democratic leader following the extensive losses Democrats have suffered over the past half-decade.
Story Continued Below
And the fact that Republicans spent millions of dollars on TV ads tying Democratic hopeful Jon Ossoff to Pelosi — and the brand of progressive policies she represents — shows that she will once again be an issue for Democratic challengers in the very districts that the party needs to win to make her speaker again.
Some Democrats want to replace Pelosi atop their caucus, as they have since last November’s poor showing at the polls; they say there is no way to get back in the majority with her as their leader. And others who backed her in last year’s leadership challenge have now flipped their stance.
“I think you’d have to be an idiot to think we could win the House with Pelosi at the top,” said Rep. Filemon Vela (D-Texas), who supported Pelosi in her last leadership race. “Nancy Pelosi is not the only reason that Ossoff lost. But she certainly is one of the reasons.”
Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), who backed a challenge to Pelosi last year, said the results of the Ossoff race further underscore that Pelosi should let someone else take the reins.
“There comes a time when every leader has to say, ‘For the good of the order and for the betterment of the party, it’s time for me to step aside.’ And I wish that that would happen right now,” Rice said in an interview. “This is not a personal thing. I want to get back in the majority.”
Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who challenged Pelosi for minority leader in November, wouldn’t comment directly whether she should step down, saying only, “My position hasn’t changed.”
“I think it’s very concerning that that tactic still has some punch,” Ryan said. “Again, it’s part of the broader national brand that average people don’t feel connected to the Democratic Party. Walk up the street and ask 10 people what the Democrats stand for, you’ll get 10 different answers. That’s no way to build a national party.”

Pelosi told her members in a closed-door meeting on Wednesday morning that Ossoff was “a candidate who was young and enthusiastic, and attracted national support,” according to Democratic sources. Pelosi also pointed out that Ossoff lost by only a small margin in the 6th Congressional District race — 3.8 percent — far smaller than the previous Democratic candidate for the seat lost by in November.
Pelosi, though, admitted: “A loss is a loss. It is a setback. Unfortunately, a loss for us. But not good news” for Republicans. Pelosi also cautioned her members not to overreact to the results of this specific race.
Pelosi didn’t talk to members about the GOP ads focusing on her. No members brought up the issue of her leadership or said she should step aside.
Pelosi pointed out that Democrats won the special-election fights during the 2009-10 cycle, only to lose 63 seats in November 2010, while in 2005-06 — when Democrats won the House — they lost several special elections.
And Pelosi talked about how the recent shooting of Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) may have aided GOP candidate Karen Handel. Republican outside groups tried to tie that shooting to the frenzy of anti-Trump rhetoric among Democratic supporters, as the shooter posted strongly negative comments about President Donald Trump on his Facebook page.
“Republican voters don’t get to select the leaders of the Democratic Party,” said Drew Hammill, a spokesman for Pelosi. “Since [Newt] Gingrich, the politics of personal destruction has been a GOP hallmark. They will do this to any and every Democratic leader because the only thing sustaining their majority is desperation.”
Some Democrats said they left the meeting surprised and disheartened that the GOP’s Pelosi attack ads weren’t addressed in some way.
“It was probably one of the more disturbing caucus meetings that I’ve ever been in. And everyone pretty much sat in silence, and I’d like to think that they were as shocked as I was that they were hearing the spin that was being put on this loss,” Rice said.
With President Barack Obama out of office, Pelosi is once again the Democrat that Republicans most love to hate. She has been on the national scene for 14 years, and Republicans have long made the phrase “San Francisco values” a pejorative for any Democratic challenger.
And Democrats — despite the fervor among their base — are being forced to acknowledge that an anti-Trump message is not going to be enough by itself to win in 2018. Trump may have historically bad poll numbers for this point in his presidency, but Democrats are likely to need more than that to get back in the majority.
Pelosi still has a lot going for her. She remains the most successful nonpresidential political fundraiser in U.S. history, raising more than $560 million for House Democrats since she became leader in 2003, even though critics say all the money doesn’t matter if they keep losing. There’s also no question Pelosi remains popular with many House Democrats, despite her detractors.
“I think she’s one of the best speakers ever, and I am glad to support her,” said Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, a leading progressive who lost a race for Democratic National Committee chairman earlier this year.
“This is nothing new,” Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley of New York said of the GOP’s Pelosi bashing. “I think we’ll have an opportunity to look at all the ads on all sides that were ran, all the issues, all the warts that existed in evaluating the results of this election. But the day after is a little too soon.”
Some Democrats who are running statewide — either for governor or Senate — say the party must not try to nationalize every race. Instead, they say, it must focus on local issues in order to reach voters. And official Washington’s obsession with the Trump-Russia probe, while vitally important, is not something average voters are focusing on daily.
“I think what people are looking for is that they want to believe someone knows where they are coming from. They want to believe that you’re a decent person,” said Rep. Tim Walz (D-Minn.), who is running for governor. “I think the race in my district, I think that President Trump would still win it, although it would be closer. That’s totally on him, and really doesn’t have to do with us.”
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise’s condition has been upgraded from “serious” to “fair,” his doctors said Wednesday.
“Congressman Steve Scalise continues to make good progress,” his doctors at MedStar Washington Hospital Center said in a statement. “He is now listed in fair condition and is beginning an extended period of healing and rehabilitation.”
Story Continued Below
It's another sign that the Louisiana Republican is making progress in recovering from last week's near-fatal gunshot wound.
ATLANTA — Facing fresh criticism from fellow Democrats after a disappointing loss in a Georgia special election, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairman Ben Ray Luján on Wednesday sought to rally his party by declaring the House of Representatives in play and distributing internal data suggesting a number of incumbent Republicans are in more electoral trouble than widely thought.
In a nearly 1,600-word Wednesday morning memo to committee staff that was obtained by POLITICO, the New Mexico congressman shared polling conducted between late March and mid-June showing Democrats in position to make gains in a handful of competitive seats held by Republicans.
Story Continued Below
Explaining that in some cases the pollsters tested specific Democratic challengers against Republican incumbents, Lujan said “many incumbents — who won with double digits last cycle — would be in the race of their careers, including Reps. Martha McSally (D+5), Brian Mast (D+3), Kevin Yoder (D+2), and Rodney Frelinghuysen (D+3).”
“We have a unique opportunity to flip control of the House of Representatives in 2018. This is about much more than one race: the national environment, unprecedented grassroots energy and impressive Democratic candidates stepping up to run deep into the battlefield leave no doubt that Democrats can take back the House next fall,” he writes elsewhere in the memo. “I don’t make this statement lightly — I’ve never said it before. I know the road back to a Democratic House majority will be long and hard.”
The message lands at a difficult time for Democratic leaders, coming after they pumped millions of dollars into Georgia's 6th District to try and elect Jon Ossoff to replace now-HHS Secretary Tom Price, Tuesday's loss to Republican Karen Handel hit them hard.
Activists, consultants, and lawmakers alike spent hours on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning questioning the DCCC’s leadership in Georgia and in a handful of other special elections where Democrats have come close but fallen short.
The party’s candidates have come far closer than previous Democrats in the heavily Republican districts, but the handful of high-profile losses — including in Kansas and Montana — still proved demoralizing to many party strategists.
Lujan’s message on Wednesday was that the Trump-driven swing that’s been seen in those races portends a broader shift ahead of 2018.
“As you know, we need 24 seats to retake the majority. Our DCCC polling team and outside pollsters went into dozens of districts in the last few months to learn: Is the momentum real? Is it building to the point that we can win 24 seats and take back the House? The answer is yes. In more than 24 districts and counting, generic Democrats are leading in the polls or have already made significant shifts from the last polls available in 2016.”
One of the polling graphics included in the memo shows an 18-point Democratic advantage in Florida’s 27th District — held by retiring Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen — an 11-point lead in California’s 21st — held by David Valadao — and 9-point leads in both California’s 10th (Jeff Denham) and 49th (Darrell Issa) districts.
Lujan also told staff that starting this week, senior aides and allies will be deployed into target districts to ramp up candidate recruitment, and that Lujan himself is planning trips to states including Maine, Kansas, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Missouri.
Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said Wednesday the Democratic National Committee “did not feel it needed” the assistance of the Department of Homeland Security following last year’s election hack, which U.S. officials have since attributed to Russia.
“Sometime in 2016 I became aware of a hack into systems of the Democratic National Committee,” Johnson said in prepared testimony to the House Intelligence Committee. “I pressed my staff to know whether DHS was sufficiently proactive, and on the scene helping the DNC identify the intruders and patch vulnerabilities. The answer, to the best of my recollection, was not reassuring.
Story Continued Below
“The FBI and the DNC had been in contact with each other months before about the intrusion,” he continued, “and the DNC did not feel it needed DHS’s assistance at that time.”
Johnson’s testimony is part of the House Intelligence panel’s investigation into Russian meddling in the presidential election, which is looking into possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
U.S. officials believe Russia later provided the information stolen from the DNC, possibly using intermediaries, to WikiLeaks as part of the Kremlin’s larger effort to damage Hillary Clinton and help elect Trump.
In a statement Wednesday, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), who chaired the DNC until July of last year, said no government agency contacted her about the Russian hack into the organization’s network.
“It is astounding to me that the Chair of an organization like the DNC was never contacted by the FBI or any other agency concerned about these intrusions,” she said in a statement. “As a member of Congress, I had the unique clearance to hear any classified briefing that would be involved in such an intrusion, and the FBI clearly should have come to me with that information. They did not.”
She added that if the FBI or any other agency had contacted her, she “would have gladly welcomed their help.”
During Wednesday's hearing, Johnson faced questions from the intelligence panel’s ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, over why the Obama administration waited until October to inform the public about Russia’s cyber campaign.
“This was a big decision, and there were a lot of considerations that went into it,” Johnson responded. “This was an unprecedented step.”
He said the administration was concerned about being criticized for trying to influence the election, especially given that Trump was calling the election process “rigged.”
He also noted that when the administration finally did decide to issue its statement about the hacking — on Oct. 7 — that it got overshadowed because that was the same day the news broke of the “Access Hollywood” video from 11 years earlier in which Trump bragged about groping women.
Schiff then asked why President Barack Obama did not do more to draw attention to the issue of Russia’s cyber campaign.
“You shouldn't view the Oct. 7 statement in isolation,” Johnson responded. "This was an ongoing effort to inform the public."
In his prepared remarks, Johnson chronicles his attempt to sound the alarm about Russia’s cyber campaign — only to run into political obstacles. For instance, he said he wanted to declare the country's election infrastructure to be "critical infrastructure," which would have made it a top priority for receipt of DHS services and ensured it received "the benefit of various domestic and international cybersecurity protections."
“To my disappointment,” he explained, “the reaction to a critical infrastructure designation, at least from those who spoke up, ranged from neutral to negative. Those who expressed negative views stated that running elections in this country was the sovereign and exclusive responsibility of the states, and they did not want federal intrusion, a federal takeover, or federal regulation of that process. This was a profound misunderstanding of what a critical infrastructure designation would mean, which I tried to clarify for them.”
The idea, he said, was shelved until after the election. In January, DHS made the designation of election infrastructure as critical infrastructure — and his successor, John Kelly, has reaffirmed that designation.
Johnson added that to his knowledge, Russia’s cyber attacks did not result in any actual votes being tampered with or changed.
“I am not in a position to know whether the successful Russian government-directed hacks of the DNC and elsewhere did in fact alter public opinion and thereby alter the outcome of the presidential election,” he said.
After unsuccessful bids to be governor and a U.S. senator, Karen Handel’s victory in Georgia’s 6th congressional district special election Tuesday keeps the longtime Republican seat in conservative hands.
Handel, a former businesswoman, cast herself during the race against Democrat Jon Ossoff as “a lifelong conservative who built her career on delivering results in both the public and private sectors.”
Story Continued Below
Her previous positions in government include serving as Georgia’s secretary of state from 2007-2009 and as chair of the Fulton County Board of Commissioners from 2003-2006.
Handel’s tried to winnow down Georgia voter rolls as secretary of state, drawing allegations of voter suppression and a federal lawsuit filed by the ACLU.
She left that post early in 2009 to run for governor of Georgia. Though she gained endorsements from former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin and future GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, Handel lost in the Republican primary by less than 3,000 votes to Nathan Deal, who is now finishing up his second term as governor.
Her next attempt at running for public office came in 2014, when she sought to replace to retired Sen. Saxby Chambliss but came in third in the primary. But she jumped into the race for the 6th District earlier this year when Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price vacated the seat to join Trump's Cabinet. In April, Handel came in second in the all-party special primary, triggering Tuesday’s runoff against Ossoff.
During the campaign, which was the most expensive House race in history, Handel backed many of President Donald Trump’s policy positions, including building a wall on the southern border. She also touted the House proposal to repeal Obamacare, rolling back federal regulations and simplifying the tax code.
Perhaps most central to her conservative agenda was a staunch pro-life stance. Handel left a high-ranking position with the Susan G. Komen for the Cure charity in 2012 after the cancer-fighting organization decided to restore funding for Planned Parenthood, an organization she called “blatantly partisan.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan and Vice President Mike Pence both campaigned for Handel in Georgia, and outside groups poured money into her election bid.
Still, though Handel supported most of Trump’s policies and held a private fundraiser with him in April, she did not go out of her way to mention the president on the campaign trail, in a bid for the district’s moderate voters. In 2012, Republican nominee Mitt Romney won the district by 23 percentage points, but it became much closer last year. In 2016, Trump won the district by just 1.5 points.
The day after Republican Karen Handel won the heated Georgia 6th Congressional District special election, President Donald Trump offered some advice to Democrats, recommending that they work to cut deals with Republicans on some of his top policy goals and suggesting that such a maneuver would ultimately be to their benefit.
“Democrats would do much better as a party if they got together with Republicans on healthcare, tax cuts, security. Obstruction doesn't work!” the president tweeted Wednesday morning.
Story Continued Below
While Democrats have expressed some interest in working with the president on a package of infrastructure legislation, one of his campaign promises, they have been unwilling thus far to join Republican efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, Trump’s top policy priority. The president seems similarly unlikely to receive Democratic help in passing a tax reform package, another top goal for Trump.
But while the president could certainly benefit from Democratic votes to pass some of his preferred legislation, he does not need them. Republicans are the majority party in both houses of Congress and can pass some legislation, including a repeal-and-replace bill expected to be unveiled Thursday, through the Senate with a simple majority that will not require a single Democratic vote.
Even with their majorities in the House and Senate, Republicans have struggled at times to find consensus even within their own caucus. The House version of legislation to undo Obamacare, the highest-profile piece of legislation to date of Trump’s presidency, failed on its first attempt to garner enough GOP support to pass, unable to strike a balance between the archconservative and moderate wings of the party.
A later version of the bill did manage to strike that compromise, but only barely, clearing the House by just two votes.
Handel bested Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff Tuesday night to win Georgia's special election.
The Congressional Black Caucus is expected to reject an invitation to meet with President Donald Trump, according to four sources close to the group.
The Trump administration, sources said, has done nothing to advance the CBC's priorities since the group's executive board first met with Trump in March. And members are worried the request for a caucus-wide meeting would amount to little more than a photo op that the president could use to bolster his standing among African-Americans.
Story Continued Below
“No one wants to be a co-star on the reality show,” said one senior Democratic aide.
Lawmakers in the 49-member group each received an invitation last week from Omarosa Manigault, the-reality-TV-star-turned-White-House-aide who has pitched herself as an unofficial liaison to the CBC.
“As requested by the president, we would like to schedule a follow-up meeting with the entire membership of the Congressional Black Caucus to discuss issues pertinent to your members,” Manigault wrote in the invitation, obtained by POLITICO.
But multiple CBC members said they were put off that she signed the invitation as “the Honorable Omarosa Manigault,” saying she hasn’t earned that title nor has she helped raise the profile of CBC issues within the White House as promised.
CBC Chairman Cedric Richmond (D-La.) isn’t expected to make an official announcement until after the group discusses the invitation during its weekly meeting Wednesday. Kamara Jones, a spokeswoman for the CBC, declined to comment on the record.
But sources close to the group say they have been told the caucus-wide meeting with the president is "off the table."
There are both logistical and political hurdles to the entire caucus meeting with Trump.
With nearly 50 members, assembling even most of the caucus for a meeting would be difficult. “How do you get 30-plus members into a room having a meeting and make it meaningful?” said one source familiar with the caucus’ deliberations.
But members of the caucus are also worried about the optics of a meeting. During their meeting with Trump in March, members of the leadership tried to avoid taking a picture with Trump for fear it would be used to make it look like they had thrown their support behind the president.
If the majority of the caucus were to go to the White House, the pressure to huddle with Trump in the Oval Office for a group photo could be tougher to avoid. “The entire caucus goes down there, it’s sort of harder to control,” the source familiar with the situation said.
Aside from the optics, Trump has done little, if anything, to address any of the policies important to the caucus, members say.
CBC sources said caucus members were miffed that the Trump budget proposal didn’t include additional funding for historically black colleges and universities after the president made a big show of meeting with leaders from those schools in the Oval Office in February.
Trump further angered the CBC when he issued a statement accompanying the stopgap funding bill in early May questioning the constitutionality of federal funding for historically black colleges and universities.
“For a president who pledged to reach out to African-Americans and other minorities, this statement is stunningly careless and divisive,” Richmond and Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.), ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, said in a joint statement at the time.
Sources say the president also hasn’t made any efforts to advance CBC priorities on criminal justice reform or voting rights, two issues that are also critically important to the group, and the White House hasn’t even responded to policy requests from members since the March meeting.
Senate Republicans are closer than ever to voting to repeal Obamacare after three months of work that’s unparalleled in its secrecy and speed. They’re unapologetic, though. Because so far, it’s working.
The closed-door deliberations, which have left even some GOP senators in the dark, have prompted widespread charges of hypocrisy and even a fair amount of heartburn within a party that railed for seven years against Democrats’ rush to pass their 2010 health care reform law.
Story Continued Below
But it’s that secrecy that has also helped put the GOP within potential reach of dismantling Obamacare and handing President Donald Trump his first big legislative win.
By keeping the process under wraps, Senate Republican leaders have largely bypassed the headaches and inevitable blowback when any ambitious piece of legislation sees the light of day — especially one that has already become wildly unpopular if polls on the House GOP’s effort to overhaul the U.S. health care system are any indication.
They’re also betting that for all the stone-throwing from the left, voters already convinced that Congress is broken won’t punish Senate Republicans for putting yet another dent in the institution.
“I’ve always said I would’ve preferred a more open process,” Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) said. “But if you just wait and say, ‘Oh, we want an open process,’ then you never get that. So at some point you’ve got to play the cards dealt to you.”
The Senate GOP’s speed play comes after House Republicans barely pushed through their own version of Obamacare repeal — an effort hampered by fierce criticism over both its secrecy and Congressional Budget Office projections the proposal would leave millions more Americans without health insurance.
Senate Republicans pledged to learn from the backlash and start from scratch on their own bill. Instead, they appear to be largely keeping the House-passed bill’s framework and moved their deliberations completely out of public view.
GOP lawmakers have spent the two months since debating broad policy during closed-door lunches, and confining the details to small-group meetings. The actual bill-writing has fallen to an even more select group.
“The leader is really writing this bill,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), referring to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his staff. “I mean, we can say the Finance Committee is. We can say the Budget Committee is. We can say the HELP Committee is. But the leader’s office is really writing the bill.”
That’s left much of the rest of the conference in the dark on the legislation’s final details, prompting uneasiness among lawmakers facing daily questions about the bill. A number of GOP senators say they’ve expressed private concerns about the process to Republican leaders, and have increasingly tried to fend off criticism by saying publicly they wish the conference had taken a different route.
“Health care is such an important thing, I think we should’ve debated it in open, in committee hearings,” said Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, perhaps the most outspoken Republican skeptic. “If you do it on one side only, what you’re setting yourself up for is failure.”
Sen. Pat Toomey, who has spearheaded conservative senators’ effort to quickly end enhanced funding for Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, bristled at questions about the GOP’s strategic secrecy.
“You can ask leadership for their reason,” the Pennsylvania Republican said. “They do what they do.”
Still, GOP senators aren’t slowing the march toward a vote, reasoning that the closed-door process has boosted their ability to briskly debate and cobble together proposals that could reshape health care for millions of people.
Republicans have only a limited period to repeal Obamacare under arcane Senate rules that require only 50 votes. They say that bypassing public hearings and committee markups saves valuable time that would otherwise be consumed by unyielding Democratic opposition. And avoiding the public scrutiny that comes with debating every provision in public has upped the odds that Senate Republicans can keep their thin majority united long enough to push the bill through the chamber.
“At the end of the day, you’re judged by what you get,” said one GOP senator, dismissing concerns about the lack of public feedback on the bill. “At the end of the day, they’re not going to be critical of how we got there.”
Others, including McConnell, wave off criticism of the GOP’s tactics as identical to the Democrats’ approach in the run-up to Obamacare’s party-line passage seven years ago. In fact, the approaches differ sharply: The 2009 debate over Obamacare spanned more than a year and included public hearings, committee markups and roundtables, with President Barack Obama at times taking questions directly from congressional Republicans.
Pressed on the contrast, GOP senators argue that lawmakers have nevertheless debated health care countless times in the several years since Obamacare’s passage.
“There’s been all this talk about having hearings,” Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) said, exasperated. “My God, I went through how many hours of hearings?”
That hasn’t stopped Senate Democrats from seizing on the GOP’s secrecy, hoping to boost public criticism of a bill that they’re powerless to stop. During an all-night occupation of the Senate floor, Democrats railed against the repeal effort not only for rolling back Obamacare but for threatening to forever rewrite the rules for passing bills in a chamber famously known as the world’s greatest deliberative body.
“Perhaps some of the biggest issues of humanity were debated in an open forum — we have records of those discussions, records of those deliberations,” said New Jersey Democrat Cory Booker. “Tonight, it’s remarkable to me, it’s almost tragic to me, to see a process that is so broken, a process that is so secretive.”
Urged on by liberal activists, Democrats are weighing the strategy of grinding the Senate to a halt, in hopes of dragging out the chamber’s work and forcing the repeal bill to go public long enough to mobilize stronger opposition.
But Republicans’ secrecy has succeeded even in muting that resistance.
Activists have had no new proposals to rally against, and groups across the health care spectrum that hoped to help improve the House-passed repeal bill have found few opportunities to pressure senators over what’s ultimately included in the bill.
As for the public, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) dismissed speculation that voters would make Republicans pay a price.
“If you really want to judge whether Obamacare is a good election-year issue, then look at the last three election cycles,” he said.
Jennifer Haberkorn and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Members of the House Intelligence Committee huddled Tuesday with Robert Mueller — the special counsel probing Russian interference in the 2016 election — to ensure their parallel investigations don’t conflict with one another.
Reps. Mike Conaway (R-Texas) and Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), who are leading the House’s probe into the matter, huddled with Mueller in a secure Capitol conference room to begin setting parameters.
Story Continued Below
“We are setting up a system to deconflict,” Conaway said shortly after the meeting.
Mueller has been expanding his investigation, which was authorized by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein after President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey. He is also tasked with looking into the possibility that Trump associates aided Russian efforts to meddle in the 2016 campaign. And he’s also believed to be looking into the prospect that Trump obstructed justice when he fired Comey, who had been leading the FBI’s Russia investigation at the time.
Conaway said he was unsure how long it would take to establish clear delineation between the probes, and he declined to say whether there were any other subjects raised during the meeting with Mueller.
Conaway also said he wouldn’t discuss whether the White House has responded to the committee’s request for any recordings that might exist of meetings between Trump and Comey.
Comey testified earlier this month that he felt pressured by Trump to help “lift the cloud” of the Russia investigation from his White House and to end a related investigation of former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
When Comey’s account began emerging shortly after he was fired, Trump insinuated on Twitter that tapes of their conversations might exist. Comey has said he would welcome the production of such tapes, and the White House has refused to say whether any such recordings exist.
Rank-and-file House Republicans, frustrated by the lack of wins on crucial spending issues, are pushing GOP leaders to get more partisan.
Support is building among GOP members to hold a summer vote on a Republican spending package decorated with GOP goodies, an idea first proposed by House Appropriations Committee cardinal Rep. Tom Graves (R-Ga.). Some House appropriators who like the idea are moving full steam ahead to write the bill, multiple sources said. And supporters argue that while their idea may never pass the more moderate Senate, it will buy the leadership goodwill with the conference while giving Republicans a leg up on spending negotiations with Democrats this fall.
Story Continued Below
But some leaders and appropriators are privately worried about the short window before the August recess and the risk of embarrassment if a GOP spending bill fails to clear the notoriously divided House Republican Conference. The debate will come to a head during a closed-door meeting Wednesday that is likely to highlight early fissures within the House GOP.
“I think it’s vitally important that we as a Republican Conference put our marker down as to what we believe and what we stand for, and let’s pass a conservative House Republican funding package,” Graves said in an interview. “I think the conference is ready and desires to vote on our vision for the Republican Party, and aligning that as best as we can with the administration’s priorities.”
House Republicans during the Wednesday conference are expected to consider whether to pursue the Graves plan. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) will lay out several alternatives, including a “security bus” — a smaller, national security GOP appropriations package that would boost the military.
Nobody appears to want to make a firm decision. GOP leaders on Wednesday will encourage the conference to plot a path forward. Appropriators, meanwhile, say they’re waiting for guidance from leadership.
It’s an awkward situation because the proposal even pits appropriators against appropriators. While several appropriators — including top cardinals with subcommittee gavels — back the idea, others privately are grumbling and hoping leadership will pan it altogether.
Republican House members who’ve campaigned on fiscal responsibility their entire careers hoped they’d finally get to pass more GOP spending priorities now that their party controls the White House and Congress. But they’re increasingly resigned that nothing has really changed since Senate rules require eight Democrats to do virtually anything.
Enter Graves, the financial services subcommittee chairman close to GOP leaders. He pitched his fellow appropriators and McCarthy on the idea of passing a GOP spending package about six weeks ago — even if it doesn’t pass the Senate. And he presented the proposal to members a few weeks ago, arguing it allows Republicans to show constituents what they would support if they could pass something without Democrats.
Many Republicans, frustrated by the lack of input they’ve had on appropriations bills that have been stalled in recent years, applauded. They envision something like ex-Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) put on the floor in early 2011, when Republicans first seized the majority and, over the course of several days, voted on hundreds of amendments to a massive GOP spending package.
“We’re 100 percent behind the Graves idea,” said Republican Study Committee Chairman Mark Walker (R-N.C.), whose group has endorsed the plan. “If we get past August, and then we’re in September, and then there is some kind of rollout and in 24 hours you’ve got to vote on something that you’re still trying to process and read, it’s not going to be a good thing.”
Walker said conservatives are willing to deal with higher spending levels if they can offer amendments with their own priorities.
“I think it’s a great idea!” said Rep. Trent Franks of Arizona, a Freedom Caucus member. “It would help focus the country.”
But some in leadership and on Appropriations are concerned about time — particularly after lawmakers lost much of last week after Wednesday’s congressional baseball practice shooting.
If appropriators work every day from now until the end of the July, they may be able to finish the package. It would likely have to go straight to the floor, probably the last week before the August recess, in what’s bound to be a tedious process for staff who will work nonstop to get hundreds of amendments lined up and ready — just as they did in 2011.
There’s also concern about an already packed July calendar. The House will also have to pass a potentially more-moderate Obamacare replacement and probably raise the debt ceiling — two controversial votes that will be a heavy lift for GOP leaders.
Even if Republicans could finish the bill and find time to vote, leadership is also concerned about doing all the leg work only to find that it can’t pass. They want rank-and-file Republicans to commit to supporting their GOP legislation — even if some of their prized amendments go down.
Some also expect moderates to balk at taking tough votes for nothing, given the bill is essentially a public relations statement and will have no chance of becoming law. Controversial amendments dealing with government contractors and hiring practices for gay applicants, or the Confederate flag, are likely to surface — votes Republicans typically try to avoid.
Still, many in the conference say it’s time for change. And they want to show the GOP base they’re trying.
“The last election is not far from our memory, and we cannot ignore what people all across this country said. … ‘Go clean things up, get spending under control, rebuild our military,’” Graves said. “We’ve got a chance to show the American people what that is, and this is our one opportunity to do that.”
John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
Senate Republicans are planning a pivotal meeting for Thursday morning to start the whipping process for Obamacare repeal, according to two sources familiar with the process.
Mitch McConnell’s current whip count to repeal Obamacare is far short of 50 votes. There is still no bill, and even Republicans are moaning about the rush and lack of transparency.
Story Continued Below
The GOP plan to jam through a bill over the next 10 days amounts to a rare political risk by McConnell with no guarantee of success — and one that could jeopardize his Senate majority long-term if the bill ends up being viewed as poorly as the House-passed bill, which has a 17 percent approval rating.
McConnell himself wouldn’t guarantee passage on Tuesday, or even commit to a vote next week, though that is his plan.
Senate Republicans will gather Thursday morning to get an early read on whether an Obamacare repeal vote next week will be successful, according to the sources. Regardless of the outcome, the vote is still planned for next week.
Although other sources downplayed the significance, noting that the text won't be released until Thursday and a CBO score won't be out yet.
Some Republicans suspect the Senate majority leader has a master legislative stroke ahead, but it appears that only the canny Kentucky Republican has any inkling of what will transpire next week.
With a razor-thin margin, McConnell can afford to lose only two votes. A handful of moderates and conservatives have already — and loudly — voiced their concerns with the Senate bill so far, meaning McConnell is going to have to choose between making the moderates happy, making the conservatives happy or somehow splitting the difference.
“We don’t have a bill. But I’m confident,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas). “It’s my job to find 50 votes. We’re going to have 50 votes.”
Unlike with most legislative gambits on Capitol Hill, Republicans are divided on what exactly is going to happen: Those close to leadership believe passage is likely next week, while others on the periphery of the caucus are far less bullish and say the same intractable debates over pre-existing conditions, Medicaid and Planned Parenthood are still raging.
Already, the emerging GOP bill is drawing critics from across the spectrum of the GOP Conference, not to mention furious Democrats.
“I think you’re going to wind up with what you had with the House bill. About 20 percent of the public’s going to think it’s a good idea,” said Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who appears to be an almost certain “no” vote. “No Democrat’s going to like it; that’s half the public. And half the Republicans are going to say: My goodness, it certainly doesn’t look like repeal.”
Republicans believe that setting a deadline of next week is necessary to get the Senate GOP out of its rut and its circular negotiations. And McConnell could always introduce a bill this week and pull it before next week’s vote is held, still leaving him with a month to get the bill across the finish line before the August recess, considered a harder legislative deadline.
There is no formal whip count right now, though leadership is aware of two moderates, at least a trio of conservatives and a half-dozen senators from Medicaid expansion states who need to be placated. Whether those wobbly Republicans will vote for the bill is unlikely to be clear until a Congressional Budget Office score emerges early next week that will spell out in plain English what the bill would do, including how much it would cost and how many people would lose health coverage.
“I assume we’ll vote on this bill whether we have 50 votes or not,” said Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), one of McConnell’s deputies. “On a bill like this, everything happens in the last 10 days.”
Most senators said things are impossible to game out at this stage, barely a week before the vote, with no bill text in hand and no CBO score. Several Republicans on Tuesday hedged their support until they see text, but said they want to have at least several days to review it.
An activist approached Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) in the Russell Office Building to ask him when the health care bill would be public. His response: “I don’t know.”
“I can’t say no to something I haven’t seen. It’d be nice to say no, but I haven’t seen something to say no to,” he growled when asked about how he can turn his process complaints into action.
After weeks of lengthy meetings on health care and little movement toward consensus, one thing has become clear: McConnell is ready to change the conversation. His preference is to pass a bill, but he and the rest of his caucus are ready to reach a conclusion.
Republicans say that when McConnell puts the bill up for a vote, the bill will be boiled down to a binary decision by leaders: Either you’re on the side of Obamacare, or you’re against it.
“It’s hard for eight years to be critical of something and then turn around and vote against [repealing] it,” said Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), a close leadership ally.
For all the public complaints from Republicans about the lack of transparency, senators aren’t generally taking their complaints behind closed doors, which could suggest a rosier outlook for McConnell than many senators’ comments have suggested. At a party lunch on Tuesday, Republicans mostly just listened to Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price talk about changes he can make through executive branch authority.
But there are exceptions.
“I won’t vote yes until I’ve satisfied myself that it’s a continuous improvement over what we currently have, and I’ll need information to make that determination,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) said gruffly after party meetings on Tuesday. “I’ll have to see what the final bill is. And by the way, I think the American people ought to have enough time with the final bill as well.”
Senate Republicans are moving forward amid the uncertainty in part because they are largely insulated from short-term political blowback with a highly favorable battleground map in 2018. It’s difficult to envision how Republicans could lose the Senate next year in response to passing an unpopular bill, though they could pay a price in 2020 if the public sours on the opaque, partisan process or the results of the repeal effort, which will likely come into focus by the next presidential election.
It’s not lost on Republicans the price that Democrats paid by passing Obamacare: losing the House, then the Senate and statehouses and governors’ mansions across the country.
“If at the end of the day, this ends up easing some of the pain that’s out there right now relative to health care, I think people will look favorably upon that,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). “If it ends up making things worse, I think they will look upon it very much like the ’09 bill passage did” among Democrats.
In the short term, Dean Heller of Nevada is the most vulnerable Senate Republican, the only incumbent up for reelection in a state won by Hillary Clinton. But he says he’s willing to follow McConnell and risk his seat if the bill is favorable to his state.
“I will vote for this if it’s good for the state of Nevada,” Heller said Tuesday. As to whether the emerging outline is good for the state, Heller couldn’t yet say. “I’m going to find out when I see the CBO,” he said. “What will make me comfortable is a discussion with the governor.”
Indeed, the fortunes of the bill will develop over the next week and may not come into focus until perhaps a day or so before the vote. A group of about a half-dozen senators from Medicaid expansion states are still resisting reduced spending rates on Medicaid, and conservatives say they can’t commit until they are convinced that the bill lowers premiums.
The lack of bill text has only heightened the uncertainty and delayed the tough choices facing Senate Republicans until they actually hold the bill in their hands.
“I’m not going to tell you I’m going to vote for something I’ve never seen,” said Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.). “You’re asking hypotheticals. So I have to answer in the hypothetical.”
Senate Democrats are struggling against an invisible enemy — the GOP’s still-secret Obamacare repeal plan. So on Tuesday, three of them decided to take a field trip to hunt for it.
Sens. Cory Booker of New Jersey, Chris Murphy of Connecticut and Brian Schatz of Hawaii headed across the Hill to the Congressional Budget Office, located in Southwest Washington about a 10-minute drive from the Capitol, in what they acknowledged would be a fruitless quest for a copy of the health care bill that Republicans expect to bring to a vote as soon as next week.
Story Continued Below
The media-savvy trio live-streamed most of their journey on Facebook in the latest gambit of the Democrats’ campaign to force the GOP’s closed-door process for repealing Obamacare into the public consciousness.
“This is a way to expose, with a little bit of humor, the absurdity of this moment in time,” Booker told reporters as the trio left the CBO empty-handed. “Right now there are literally Americans fearing what might be in this bill…and for this all to be happening in private and in secrecy is absurd.”
The three Democrats said they met with senior officials at the nonpartisan budget office but were unable to obtain a copy of any text under evaluation for its budgetary impacts. Republicans have not said whether they've given the CBO a copy of a full bill, but they have referred some ideas to the office for consideration.
As they arrived at the CBO, their fellow Democrats were also protesting the clandestine health care process by invoking an obscure rule that allows any senator to object to committee meetings held more than two hours after the Senate goes into session.
Republicans urged the minority to rethink its maneuvering. Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) delivered a floor speech accusing Democrats of doing little more than giving “impassioned speeches” after spurning “every entreaty, every request for them to work with us” on mending Obamacare.
Sen. Todd Young (R-Ind.) navigated around Tuesday's committee-work stoppage by simply continuing a public health hearing he had scheduled, though he said it was an informal meeting and live-streamed it on Facebook.
“That’s what drives people back home absolutely crazy — this Washington shell game up here,” Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) said in a brief interview. “We need to put it aside and get this thing fixed.”
Other Republicans weren’t as riled up. “I don’t critique their behavior. Whatever they want to do is fine with me,” said Sen. John McCain of Arizona.
Democrats vowed to keep using every tactic possible to draw attention to the GOP’s avoidance so far of any public hearings on an Obamacare repeal bill that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) expects to release for public discussion on Thursday, potentially only a few days before a vote.
Booker even offered to debate President Donald Trump on the Obamacare repeal, a key promise by Republicans during the 2016 campaign, in a nod to former President Barack Obama’s 2010 televised summit with Republicans before passage of the health care legislation that came to bear his name.
“I’m at my wit’s end," declared Booker, who parried a fan’s question about his 2020 ambitions on his way out of CBO headquarters.
All three Democrats goaded Trump in stark terms during their visit, appearing to relish the prospect of a public battle with the president. Murphy predicted Trump would avoid talking with Democrats about Obamacare repeal “because he doesn’t know what’s in this bill.”
Schatz told reporters that Trump likely “wakes up in the morning, he reads a headline on MSNBC or CNN--”
“Breitbart,” quipped Booker.
“And then he changes his mind about the legislation,” Schatz continued. “There is zero chance that he’s read the House bill, and there’s zero chance that he will read the Senate bill. There is 100 percent chance he will sign those bills into law.”
White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday he was unsure whether Trump had seen the Senate health care bill. "But I know that they've been working extremely hard, and the president has been giving his input and his ideas and feedback to them, and he's very excited about where this thing is headed," Spicer told reporters.
Back at the Capitol, Democrats largely welcomed the maneuvers by their colleagues. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said he was disappointed that a hearing his Judiciary Committee sub-panel planned for Tuesday was scrapped by the protest but added that "I was in a very small minority."
Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) saw a Tuesday hearing on a top priority of his cut short by his party's procedural tactics, but he declared that "we just can't make it easy for these guys to take health insurance away from 23 million people."
Democrats' pushback against Obamacare repeal is breaking through the frenetic news cycle "to some degree," Kaine said. "It's hard to completely break through until they reveal what they're working on. So we've got to build up the momentum, so when they reveal it, people are very focused on it."
The House has found a potential constitutional issue with the Senate's recently passed sanctions package targeting Russia and Iran, raising the prospect of a delay that could allow President Donald Trump's White House to secure its preferred changes to the bill.
The House has held off on referring the sanctions bill to a committee, a GOP aide said Tuesday, while staff reviews whether it runs afoul of a requirement in the U.S. Constitution that any revenue-raising legislation start in the lower chamber. The so-called "blue-slip" issue could slow the momentum of the Senate's bipartisan bill — which passed 98-2 and includes new handcuffs on Trump's ability to ease penalties against Russia.
Story Continued Below
A stuck Russia sanctions bill would help the White House, which planned to ask its House GOP allies for a different approach that would preserve Trump's power to work on more collaborative relations with Vladimir Putin's government. Democrats slammed the House GOP's constitutional concerns as an attempt to water down or stop legislation that would constrain Trump.
“House Republicans are considering using a procedural excuse to hide what they’re really doing: covering for a president who has been far too soft on Russia," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement.
The House Foreign Affairs Committee's top Democrat, New York Rep. Eliot Engel, described the Republican "blue-slip" review as "nothing but a delay tactic, and the public shouldn't be fooled by complex-sounding parliamentary procedure. If Republican leadership says we can't act on the Senate bill, here's an easy solution: Let’s introduce an identical House version and we can vote on that instead."
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), a chief architect of his chamber's popular sanctions deal, told reporters Tuesday that "we think we addressed" any constitutional hurdles but that he would follow up on the issue, which was first reported by the Washington Post.
“Anytime there’s issues relative to money or spending, obviously you've got to deal with" blue-slip concerns, Corker added.
A Corker spokeswoman said by email that Foreign Relations staff and House Ways and Means Committee staff worked together "while crafting the legislation to address procedural hurdles in the House."
"They have concerns with one of the final provisions, and now that we fully understand the issue raised today, we are working closely with them to further resolve the matter," the spokeswoman added. "We are confident we can find a path forward."
Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the foreign relations panel, also called on the House to pass their own version of the sanctions bill or add its language to another House bill to resolve the problem.
“You can always use" the blue-slip issue as a way to quietly quash a bill, Cardin told reporters. "But there is no question: They’ve had this problem in the past and they have quickly resolved it."
The sanctions bill also imposes new penalties on entities connected to Iran's ballistic missile program as well as Tehran's human rights violations and support for terrorist groups. The Russia provisions added to the package would allow Congress to block Trump from easing or ending sanctions against Moscow, while adding new punishment in a direct response to cyberattacks during the 2016 election — meddling that Trump has previously dismissed.
An aide on House Foreign Affairs said that the panel would work with GOP leadership and other committees of jurisdiction on the constitutional issue with the Senate's sanctions legislation.
Seung Min Kim contributed to this report.
Several House Democrats were on a flight from the West Coast that was diverted due to a medical emergency, and the lawmakers could miss votes Tuesday night.
The California Democrats were on an American Airlines flight from Los Angeles to Washington when the flight was forced to make an emergency landing in Kansas City at about 2:30 p.m. Tuesday.
Story Continued Below
Reps. Linda Sanchez, Tony Cardenas, Alan Lowenthal and Nanette Barragán are all on the flight. Other members are also said to be on the plane but have not been confirmed by POLITICO.
The medical emergency did not involve any of the members, according to two Democratic sources. The lawmakers are scheduled to be on a flight from Kansas City that should land right around the time of Tuesday night’s only scheduled House votes at 6:30 p.m.
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker says Congress should consider legislation making it illegal for Americans to travel to North Korea, a day after the death of a U.S. college student who had been imprisoned there.
“It's something we should seriously look at, because it affects our national security,” the Tennessee Republican said in an interview Tuesday. “It puts us in a very precarious situation. We have three Americans there now. We're constantly having to get people out of the country.”
Story Continued Below
Corker’s Foreign Relations gavel gives him major sway over legislation dealing with U.S. travel abroad, and his remarks mean Congress is likely to at least explore the issue. The State Department is also looking at imposing new restrictions on U.S. travel to North Korea, which does not have diplomatic relations with the United States.
“We have been evaluating whether we should put some type of travel visa restriction on North Korea,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said at a House hearing last week. “We have not come to a final conclusion, but we are considering it.”
The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Ben Cardin of Maryland, said he was open to the idea of a legal prohibition on travel. “I am sympathetic to taking steps that would protect Americans,” he said Tuesday. “Clearly we cannot assure the safety of Americans when we see what happened to that student.”
Cardin added that he planned to talk to his staff about the legal implications of making it illegal to travel to North Korea. “What does it do about humanitarian aid?” he asked. “What does it do about some of the other issues? I'd like to know a little bit more about that.”
In the House, Reps. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) and Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) are already pushing a bill, the North Korea Travel Control Act, which would bar U.S. citizens from going to North Korea for tourism.
“The North Korean regime has shown once again that it is perfectly willing to treat Americans who visit their nation as hostages to extract concessions from the United States, and to put their lives in danger,” Schiff said in a statement Tuesday.
The State Department now advises Americans against traveling to North Korea, but such travel is not prohibited.
U.S. citizens who travel there “are at serious risk of arrest and long-term detention under North Korea’s system of law enforcement,” says a warning on the State Department’s website. “This system imposes unduly harsh sentences for actions that would not be considered crimes in the United States.”
Three Americans are currently being held by the Kim Jong Un regime, which often tries to use U.S. prisoners as leverage to extract concessions.
Otto Warmbier, a college student who was detained in North Korea in January 2016, was returned to the United States this month in a coma. He died on Monday.
Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) said Tuesday he was not ready to back a legal prohibition on travel to North Korea, and that he first believed the U.S. government should warn Americans it was not responsible for their safety if they choose to go there.
“I think first we need to warn Americans that they should not go and that their lives are endangered if they go,” McCain said.
Nahal Toosi contributed to this report.
Members of the Senate are scheduled to be briefed on lawmakers' personal safety Tuesday following last week's shooting at a congressional baseball practice that nearly killed House Majority Whip Steve Scalise.
The briefing is scheduled for 4 p.m. Tuesday at the Capitol, and will be led by Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Frank Larkin and Matthew Verderosa, the chief of Capitol Police.
Story Continued Below
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) requested the briefing on behalf of their members.
House lawmakers got a similar briefing last week.
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) said a "general fund" to provide security funding for members and their district staffs is one of the options being considered as congressional leaders mull ways to ramp up protection following the shooting.
Other ideas floated include allowing members to use their annual allowances or campaign funds to hire security. But Hoyer said he thinks a general fund, under the umbrella of the legislative branch budget, is the best idea.
"I think that this is a public responsibility," he told reporters Tuesday afternoon. People ought not to fear running for the Congress of the United States, being elected to serve their public and thereby becoming targets."
Hoyer met with Scalise and Crystal Griner, the Capitol Police special agent wounded by the shooting, at the hospital Tuesday morning. Hoyer said both were in good spirits and Griner is expected to be released from the hospital Wednesday.
Senate Republicans are planning for a July vote to raise the debt ceiling, according to senators and aides.
But House Republicans aren't prepared to show their hand yet, although they also hope to resolve the issue before the August recess begins. Yet with a possible health care vote in July — if the Senate passes a bill — top House Republicans are worried that the two issues could become entangled politically, making two already difficult votes even tougher.
Story Continued Below
Though the Treasury Department has said Congress can likely wait until September to avoid default, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his lieutenants are increasingly disposed to clearing the Senate’s plate as much as possible before heading home for August recess. That would also likely mean decoupling the debt ceiling from a potential government shutdown fight in September.
It’s not clear what exactly such a bill would look like, but members of both parties are interested in a broad spending deal that would avoid the blunt budget cuts of sequestration. A “clean” debt ceiling increase — one with no policy strings or cuts attached — might be a problem for a GOP majority filled with fiscal conservatives.
There is also an emerging consensus among Hill leaders that the debt ceiling — currently $20 trillion — should be raised by an amount large enough to preclude another vote for several years. This would make it politically dicey for fiscal conservatives, yet it would be easier for most rank-and-file lawmakers to just have one vote this Congress.
“I’d like to see that done earlier,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas when asked about lifting the debt ceiling in September. “I’m hoping there will be a negotiation on spending caps. Maybe it will be part of that.”
On Monday, Republican Senate staffers were provided new schedule guidance laying out that the preferred debt deadline is before the August break.
In the House, GOP leaders have not formally settled on a plan to raise the debt ceiling, according to multiple sources. The topic, which is toxic for many in the more right-leaning chamber, is expected to be discussed Wednesday morning during a GOP Conference meeting on the budget and appropriations process.
Conservatives in the House Freedom Caucus have called for spending cuts to accompany any increase in the nation’s borrowing limit, and more than a few GOP leadership allies have bristled at the idea of doing a clean debt ceiling increase, as Democrats have demanded in previous years.
But GOP leaders in the House are eyeing what’s feasible in the chamber across Capitol Hill. And since Senate Democrats will never go for spending cuts, the idea will likely remain a far-off hard-liner dream.
There may be some rank-and-file support among House Republicans to piece together a bipartisan budget deal to raise spending caps, as is being discussed in the Senate. More than 141 defense-minded House Republicans signed a letter in early May asking GOP leaders to raise the cap on the Pentagon budget.
Senate Democrats would be loath to support a military boost without increases for domestic programs as well. Some GOP defense hawks may be willing to negotiate to do both. It’s unclear, however, whether they would want to link that to a debt ceiling vote.
Sen. Bob Corker has not yet seen the health care legislation currently being crafted by his Republican colleagues, the Tennessee lawmaker said Tuesday, but he expects to get his hands on it Thursday and looks forward “to diving into that substance” of the bill.
Senate Republicans have kept a tight lid on their efforts to write legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, creating it via a working group and keeping the language a secret even from other GOP senators. Corker told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” that he expects the legislation to be made public on Thursday and for a vote to take place roughly a week later.
Story Continued Below
The process, which has not included hearings before the relevant Senate committees, is not what Corker would have preferred, he said. But he still intends to judge the legislation based on its merits.
“I'll tell you this. We will work around the clock to make sure that we understand what's in it, and we'll just see,” he said. “I don't want to prejudge, and, you know, I would have liked, as you already know, for this to be a more open process and to have committee hearings, but that's not what we're doing. At the end of the day, that doesn't preclude my responsibilities as a senator to either vote yes or no based on the substance that's in it.”
While Corker was cautiously critical of his party’s process for the repeal-and-replace measure, Senate Democrats have loudly complained about a lack of transparency, staging a talk-a-thon on the Senate floor on Monday.
Corker stopped short of saying that the planned week will provide enough time for lawmakers to understand the health care proposal from Senate Republicans. But his GOP colleagues have kept him in the loop, Corker said, such that “I have a sense of where this is going and understand the rubs that exist.”
"I am going to vote for this bill or vote against this bill determined based on how it affects people in Tennessee, and actually how it affects our nation,” he said. “I have a sense of where this is going, and I know that, you know, the leadership is having various aspects of this scored, and it should be out there, it looks like, about a week before a vote takes place. I think it's planned to be out, language and all, on Thursday.”
Congress received mostly high marks for its response to a shooting last week at a Republican baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia, according to a new poll released Monday, although those surveyed said overall civility in political debate has deteriorated.
Fifty-three percent of respondents to the CBS News poll said they approve of Congress’s response to last week’s shooting, which left five people, including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.), injured. Twenty-nine percent said they disapproved of the response from Congress.
Story Continued Below
The response from President Donald Trump, which included multiple posts to Twitter, a televised statement and a visit to Scalise in the hospital, earned the approval of 46 percent of those polled, while 36 percent said they disapproved of it.
Beyond the response to last week’s shooting, 68 percent of respondents said that the tone and civility of political debate in the U.S. is getting worse and 75 percent said it is encouraging violence among some people. Opinions of the state of political discourse are shared on both sides of the political spectrum, with roughly two-thirds of liberals and conservatives, respectively, responding that civility is diminishing.
Elsewhere in the poll, a third of those surveyed said the president’s response to the ongoing investigations into possible ties between Trump associates and the Kremlin, which Trump has labeled a “witch hunt,” has negatively affected their view of him. Just 28 percent of respondents said they approve of his handling of the investigations, while 63 percent said they disapprove.
Overall, the president’s approval rating in the poll released Monday sits at 36 percent, a low point for that number in CBS polls taken since Trump’s inauguration. Fifty-seven percent said they disapprove of the president.
The CBS News poll was conducted from June 15-18, reaching 1,117 adults nationwide via landlines and cell phones. The margin of error was plus-or-minus four points.
Leaders on the Senate Judiciary Committee, who are investigating the circumstances around the firing of former FBI Director James Comey, will meet with special counsel Robert Mueller this week, three congressional aides confirmed Tuesday morning.
The committee’s chairman, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), and its top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, announced last week that they will launch a probe that examines not only what led to Comey’s surprise firing last month, but also any attempts to influence FBI investigations during the Obama administration. The meeting was first reported by Reuters.
Story Continued Below
The meeting, scheduled for Wednesday, will include Grassley, Feinstein and Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), according to one of the aides.
Key senators on the Intelligence Committee, which is leading the congressional investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 campaign, had a private meeting with Mueller last week to ensure their respective probes don’t conflict with each other.
But members of the Judiciary Committee, which has broad oversight of the Justice Department and the FBI, have been seeking their own ways to make sure that the congressional probes and Mueller’s investigation can run simultaneously.
“It’s a possibility, as we saw in things like congressional grants of immunity to witnesses who then can’t be prosecuted,” Whitehouse said in an interview last week about the potential for the probes to run into each other. “It’s also possible, if congressional testimony outs a cooperating witness who otherwise people don’t know is cooperating.”
Whitehouse added, “There are a few areas where it’s possible for there to be some conflict, and so that’s why we’ve asked for the Department of Justice to set up a deconfliction apparatus of some kind so we can talk to each other.”
A Judiciary subcommittee led by Whitehouse and Graham, which has already been looking into the FBI’s role in the Russia probe, is scheduled to hold a hearing Tuesday afternoon looking at concurrent criminal and congressional investigations.
Ivanka Trump is set to meet Tuesday morning with Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and others to discuss paid family leave, according to two sources with knowledge of the plans.
The meeting comes as the Trump administration pushes a proposal for six weeks of mandatory paid leave for mothers and fathers. That is an unpopular proposal with many in a Republican-controlled Congress, but the idea has gained traction among more moderate members.
Story Continued Below
Fischer and Rubio have been leaders within their party on family leave. Fischer reintroduced a bill this year that would give tax credits to companies that offer paid leave for employees. Rubio also supported the idea during his run for president in 2016.
Ivanka Trump's proposal, however, would impose a mandate on businesses. That idea, which is included in her father's budget proposal, hasn't been embraced by Republicans.
The issue is one of personal importance to Ivanka Trump. She has sought to sell her own left-leaning workplace policies in a White House run by conservatives. Privately, she has told people that the paid leave policy in Trump's budget is just a placeholder, and even hinted she'd be willing to push for something more ambitious.
"They’re not too stuck on the details," said Aparna Mathur, an economic policy scholar with the American Enterprise Institute who met with Ivanka Trump on the issue earlier this month.
Democrats have said the proposal is inadequate. But the final version may depend largely on which Republican the White House gets to carry the bill. Based on Tuesday's meeting, Rubio and Fischer would appear to be top contenders.
Even as Senate Democrats began a Monday night talk-a-thon designed to spotlight the GOP’s still-secret Obamacare repeal plan, some of their own questioned the party's other potential procedural tactic to block committees from meeting this week.
The skepticism within the caucus underscores the risk facing Senate Democrats as they launch an all-out battle against a Republican health care bill they have had zero power to influence. Democrats want to use every procedural tool at their disposal to slow the GOP’s progress, but one of their more arcane options — the power to block committee meetings two hours after the Senate goes into session — risks inviting Republicans to paint them as heedlessly obstructionist.
Story Continued Below
“I do think we need to do something to try to get some input on this crazy damn health bill that they’re doing,” Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said in an interview. But Tester held back from supporting a halt to committee work starting on Tuesday: “I don’t know if that’s the right thing to do. I think we should still try to be doing our business.”
Two high-profile Tuesday hearings could get sandbagged by a Democratic blockade using the so-called “two-hour rule,” if it is invoked: the Foreign Relations Committee’s discussion of presidential authorizations for the use of military force and a Judiciary Committee look at past congressional and criminal investigations. If the tactic is used Wednesday, it could prematurely cut off an Intelligence Committee hearing on Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Monday night declined to confirm that Democrats would begin holding up committee work, but other senior Democratic sources said that those objections would happen on Tuesday.
Rhode Island Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, the top Democrat on the Judiciary subpanel hosting former Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) for a Tuesday look at past congressional investigations, said that “I hope that we’ll find a way to let the hearing go forward. But we’ll see.”
The reluctance to endorse a stoppage of committee work on Tuesday appears to be a minority view among Democrats, most of whom said no tactic should be out of bounds when it comes to protesting the GOP’s clandestine drafting of a health care bill that will have a huge impact on the public. Senators offered multiple unanimous consent requests Monday night aimed at forcing the Obamacare repeal bill through the regular committee process that Republicans have sidestepped this year, though all were blocked by the GOP.
“We have to make the point that this isn’t the way to legislate,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said in an interview, calling for any tactic possible to draw attention to the GOP’s “bizarre” avoidance of public hearings.
“We’ll get to the Russia hearing,” Feinstein added. “How many people are going to die if we don’t do the right thing [on health care]?”
But moderate Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), one of the GOP’s top targets in the midterm elections and a member of his party’s leadership, warned that Democrats should not be responding to Republican exclusion on health care with hardline tactics of their own.
“I don’t like any of this idea — any of these ideas,” Manchin said, “First of all, Republicans not involving the Democrats is wrong. It’s purely wrong. Does this highlight it? I don’t know. My gut tells me back home... it just makes it look like if we’re not doing anything.”
The Foreign Relations hearing on congressional approval of military operations is a top priority for Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who has joined Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) to pitch a new authorization that would cover operations against the Islamic State, al-Qaeda and the Taliban. The intelligence committee’s Russia hearing is a rare public opportunity for members to advance their bipartisan investigation of President Donald Trump’s ties to Moscow.
Still, even Democratic members of the committees where business might get blocked starting Tuesday called for the Senate’s routine business to slow amid a health care process that’s been anything but routine.
“Many people are really focused on [Obamacare repeal] because it hits them where they live," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who sits on Judiciary. “ I’m always reluctant to shut down anything, but refusing to have hearings and provide a text or draft of a bill is like shutting down democracy.”
Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) acknowledged in an interview that "some people are enthusiastic about shutting down hearings. Others are less so."
“Look, we don’t want to shut down hearings — but we will,” Schatz said. “Everybody has a good relationship with their chair. But it is hard to defend staying in the regular order and maintaining a sense of bipartisanship when something so egregious is happening."
America in 2017 is a place where a mass shooting at a congressional baseball practice is a surprise, but not a shock.
Just like the rest of what happened Wednesday.
Story Continued Below
The thoughts and prayers echo statements that came after other shootings. President Donald Trump delivered a sober and unifying message from the White House. House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi gave warm, embracing speeches on the floor.
But pretty much everyone expects that Trump will tweet something inflammatory before long. And that Ryan and Pelosi will be back attacking each other by next week, if not by the end of this week. And that any big show of changing up the congressional baseball game to be East vs. West instead of Republicans vs. Democrats will have about the same lasting effect than when senators went as bipartisan pairs to the State of the Union the week after Gabby Giffords was shot.
Meanwhile, the question now looms of how the mainstream left responds to the act of violence coming from within its own ranks, even as Bernie Sanders, whose presidential campaign the shooter supported online and on the trail, issued a statement saying he is “sickened by this despicable act” and pleading for nonviolence.
In Washington, it was yet another day on edge about what happens next, with the distinctive swirl of factors around the Trump White House, like a son who quickly tweeted about the connection between the shooting and the Kathy Griffin photo and a Central Park production of “Julius Caesar” that he’s been raging about, and the president had White House counselor Kellyanne Conway promoting unconfirmed information about the shooter before the White House made a statement.
America in 2017 is also a place where people decry the shooting of House Whip Steve Scalise, two staffers and two Capitol police officers, and swear this time will be different. But they've sworn that before — and then, after a politically acceptable period of public self-recrimination and calls for a change, start churning the anger again, harder. People tweet about murdering and raping political opponents. They show up at rallies with guns.
They are not discouraged.
“I can only hope that Democrats do tone down the rhetoric,” Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.) said in a local radio interview, which didn’t exactly match Ryan declaring to his colleagues in the House, “an attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
"This could be the first political rhetorical terrorist attack," Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) said on CNN.
Giffords was shot in the head at a constituent event in her district all of six years ago.
“Don’t politicize it!” shouted the people who didn’t want to talk about gun control or silencer regulations, though as many gun control advocates point out, insisting that gun control can’t be discussed in the wake of a gun incident is itself a politicization.
“Terrorism” has also become a politicized word, with debates over whether the racially motivated shooting at the Mother Emanuel church in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015 was a terrorist attack, whether the San Bernardino shooter with hazy ISIS ties was a terrorist attack, whether the white man who shot two Indian immigrants in Kansas in February was a terrorist.
“We may have our differences, but we do well in times like these to remember that everyone who serves in our nation’s capital is here because above all, they love our country,” said the president on Wednesday — though this is the same president who made encouraging violence against protesters a standard of his campaign rallies last year.
Partisans spend hours bulging at each other on social media and in person, raging about each other’s idiocy and treachery. If you don’t agree, you’re not American, or you’re not human. This is the same country where a North Carolina Republican Party office was firebombed. This is the same city where a man started shooting up a pizzeria in Northwest Washington six months ago because online conspiracy mongers had convinced him that John Podesta was part of a child sex ring being run out of the basement.
Waiting for the shooter to be identified, people held their breath and prepared their talking points to slot him into. If he had an Arabic name. If he had ties to white supremacist groups. If he had political statements on his Facebook page.
James Hodgkinson is dead, but now his life and police record and social media accounts can be attached to whatever narratives people want.
“We can all agree that we are blessed to be Americans, that our children deserve to grow up in a nation of safety and peace, and that we are strongest when we are unified and when we work together for the common good,” Trump said Wednesday.
“We do not shed our humanity when we enter this chamber,” said Ryan after Trump spoke.
“We are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other,” said Pelosi after Ryan spoke.
Then there was the reaction in the less august settings.
"A Democrat campaign volunteer who deeply believed the president and his advisers were traitors tried to murder Republican congressmen,” said Michael Caputo, a Republican operative fired from Trump’s campaign last year, in a radio interview he had someone promoting on his behalf. “For nine months, Democratic Party leaders have lied, regularly calling me and my friends traitors, so forgive me if I'm not more tender with their karma in Alexandria."
The Senate Judiciary Committee is launching a wide-ranging probe into the circumstances behind James Comey’s firing as FBI director, as well as any attempts to influence FBI investigations under the Obama administration.
The committee’s chairman, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), laid out his plan in a letter made public Wednesday in response to requests from Democrats to investigate potential obstruction of justice surrounding Comey’s dismissal by President Donald Trump last month.
Story Continued Below
“The Judiciary Committee has an obligation to fully investigate any alleged improper partisan interference in law enforcement investigations,” Grassley wrote to his Democratic counterpart, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California. “It is my view that fully investigating the facts, circumstances, and rationale for Mr. Comey’s removal will provide us the opportunity to do that on a cooperative, bipartisan basis.”
In the letter, Grassley also stressed that the committee is obligated to look into the Justice Department’s handling last year of the probe surrounding Hillary Clinton’s private e-mail use, citing Comey’s testimony last week that he was concerned DOJ “could not credibly complete the investigation and decline prosecution without grievous damage to the American people’s confidence in the justice system.”
“There should be no improper interference with FBI investigations to favor any elected official or candidate of either party,” Grassley wrote to Feinstein. “The Committee has an obligation to pursue all evidence of such misconduct.”
Grassley and Feinstein met late Tuesday to discuss the Russia matter following testimony from Attorney General Jeff Sessions before the Senate Intelligence Committee, according to a Grassley spokesman. The Judiciary Committee has oversight of the Justice Department and the FBI.
One year ago, Sen. Chris Murphy sprang into action almost immediately after a gun massacre at an Orlando nightclub — accusing Congress of an “unconscionable deafening silence” and launching a 15-hour filibuster on the Senate floor.
But the gun-control advocate who once argued that lawmakers should put forward “legislative action within an hour of a shooting” was more circumspect on Wednesday after a shooting at a congressional baseball practice in the suburbs of Washington. One tragic incident, he acknowledged, won’t move the needle — even one that affected one of their own, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.).
Story Continued Below
“This is very personal. I mean, Steve is a friend of mine and frankly my time this morning has been dedicated just to making sure that my friends are OK,” Murphy said. “The way you talk certainly is affected by the fact that your priority is that the people you know are still alive.”
The Connecticut Democrat continued: “We’re beyond the place where Washington responds to mass shootings. I mean, we don’t. We don’t. After Orlando and Sandy Hook, that’s clearly not how people’s minds work here.”
The shooting Wednesday morning on a sleepy suburban baseball field — injuring Scalise and four others — horrified Capitol Hill, which has cycled through repeated rounds of tense battles over gun policy after mass shootings in recent years.
But on Wednesday, the tone among even the most ardent proponents of stricter gun laws was dramatically different. In multiple interviews, several Democratic lawmakers urged that no, today was not the day to revive the dormant gun control debate. It was too soon, it hit too close to home — and lawmakers simply didn’t want to stand accused of politicizing a shooting that injured a colleague and friend.
“We don’t know the facts,” pointed out Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who served as his state’s governor during the Virginia Tech shootings a decade ago.
“You know, today is not the day,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who helped steer the debate over background checks as Judiciary Committee chairman in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre. “People know my record … but today is not the day for that. I’m praying for the victims. I’m praying for the police officers.”
“Today we need to focus on what happened and our prayers have to be with the injured,” said Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.). “We can talk about other issues in the future.”
Congressional Democrats have taken notably sharper and more aggressive tactics in recent years when it comes to advocating for tougher gun laws. The Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando spurred the most visible action — not only Murphy’s filibuster but a sit-in led by House Democrats in the chamber that lasted more than 25 hours and captured national attention.
But Democratic lawmakers tiptoed around the gun issue on Wednesday. Notably, several Democrats asked to speak without attribution for fear of being seen as insensitive so soon after one of their colleagues was shot. They acknowledged privately that if the shooting of another colleague — former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.) — and the mass shooting in Newtown didn’t move the dial, this won’t either.
Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat and another advocate of stricter gun laws, also spoke about a “feeling of resignation” for his party in the gun debate.
“Until there’s significant changes around the country or within Congress, we know each other’s positions and we know they don’t change,” Durbin said. “There’s a fatigue. We know each other’s arguments. We know what’s going to happen.”
Democrats say they’re not abandoning their push for tougher gun laws, but they didn’t think it was appropriate to talk about it too quickly after Wednesday’s shooting, which occurred around 7 a.m. during the GOP lawmakers’ practice in advance of the annual congressional baseball game Thursday.
“I think that both sides of the aisle are going to be pretty disciplined on just focusing on [the victims] today,” Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-Calif.) said. “And then tomorrow we’ll probably, hopefully respectfully, get back to the debates of what kind of policies we should have.”
Even lawmakers who have seen an uptick in death threats against them recently like Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) weren’t ready to revive the gun debate. Green became the target of lynching threats after calling for President Donald Trump’s impeachment.
“I think these are issues that I would feel more comfortable discussing a little bit more removed from what happened today,” he told reporters following a briefing for House lawmakers on Wednesday’s shooting. “I don’t want someone to think that I’m seizing on this as an opportunity to get into a debate that may seem political in nature.”
There were other differences between shootings that prompted gun control pushes from Democrats and what happened Wednesday, such as that the massacres in Newtown, San Bernardino and Orlando were tragedies of a significantly larger scale, with upwards of dozens of fatalities.
In Wednesday’s shooting, only the suspect — identified by law enforcement officials as James Hodgkinson, 66, of Belleville, Illinois — has died. Hodgkinson had often published social media posts lashing out at Trump and the GOP, stoking concern from Republican lawmakers about whether they will be targeted because of their party label.
Last June, Democrats in the Senate prompted the most sweeping debate over gun policy since the aftermath of Sandy Hook, when the chamber considered restricting firearms access to those with ties to terrorism and to bolster background checks. But the deeply divided chamber rejected all four measures put on the Senate floor for a vote.
Three years before that, Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) teamed up on a comprehensive background checks proposal in the wake of Sandy Hook. It was ultimately filibustered by nearly all Republicans and a handful of Democrats in the Senate.
On Wednesday, Manchin downplayed speculation about whether the shooting would prompt any concrete legislative action tightening rules on gun ownership.
"It always spurs that," Manchin said of a new gun control push. "I just don't get overexcited anymore."
Another Republican who backed Manchin-Toomey — Sen. John McCain of Arizona — said Wednesday that reviving a gun debate would “be fine with me, whenever they want to.” But most other GOP lawmakers have long resisted enacting new and tougher firearms restrictions.
“I own a gun; I don’t go around shooting people with it. Bottom line: People get shot, run over by cars, stabbed. It’s just a crazy world,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). “If we had that debate it’d end like it always ends. We’re not going to tell law-abiding people they can’t own a gun because of some nut job.”
Indeed, as legislative battles over gun policy raged in the Senate, the GOP-controlled House did not take up firearms measures on the floor, even in the aftermath of Orlando. A House panel on Wednesday had been scheduled to take up legislation making it easier to purchase gun silencers — the most significant movement on gun rights measures under the new Trump administration — but that hearing was postponed.
The legislative standstill in Washington has forced supporters of additional gun restrictions to confront a difficult reality on Capitol Hill — is it even possible in this political climate to enact tougher laws while balancing constitutional rights to own firearms?
“I don’t know who this person is,” Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said, referring to the shooting suspect. “But obviously someone who is very sick and if he had a criminal background … then yeah, shame on us. But Second Amendment is the Second Amendment.”
Adam Cancryn contributed to this report.
Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is set to testify publicly next Wednesday before the House Intelligence Committee as part of its investigation into Russia’s election meddling, according to a congressional source.
Johnson appeared earlier this week before the Senate Intelligence Committee, but the session was closed.
Story Continued Below
Next week’s hearing comes as the House Intelligence panel begins working to schedule private depositions with key witnesses. An impasse earlier this month between Democrats and Republicans on the panel led to about 10 witness interviews being put on hold.
The House and Senate Intelligence panels are both looking into the possibility of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, as is a Justice Department investigation led by special counsel Robert Mueller.
Mueller on Wednesday met with the Senate panel to “deconflict” their investigations. Mueller is also expected to meet with House investigators.
Johnson, who served under President Barack Obama as Homeland Security chief from 2013 until earlier this year, is likely to face questions about Russian attempts to hack U.S. election systems.
Former President Barack Obama reached out to Sen. Jeff Flake Wednesday morning in the wake of the shooting at the GOP's congressional baseball game practice to extend his "best wishes and prayers" for the victims, the Arizona Republican said.
Flake was among the Republicans gathered on an Alexandria, Va., baseball field when a shooter opened fire, wounding House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) and several others. Obama maintained a good working relationship with Flake, who flew out to Arizona with the former president in 2011 after the shooting of then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.).
Story Continued Below
"This is particularly raw for those of us in Arizona," Flake told reporters of Tuesday's shooting, adding that Obama asked him to let Scalise know the former president is thinking about him. "He went through this a couple of times," Flake added of Obama.
Obama called no other lawmaker besides Flake and did so as a friend, according to a person familiar with the call. The former president and Flake did not talk about gun control or any policy issues, focusing only on the Republican senator's condition after the shooting.
Edward-Isaac Dovere contributed to this report.
The Senate on Wednesday overwhelmingly approved a bipartisan package of new Russia sanctions that also lets Congress block President Donald Trump from easing or ending penalties against Moscow, the year's most significant GOP-imposed restriction on the White House.
The 97-2 vote on the Russia sanctions plan capped a week of talks that demonstrated cross-aisle collaboration that's become increasingly rare as Trump and the GOP push to repeal Obamacare without any Democratic votes. Senators merged the sanctions package with a bipartisan Iran sanctions bill that's on track for passage as soon as this week, complicating the politics of any future veto threat from the Trump administration.
Story Continued Below
"It’s particularly significant that a bipartisan coalition is seeking to reestablish Congress, not the president, as the final arbiter of sanctions relief, considering that this administration has been too eager — far too eager, in my mind — to put sanctions relief on the table," Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), who pressed hard for the strongest possible anti-Russia bill, said in a floor speech. "These additional sanctions will also send a powerful, bipartisan statement that Russia and any other nation who might try to interfere with our elections will be punished."
But the Senate's deal faces a murky future in the House and with the White House, which has yet to say where it stands on congressional review of sanctions that would tie Trump's hands on future relations with Vladimir Putin's government.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson declined to endorse the deal for a second straight day on Wednesday while emphasizing the importance of "a constructive dialogue" with Russia. Although "Russia must be held accountable for its meddling in U.S. elections," Tillerson told House Foreign Affairs Committee members, "I would urge Congress to ensure any legislation allows the president to have the flexibility to adjust sanctions to meet the needs of what is always an evolving diplomatic situation."
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), a leading negotiator of the sanctions deal and a Tillerson ally, said earlier this week that he believed the legislation would get Trump's signature. Democrats, however, are also wary of House GOP attempts to change their popular, bipartisan agreement to punish Putin.
"I know that some people in the White House are pushing back" on the Senate sanctions framework, Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown, the Banking Committee's top Democrat and another key player in the talks, told reporters. "People in the White House, we hear, are making calls in the House to try to stop it, slow it, weaken it, dilute it."
The deal, which adds new sanctions against Russia's defense and military-intelligence sectors while codifying existing sanctions into law, drew opposition only from GOP Sens. Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky. Democratic Sen. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland missed the vote.
Arizona Sen. John McCain, among the upper chamber's strongest Russia hawks, rallied support among fellow Republicans for striking back after Russia's cyberattacks during the 2016 election — which Trump has dismissed repeatedly in the past.
"Vladimir Putin’s brazen attack on our democracy is a flagrant demonstration of his disdain and disrespect for our nation," McCain said on the floor ahead of the vote. "This should not just outrage every American, but it should compel us to action."
Yelp has slapped a warning notice on the business page of James T. Hodgkinson, the alleged shooter in the congressional baseball game attack, after it got deluged with sarcastic and politically charged reviews following news of the Wednesday shooting.
Visitors to the page for JTH Inspections are greeted by a red pop-up box and the rest of the page obscured. The "Active Cleanup Alert" tells users that the business "has recently been in the news in connection with a recent tragedy. As a result, people may be coming to this page to share their thoughts and concerns."
Story Continued Below
Laurent Crenshaw, director of public policy for Yelp, told POLITICO that "our priority is ensuring there is honest, first-hand content on the platform, and notifying users when we think there's not." Yelp's terms of service permit reviews based only on customer's direct experiences with the relevant business.
"Right now, if you go to the page, you see people leaving snide remarks related to the shooting. So our user operation team is going through the page, and reviewing and removing reviews" that are tied to Wednesday's events, he said.
The pop-up box counsels Yelp users that the company takes the such steps "regardless of the business and regardless of the event at issue in order to avoid injecting our own varied viewpoints into the debate," saying that, "Unfortunately, that means that we need to remove comments even when we agree with them."
Social media pages tied to controversies often become gathering points for those eager to comment on the events. Yelp has posted similar warnings in the past, including for Comet Ping Pong, the Washington pizza restaurant that was the target of a fake news story about Hillary Clinton and a pedophilia ring.
Yelp also alerts users to businesses it thinks are especially likely to sue customers over negative reviews, Crenshaw said.
Special counsel Robert Mueller met with Senate Intelligence Committee leaders on Wednesday to deconflict their investigations, Chairman Richard Burr said in an interview.
The meeting included Burr, Mueller and Intelligence Committee ranking member Mark Warner of Virginia, Burr said. The goal is to separate Mueller's investigation from the panel's probe of Russia's influence on the 2016 elections.
Story Continued Below
"I'm going to acknowledge that we had a meeting with special counsel Mueller. But I'm not going to get into the content," Warner told reporters.
Burr separately told reporters he now has "clarity" on whether or not he will receive the memos written by James Comey that detail the former FBI director's conversations with President Donald Trump. Comey has alleged Trump told him it was his "hope" that Comey would let go of an investigation into ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Both Burr and Warner would not say whether the committee has the memos.
The chairman said he's "always felt" that the two investigations would continue to run without conflicting with each other and that he'll stay in touch with Mueller to make sure it stays that way.
"We'll be in communication on any aspects that might bleed over," Burr said.
House Republicans earlier this year discussed ramping up security in light of new anti-Donald Trump and anti-Republican anger on the far-left.
Now, they fear their worst nightmare has come true: a politically motivated shooting.
Story Continued Below
Republicans on Capitol Hill are fretting that their colleagues were targeted by a gunman during a Wednesday congressional baseball practice because of their party affiliation — or because of an anti-Trump sentiment pulsing through the nation. Many are asking about additional security, fearing they could be next, while also calling for civility to be restored to an increasingly divisive political discourse.
Speaking to reporters just hours after the shooting, Rep. Jeff Duncan recounted an exchange he had with the gunman before he opened fire — and before the South Carolina Republican realized the man was a threat. Duncan said the shooter stopped him in the parking lot by the field as he was leaving team practice early and asked him if Republicans or Democrats were playing.
Duncan told him it was the Republican team, and minutes later, the man opened fire.
Asked if he believed his colleagues were singled out because of party affiliation, Duncan said he did.
“Based on the question he asked me, I would make that assumption because he asked me if this team was the Republican or Democrat team privately,” he said. “I responded that it was the Republican team practicing, and he proceeded to shoot Republicans.”
He added: “Take that for what it’s worth.”
Republicans echoed Duncan’s sentiment throughout the day, as news dripped out that the Facebook page of the gunman — identified as James T. Hodgkinson, a former home inspector from Belleville, Ill. — was awash in anti-Trump posts. Rep Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), for instance, brought up the current partisan political discourse as a cause behind the shooting.
“This political rhetoric and political discourse that has led to hate, has led to gunfire,” Davis said. “I never thought I’d go to baseball practice for charity, and have to dodge bullets. This has got to stop, and it’s gotta stop today.”
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), speaking from the floor of the Capitol with a Tennessee Volunteers baseball hat on, called for civility on Fox News when asked whether the shooting was politically motivated: “We come up here and represent the people of the United States, and that’s very sad that someone would take it upon themselves to open a weapon and fire upon anybody of any political party or any persuasion. It's very sad.”
Since Trump was elected president, Hill Republicans have often taken the brunt of the anger from progressives unhappy at the direction the country is headed. They’ve seen their town halls and offices overrun with protesters, and while the discourse is often civil, several Republican lawmakers have complained to POLITICO about security concerns. Some have even said they won’t hold town halls anymore for fear of their own safety. Others have received death threats.
POLITICO reported on a special conference more than two months ago in which GOP leadership asked former cop-turned-Rep. David Reichert (R-Wash.) to brief members on how to ensure their staff are safe. His tips included asking police to monitor town halls, a practice that most have taken up. He also advised them to install heavy solid doors instead of glass at district offices and ensure each office has a security system in place as well as a backroom exit in case of emergencies.
Wednesday’s shooting is likely to only exacerbate those fears. During a members-only security briefing with House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving Wednesday just hours after the shooting, lawmakers pressed leadership with questions about what funds they could use to increase protection for themselves and their staff. Arizona Democrat Ruben Gallego said that while no changes to security on the Hill were announced, a bunch of lawmakers asked if they could use campaign dollars to hire security back home.
Two members, Reps. Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) and Al Green (D-Texas), stood up to talk about death threats they had received recently.
Several Democrats leaving the briefing said they have received an influx of threats against them and their staffs in recent months as well and would be supportive of additional security measures.
“The concern is not about our personal safety as much as it is about our staff and our families,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. “The lack of uniformity, especially in the districts…to even have metal detectors or a security team in place, those nuances make it more difficult to ensure the safety of our staff.”
Green said congressional leaders should consider increasing members’ annual expenditure allowance to provide extra money for security.
“An attack on one of us should be an attack on all of us,” Green said he told members during the briefing. The Texas Democrat has recently received lynching threats after calling for Trump to be impeached.
“There should be an allocation for us to have someone in our offices, in these district offices,” Green told reporters. “If it can already be used [but] budgets are tight, then we need to increase the budget so that the district offices can be protected. The staff is much more vulnerable than I am.”
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) said the next step is a review of “exactly what funds can and should be used in the event that there are security concerns by any member.”
The review will be led by Speaker Paul Ryan’s office “in communication with both the FEC and the Ethics Committee,” Hoyer added as he was leaving the briefing.
Republicans’ fear is grounded in a belief that politics had something to do with the incident. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz), who was at the practice that erupted in chaos, said on TV that “you’ve got to assume [the gunman] knew what he was doing here” — though he added, “whether he was targeting certain members, we don’t know.” Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who was also at the practice field, argued that “people know this is the Republican baseball team practicing” because of the security detail and the timing.
“It is pretty well known in the neighborhood who those folks are on the baseball field and where we practice, and there is probably also publicity about it on Capitol Hill,” he said. “It’s no question that he knew who we were and what he was intending to do, in my judgment, and I’m a former prosecutor in Tuscaloosa and Huntsville and yeah, he was going after elected officials, congressmen.”
Coming out of the security briefing with House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving on Wednesday, several Republicans speculated that the motivation may have been more anti-Trump than anti-Republican.
"It seems like this is was more an anti-Trump sentiment, but that's speculation," Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) said. "There was some discussion about that but clearly speculation."
Louis Nelson and Jake Lahut contributed to this report.
The Northern Virginia shooting wounding a Republican House leader at a congressional baseball practice “is an attack on all of us,” Speaker Paul Ryan told the chamber on Wednesday afternoon.
In an impassioned floor speech hours after a gunman shot House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and others, Ryan acknowledged the “very strong emotions” lawmakers are feeling.
Story Continued Below
“We are all horrified by this dreadful attack on our friends and on our colleagues and those who serve and protect this Capitol,” Ryan said. “We are all praying for those who were attacked and for their families.”
Police responded to reports of an active shooter on Wednesday morning in Alexandria, Virginia, where Republican lawmakers were practicing for Thursday’s annual congressional charity baseball game. Authorities have said at least five people were wounded, including Scalise, who is believed to be in stable condition. Other casualties include former House GOP aide Matt Mika, current House GOP aide Zack Barth and special agents David Bailey and Crystal Griner.
“We are giving all our thoughts to those currently being treated for their injuries at this moment, and we are united,” Ryan said. “We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
In a rare show of unity from an often divided Congress, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi seconded Ryan’s sentiments, something even the California Democrat conceded was unusual.
“To my colleagues, you’re gonna hear me say something you’ve never heard me say before: I identify myself with the remarks of the Speaker,” Pelosi said, drawing laughter from lawmakers. “They were beautiful remarks, Mr. Speaker. Thank you so much for the sentiments that they represent.”
Pelosi stressed Wednesday that “we are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other in saying we send our thoughts and prayers to our colleague Steve Scalise.”
She said she told Ryan she would be asking “every five minutes” for updates on Scalise’s condition and implored lawmakers to consider Capitol Police’s daily sacrifice and “how fortunate we all were that they were on the scene because other lives would have probably been lost.”
Ryan, who spoke with both special agents, extolled them for their heroism. “It is clear to me, based on various eyewitness accounts, that without these two heroes, Agent Bailey and Agent Griner, many lives would have been lost,” he said.
Lawmakers were briefed on the incident by the sergeant at arms, and Thursday’s game will continue as planned, although Ryan joked, “Knowing Steve Scalise as we all do, he is likely really frustrated that he’s not gonna be able to play.”
“There are so many memories from this day that we will want to forget, and there are so many images that we will not want to see again,” Ryan said. “But there is one image in particular that this House should keep, and that is a photo I saw this morning of our Democratic colleagues gathered in prayer this morning after hearing the news.”
The speaker was alluding to a photo that emerged from the Democrats’ practice showing them gathered in prayer for Scalise. Ryan said members of both parties come to work daily to “test and challenge each other,” sometimes letting their emotions get the best of them, but don’t “shed our humanity when we enter this chamber.”
“For all the noise and all the fury, we are one family,” he said. “These were our brothers and sisters in the line of fire. These were our brothers and sisters who ran into danger and saved countless lives.”
For her part, Pelosi echoed the familial nature of the House. The Democratic leader said she continues to pray often for her colleagues, including Republicans in Congress and even President Donald Trump.
“It’s in the family. It’s an injury in the family for the staff and for our colleague and for his leadership,” Pelosi said. “For this person to take this action was so cowardly — so cowardly.”
Wednesday’s attack, she said, was “particularly sad” because it came “at a time when people want us to come together and we were prepared to come together tomorrow night.”
“But we cannot let that be a victory for the assailant or anyone who would think that way,” Pelosi warned. “So tomorrow, we’ll go out on the field, we’ll root for our team … and we will use this occasion as one that brings us together and not separates us further.”
Wednesday's shooting of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) at a congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Va., joins a series of other incidents in which more than a dozen federal lawmakers have been killed or wounded by gunfire.
The most recent previous attack occurred in January 2011, when then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat, was shot in the head during an outdoor town hall meeting in a supermarket parking lot in her state. Giffords, who went on to co-found a gun violence prevention group while struggling with partial paralysis and other after-effects, expressed her condolences on Twitter for Wednesday's shooting.
Story Continued Below
“My heart is with my former colleagues, their families [and] staff, and the US Capitol Police — public servants and heroes today and every day,” she wrote.
Giffords' shooter, Jared Loughner, is serving seven life terms plus 140 years in prison without the possibility of parole.
In one of the most politically traumatic shootings in modern American history, then-New York Sen. Robert Kennedy was assassinated in June 1968 while campaigning for the Democratic nomination for president in Los Angeles. His assassin, Sirhan Sirhan, is serving a life sentence in state prison in California.
Louisiana Sen. Huey Long was shot and killed after a physician named Carl Weiss opened fire on him in the Louisiana State Capitol in 1935. The exact circumstances of the Democratic politician's death remain a mystery, with one theory suggesting that his bodyguards accidentally shot him as they aimed at Weiss.
The only House lawmaker to be assassinated in office is Democratic California Rep. Leo Ryan, who in 1978 was one of five people killed by members of Jim Jones’ Peoples Temple cult on an airstrip in Guyana. Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), who was then an aide to Ryan, was shot five times and waited almost 24 hours before help arrived.
Nine other sitting members of Congress have been wounded or killed in shootings.
In January 1973, Sen. John Stennis (D-Miss.) was exiting his car outside his home in Washington when two young men approached him and demanded money, according to police. After taking his wallet, his watch and other valuables, they shot him twice. Stennis recovered and continued to serve in the Senate for another 16 years.
The shooting involving the most lawmakers occurred in the Capitol Building in March 1954, when Puerto Rican nationalists stormed into the House gallery and shot Reps. Alvin Bentley (R-Mich.), George Fallon (D-Md.), Kenneth Roberts (D-Ala.), Clifford Davis (D-Tenn.) and Ben Jensen (R-Iowa). According to the New York Times, the shooters “shouted for the freedom of their homeland” as they fired. All five congressmen survived.
The Capitol itself has been a high-profile target for decades, and it featured relatively lax security until the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In 1998, a man walked into the Capitol and shot and killed two Capitol Police officers. No lawmakers were injured, but the man made it to the office of then-House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Texas) before an officer shot him.
Democratic Texas Rep. John Pinckney and his brother were shot and killed in April 1905 when a riot broke out at an event in Hempstead, Texas. In July 1869, Republican Alabama Rep. Thomas Haughey got into an argument with a man who shot him; he died five days later. And in October 1868, a member of the Ku Klux Klan shot and killed Rep. James Hinds (R-Ark.).
Matt Mika, a lobbyist for Tyson Foods and one of five victims of the carnage at a congressional baseball practice in northern Virginia on Wednesday, suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the chest and was in critical condition at a Washington hospital following surgery.
Mika, a Michigan native and director of government relations for Tyson’s D.C. office, is being treated in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital, where his family expects him to remain "for at least several days," according to a statement.
Story Continued Below
His parents traveled from their home in Michigan to be with him at the hospital, where friends and colleagues were keeping vigil.
"We continue to be in disbelief that he would be part of this heinous attack," the family said in a statement early Wednesday evening that provided an update on his condition.
Mika is one of at least five people who were wounded when a lone gunman opened fire on the field during the Republican team's baseball practice in Alexandria, Va., on Wednesday morning. Also wounded were House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Zack Barth, a legislative correspondent in the office of Rep. Roger Williams (R-Texas), and Capitol Police officers Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
The GOP team was preparing for a charity game against the Democratic squad, scheduled for Thursday. “As a former baseball player, he was volunteering at this morning’s practice to help the congressional team get ready for the game,” said Rep. Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), for whom Mika once worked.
Mika, a former college baseball and football player, was not scheduled to play in the game, Tyson said in a statement. His family described baseball as "one of his great passions" and said that his dedication to the congressional team is characteristic of the type of person he is.
"While the attack today was a terrible surprise, Matt’s presence on the ball field, helping longtime colleagues and friends was not," the family's statement added. "He is a very thoughtful, fun-loving person who is competitive and loyal — all things which contributed to his continued commitment to the Congressional Baseball Game.”
Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Mich.), a friend of Mika's, said he knows that dedication well, remarking in a statement how Mika "would always be at practices at 6 a.m., full of energy."
"I join with his countless friends across the country in praying for Matt and his family during this difficult time, and I hope he makes a full recovery,” Moolenaar added.
In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, GOP Reps. Kevin Brady of Texas, Erik Paulsen of Minnesota and John Shimkus of Illinois, who room with Scalise in Washington, showed up together at the George Washington University Hospital to check on Mika.
“He’s been a big part of the team for a number of years and just a great athlete, helps us, frankly, at second base and at shortstop. He’s a great guy,” Brady told reporters before leaving to visit Scalise at another area hospital.
Mika is well known and well regarded in food and agricultural policy circles. In his current role, he works on a variety of livestock concerns, ranging from issues affecting the organic sector to regulations related to fair competition in the meat industry. “Matt has worked for Tyson Foods for more than six years and we’re deeply concerned about him and his family,” Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, said in a statement.
Mika is a 2001 graduate of Adrian College in Adrian, Mich. He received a master’s degree in public administration and public policy from Western Michigan University in 2004. He started on Capitol Hill in 2005 as a legislative assistant for former Rep. Dave Camp (R-Mich.), and joined Walberg’s staff in 2007. He served as the congressman’s lead staffer on the House Agriculture Committee, according to Mika’s LinkedIn profile.
After Walberg narrowly lost a reelection bid in 2008, Mika left the Hill to lobby for the North American Meat Institute. He joined Tyson Foods in 2011.
Former Michigan state Rep. David Palsrok told a local media outlet that he met Mika in 2004 when he gave him a job running his campaign that year. They have been friends ever since.
“He’s somebody who’s touched a lot of lives in Lansing and in his travels to D.C.,” Palsrok told mlive.com. “There are a lot of people who care for him."
“We're praying for him and we love him," he added. “We're just hoping that he recovers and that he's OK.”
Catherine Boudreau, Austin Wright, Brianna Ehley and John Lauinger contributed to this story.
ALEXANDRIA, Va. — It started as an idyllic morning for baseball, two dozen Republican congressmen and aides attending practice and escaping, for a moment, the rancor of Washington. Then the bullets started to fly.
“I was on deck about to hit and I hear, bam!” said Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.). “And I look around and behind third base in the third base dugout, I see a rifle. And I see a little bit of a body and then I hear another ‘bam’ and I realize there is an active shooter. At the same time I hear Steve Scalise over near second base scream. He was shot.”
Story Continued Below
Scalise, the third-highest-ranking member of the House GOP leadership, crumpled to the ground near second base, where he had been fielding ground balls at Eugene Simpson Stadium Park. Horrified lawmakers described watching as a helpless Scalise screamed in pain and began crawling toward the outfield, leaving a trail of blood.
“I wanted to get to him but there were still shots going overhead from both sides,” said Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.). “Finally, when the shooter was down, I just ran low out to Steve.”
After a 10-minute firefight, police took down the lone shooter — but not before there was carnage. The shooter later was identified as James Hodgkinson, 66, a home inspector from Belleville, Illinois, with a string of violent outbursts who had grown increasingly angry at the political order in recent years.In addition to Scalise, others wounded included a congressional staffer, a lobbyist for Tysons Foods and two Capitol Police officers.
As local and Capitol police, firefighters, FBI agents and ATF officials scoured the scene – helicopters flying overhead – questions began flying about the incident. Was the shooter targeting lawmakers? Republicans? Was he alone? Lawmakers and staff who attended the practice eventually migrated to a nearby basketball court, surrounded by security, as law enforcement secured the scene, and confusion still reigned.
All of Washington quickly ground to a halt — votes in Congress were canceled for the day, hearings on major legislation were nixed, and a Democratic news conference hitting President Donald Trump was called off. Trump quickly tweeted, sending well wishes to Scalise, who was airlifted to a hospital for treatment. For a moment, at least, the intense partisanship gripping Washington eased. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle prayed for the wounded. Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.) told reporters he intended to visit Scalise in the hospital.
Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle prayed for the wounded. Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.) told reporters he intended to visit Scalise in the hospital. And former President Barack Obama reached out to Flake on Wednesday morning to extend his "best wishes and prayers" for the victims, the Arizona Republican said.
The episode began during batting practice. A burst of gunfire rang out shortly after 7 a.m., startling residents and pedestrians and sending local coffee shop employees fleeing for cover. Two residents said they assumed the noise was construction – until it didn’t stop.
It was in that first burst of fire when Scalise, the House majority whip, went down. He had been taking ground balls at second base, witnesses said. The shooter, according to witnesses, approached from the third base side and perched behind a nearby fence when he began firing.
Scalise’s colleagues watched, horrified, from the dugout, fearful for their own lives, as a hail of gunfire erupted and Capitol Police returned fire at the shooter, who was eventually taken down.
Flake described lawmakers’ effort to protect Rep. Joe Barton’s 10-year-old son by shielding him in a nearby dugout. Members described Rep. Brad Wenstrup, a doctor, rushing to Scalise’s side as soon as the shooter was taken down by police. He was preparing to cut Scalise’s pant leg off to begin treatment before a helicopter came and evacuated Scalise to a nearby hospital. Others on hand included Reps. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Roger Williams (R-Texas) and Joe Barton (R-Texas). Rep. Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) also received medical attention, Brooks said.
Flake said he grabbed Scalise’s phone and called the leader’s wife. A short while later, he fielded a call from Mark Kelly, the husband of his former Arizona colleague Gabby Giffords, who was shot in the head years ago by a crazed gunman while holding a public event in her district.
Brooks provided the most vivid account of the shooting itself. He said he was along the third base line when the first shots rang out, which he noted put him the closest to Scalise.
“You can imagine all the people in the field scatter. I run around to the first base side of home plate. We have a batting cage with plastic wrapped around it to stop foul balls. I was lying on the ground as gunfire continued. Heard a break in the gunfire and decided to take a chance,” he said.
Brooks said he ran into the first base dugout where multiple members of Congress and staffers had taken cover. One aide, he said, had been shot, so Brooks said he took off his belt and used it as a tourniquet “to try to slow down the bleeding.” Soon, Capitol Police began returning fire.
“There must have been 50 shots fired,” he said. “There were some congressman on the phone screaming for reinforcements. Seemed like a long time and we weren't even hearing sirens from local police officers which tells me they didn't yet know what was going on.
Lawmakers described a scene of confusion and sheer terror.
"I felt like I was back in Iraq,” Wenstrup, a former combat surgeon in the U.S. Army Reserve, told CBS News.
“I grew up in the South. I’m used to hearing an occasional shotgun and it didn’t sound like a rifle,” said Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) “And then there were a couple of seconds. Everybody looked up and heard the sounds. But we were about ready to come back and do our business. Then five or 10 shots in a row quickly rang out and that's when everybody was hitting the dirt.”
Flake, clearly shaken, spoke to reporters dressed in his congressional baseball team uniform, the word “Republicans” emblazoned on his shirt. Brooks, wearing denim shorts and his batting glove, recounted the panic in vivid detail.
Flake told reporters that he had recently finished batting and outfield practice and was watching other players hit when the initial series of shots were fired in what the Arizona senator described as a “rapid succession.” The shooter used a “large gauge” rifle, according to Flake.
Two of the victims were members of Scalise’s U.S. Capitol Police detail, Flake said, one of whom was shot in the leg but continued to return fire against the gunman. It was that officer with the leg wound that ultimately took down the gunman, Flake said.
Flake said he was the first person to reach Scalise and administer aid, quickly joined by Wenstrup and others. The Arizona senator said Scalise was conscious and coherent throughout the incident.
The gunman appeared to be acting alone, Flake said, though members and police feared a second shooter could be hiding. He said it was likely that the shooter intended to target members of Congress.
“You’ve got to assume he knew what he was doing here,” Flake said. “Whether he was targeting certain members, we don’t know.”
Flake, in an interview with reporters at the scene, estimated that the entire incident lasted around 10 minutes and that there were roughly 25 members of Congress present.
“Well, people know this is the Republican baseball team practicing. You can tell. You can recognize many of us. You can see our security detail,” Brooks said. “It is not a secret that we're practicing over here and the Democrats are practicing at a different place and I'm not going to divulge where that is under these circumstances. It’s no question that he knew who we were and what he was intending to do, in my judgment, and I’m a former prosecutor in Tuscaloosa and Huntsville and yeah, he was going after elected officials, congressmen.”
The normal rhythms of Congress were shattered Wednesday morning by a shooting that injured House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and at least four others, stunning lawmakers and staffers. But the denizens of the Capitol sought to quickly reassert a sense of normalcy in the Senate, projecting to the world that Congress won't be intimidated by the frightening attack.
Rather than imposing new security restrictions or pausing its work, the best thing for Congress to do is just “move on,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). One of the best-known members of Congress, he said he’s received no guidance to alter his movements in and around the Capitol after the shooting. And he said he and his colleagues should not spend time or energy worrying about their own safety.
Story Continued Below
"This is terrible. Just be grateful it wasn't worse. You’ve got to just move on. The best thing we can all do is just get back to work,” Graham told a handful of reporters. “I have long since stopped worrying about stuff like this. I have stopped worrying about things I can’t control."
Still, in an era of heightened political tensions, the thought of their own safety is frequently on the minds of lawmakers, whether during daily activities in Washington or meeting with voters back home.
On Wednesday morning, Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) said he recalled having that thought when the entire Senate was shuttled to the White House in April for a closed-door briefing on North Korea.
"I said, you know what? All it takes is some guy with a rocket launcher or a couple guys throwing a hand grenade and you can knock out most of the Senate," Menendez said. "That's the world in which we live in."
"There’s not many hours in a day when I don’t think about the potential of some goofball wanting to make a name for himself," added Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). "So you just got to be aware and you gotta hope you’re lucky."
Though some committee hearings were canceled and House votes postponed, the Capitol was mostly operating as usual, albeit with a slightly heightened security presence. Senate votes remained on schedule and Republicans were expected to continue discussing Obamacare repeal.
Party leaders offered brief comments on Wednesday morning, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said he was "deeply saddened" by the event and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) relaying a conversation with Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who was at the baseball field where Scalise was shot. Paul told Schumer: "Had these two Capitol Police officers, who were part of Congressman Scalise's detail, not been there it might have been a massacre."
"The shooting at the congressional baseball practice reminds us of the importance of numbering our days. May we refuse to boast about tomorrow, for we know not what a day may bring," said Senate Chaplain Barry Black in opening the chamber.
Later in the day, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) delivered their own remarks praising Capitol Police while projecting unity and prayer in the aftermath of the shooting.
“We are giving all our thoughts to those currently being treated for their injuries at this moment, and we are united,” Ryan said. “We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
After acknowledging the frightening aspects of the shooting, members of Congress dug into their daily work. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) said he met with constituents as usual on the Capitol grounds in the hours after the shooting.
“This is one of those freak deals. You can’t let it impact the way you do your daily activities,” Rounds said in an interview. “You’re not going to be able to perform your job and your responsibilities as well as you should if you’re looking over your shoulder all the time.”
Scalise has a security detail, which prevented the attack from worsening. Top congressional leaders and those in the presidential line of succession receive constant security due to their prominent positions.
Others take additional measures. "I feel pretty safe back in Texas, particularly," said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas). "My license to carry helps a little bit there, too."
“I have never felt like I needed it, except in rare situations,” Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said of his security detail that shadows him in Washington. “Today is a reminder of the vulnerability.”
But rank-and-file members of Congress do not generally have such security presences unless there is an active threat against them. They walk in and out of the Capitol in public areas where they can be approached by reporters, tourists and even lobbyists. And at town halls back home, where “you never know who’s going to show up,” in Graham’s words, lawmakers generally have local police protecting them.
"It is a brutal and terrifying reminder about the prevalence of violence in our society," Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said. Still, he added, "I've done public meetings, parades, forums for more than three decades, and people have more dangerous jobs."
And occasionally members face explicit threats, like threats against Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and his family in 2014.
“We’ve been very, very blessed to have so much good security around us and then we go home, we’re in public places, we have our local state police and all of them have been very good helping us and everything,” Manchin said. After this shooting, he added that “everybody will be on high alert. Because then what happens is, you have copycats.”
Yet visitors poured into the Capitol for tours and meetings with staffers and members, all part of an apparent effort by lawmakers to put on a brave face and continue Congress’s work.
“You’ve got to live. You just go about your business. It’s just, I see the world for what it is,” Graham said. “The threats against people in politics are real, but the threats against our soldiers? I’ve been in places where everyday you get up and everyday somebody is trying to kill you. So you put it all in perspective.”
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, the Louisiana Republican shot in the hip at a congressional baseball practice Wednesday morning, is always on the move as the third-highest ranking member of the House of Representatives.
The 51-year-old fifth-term congressman, a New Orleans native, is the top vote counter for House GOP leadership, a tough job in an increasingly divided Washington.
Story Continued Below
He’s known on the Hill for his jovial attitude and for being a huge Pelican State enthusiast: passing out trinkets from Louisiana, scribbling lists of top-notch restaurants to visit for Hill staff or reporters vacationing on his home turf, or taking members of Congress to visit a Gulf of Mexico oil rig to learn his state’s economy.
First elected in 2008, Scalise has risen through the ranks to become the chamber’s top whip counter. He developed a taste for politics at a young age, when he would ride a red, white and blue-decorated bike around his neighborhood and encourage anyone who would listen to head to the polls and vote, according to a “Politics in America” almanac profile.
Scalise registered as a Republican the day he turned 18 and joined College Republicans at Louisiana State University, where he also volunteered for George H.W. Bush’s 1988 campaign.
Local Republicans recruited Scalise in 1995 to run for the Louisiana House of Representatives, where he went on to serve for 12 years. After spending a few months in the state Senate, Scalise ran for Congress, where for a time he was considered one of the more conservative members of the House.
He quickly developed a reputation as a big supporter of the National Rifle Association. He even led a fight in the late 1990s against a New Orleans mayor who had sued several gun manufacturers in an attempt to recoup the city’s costs for curbing violent crime, according to a CQ profile. Scalise wrote a bill barring cities from taking businesses to court over what their customers did after purchasing products.
Scalise also used his perch on the Hill to advocate for Louisiana in 2010 after the BP oil rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico, the largest oil spill in U.S. history. He sponsored legislation giving fines related to the spill to coastal states to rebuild.
At the end of 2012, Scalise ran and was elected to lead the Republican Study Committee, defeating Tom Graves despite the Georgia Republican’s endorsement from former RSC chairmen. He steered the group, which includes more than 160 members from the more conservative half of the conference, into supporting legislative positions to rein in federal spending, sometimes at odds with leadership. He also used his post to rail against then-President Barack Obama for advocating what Scalise called a “radical” left-wing agenda.
In June 2014, then-House Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s (R-Va.) unexpected primary defeat by conservative challenger Dave Brat triggered a leadership scuffle that landed Scalise on his current trajectory.
When then-Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) ran for Cantor’s position, Scalise likewise jumped into the race to replace McCarthy, defeating senior Republican Peter Roskam of Illinois, who many considered the favorite, and conservative Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.).
Republican Southerners, who had no representation in leadership, were particularly excited to install one of their own near the top.
Scalise found himself engulfed in a controversy when a Louisiana blogger reported that Scalise had given a speech in 2002 to the European-American Unity and Rights Organization, a white supremacist group founded by former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.
Scalise apologized and said he regretted that decision, explaining that he was there to drum up support for a tax bill in the state legislature — not to support the group’s cause. Leadership backed him, curbing any political fallout. But ultimately it was his longtime friendship with Louisiana Democratic Rep. Cedric Richmond, a black lawmaker who had served with Scalise in the state House, that saved Scalise. Richmond vouched for him.
Scalise is married and has two children.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise is in critical condition in a Washington hospital, and will require additional surgeries after a bullet pierced his hip, injured organs and caused "severe bleeding," according to a statement Wednesday night.
Scalise, a Louisiana Republican, is in MedStar Washington Hospital Center in Northwest D.C., where he has had at least two procedures, and "multiple units of blood transfusion," the hospital said Wednesday night. Scalise was brought to the hospital in "shock," the statement said.
Story Continued Below
President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump visited the hospital Wednesday night, and brought flowers for the Scalise family.
A gunman shot Scalise, two police officers, a congressional aide and a lobbyist Wednesday morning during a congressional baseball practice. The shooting shocked Capitol Hill and froze congressional business. Votes were canceled in the House Wednesday, and the GOP leadership is allowing lawmakers to leave town Thursday afternoon — one day early.
The FBI identified the alleged gunman as 66-year-old James T. Hodgkinson of Illinois. He died after being shot at the scene.
Scalise's office said earlier on Wednesday morning that he was undergoing surgery after being shot in the hip and transported to MedStar Washington Hospital Center, and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) later told reporters the surgery had been completed. The hospital tweeted that Scalise remained in critical condition.
"Prior to entering surgery, the Whip was in good spirits and spoke to his wife by phone. He is grateful for the brave actions of U.S. Capitol Police, first responders, and colleagues," his office said. "We ask that you keep the Whip and others harmed in this incident in your thoughts and prayers."
The Trumps met with Scalise's doctors and sat by his bed side during their visit, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said. The first couple also met with Capitol Police Officer Crystal Griner and her wife.
In a televised address Wednesday morning, Trump called Scalise "a very good friend," "a patriot" and "a fighter," and said the prayers of his family, the nation and the world were with him.
“We may have our differences, but we do well in times like these to remember everyone who serves in our nation’s capital is here because, above all, they love our country. We can all agree we are blessed to be Americans,” Trump said in his statement, delivered from the White House's Diplomatic Room.
Tim Slater, the FBI special agent in charge of the Washington Field Office, told reporters at a press conference from the scene that it was too early in the investigation to label the incident an act of terrorism or determine whether it constituted an assassination attempt. Likewise, he could not say whether members of Congress had been specifically targeted.
He said Wednesday evening that the FBI believes Hodgkinson had been in Alexandria since March and was living out of his vehicle.
The bureau said in a statement that it is “actively investigating Hodgkinson to include his associates, whereabouts, social media impressions, and potential motivations.”
Alexandria Police Chief Michael Brown described the scene to reporters as “not only chaotic” but also “a combat situation.”
The shooting shook Washington off its usual routines. The House canceled its scheduled votes on Wednesday, although Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said votes in that chamber would go on as scheduled. Some committees canceled hearings as well. Visitors to the Capitol on Wednesday also observed increased security in the wake of the shooting.
House Speaker Paul Ryan summoned House members to the floor at noon, where he and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi delivered back-to-back remarks urging a break from the fierce partisanship that divides the town.
"We are all horrified by this dreadful attack on our friends and on our colleagues and those who serve and protect this Capitol," Ryan said. "We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us."
"To my colleagues, you're gonna hear me say something you've never heard me say before: I identify myself with the remarks of the Speaker," Pelosi said. "We are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other in saying we send our thoughts and prayers to our colleague Steve Scalise."
Former congresswoman Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.), who was the victim of a shooting in 2011, described the shooting as “an attack on all who serve and on all who participate in our democracy.”
“I am heartbroken for the pain of Congressman Scalise, the other victims, and their family, friends, and colleagues who survived. I am thankful for the great courage of Capitol Police, who were my protectors after I was shot and became my friends,” said Giffords, who was among 19 people wounded during the shooting at a Tucson, Ariz., meet-and-greet at which six people died. “I also know the courage it takes to recover from a shooting like this, and I know Steve and everyone there this morning have such courage in great supply.”
Hodgkinson, the shooter, featured a prominent photo of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) on his Facebook page, and Sanders said Wednesday in remarks on the Senate floor that Hodgkinson had volunteered for his 2016 presidential campaign. He offered his prayers for Scalise and the shooting's other victims, denouncing the attacker who had once supported his White House bid.
"I have just been informed that the alleged shooter at the Republican baseball practice is someone who apparently volunteered on my presidential campaign. I am sickened by this despicable act," Sanders said. "Let me be as clear as I can be. Violence of any kind is unacceptable in our society and I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms. Real change can only come about through nonviolent action, and anything else runs against our most deeply held American values."
Also among those injured was Zack Barth, a legislative correspondent in the office of Rep. Roger Williams (R-Texas), one of the GOP baseball team’s captains. Williams wrote on Twitter that Barth was "receiving medical attention but doing well and is expected to make a full recovery."
Matt Mika, a lobbyist for Tyson Foods and a former House GOP aide for Rep. Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), was receiving treatment at George Washington University Hospital in Washington after suffering multiple gunshot wounds. His family issued a statement saying had come out of surgery but remained in critical condition.
The hospital, which had previously said two shooting victims were there in critical condition, later amended that statement to announce that one of the patients had died. The hospital did not announce the identities of the patients and would not say if the deceased shooter was one of them.
Two members of the Capitol Police Department’s Dignitary Protection Division, officers charged with protecting Scalise because of his role in House leadership, were also injured. Capitol Police Chief Matthew Verderosa said in a statement Special Agent Crystal Griner was in "good condition" in the hospital after being shot in the ankle, and Special Agent David Bailey had been released after treatment for a "minor injury."
Verderosa said the Capitol Police officers on the scene exchanged fire with the gunman. Multiple lawmakers who were at the practice credited Scalise’s protective detail with fighting back against the shooter and stopping him from further harming the otherwise unarmed attendees at the practice.
The FBI also said a second lawmaker “sustained minor injuries and was also transported by a medic unit.” Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas) told reporters that Williams may have sprained his ankle trying to protect people but wasn’t shot. “He has had medical attention,” Barton confirmed.
The lawmakers were practicing for the annual congressional baseball game at a field in Alexandria when the shooting began just after 7 a.m. The game itself, a popular bipartisan event held each summer, is scheduled for Thursday evening at Nationals Park and will go on as planned.
Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) described on CNN how Scalise was wounded in the shooting, explaining in a phone interview that the GOP whip was among the first to be shot and was hit while standing in the area of second base.
“He’d crawled into the outfield but leaving a trail of blood. We started giving him some liquids,” said Brooks, who was not hit.
Sen. Rand Paul vividly recounted the scene in his own CNN interview, and gave credit to Scalise’s protective detail for saving lives. "Nobody would have survived without the Capitol Hill police," Paul said on CNN. "He was just killing everyone — he would've. It would have been a massacre."
“And having no self-defense, the … field was basically a killing field. If you were to run out while the killer was still shooting, he could have shot anybody," he continued.
GOP Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.), who left the practice before the shooting began, told reporters that he had spoken to a man, believed to be the shooter, as he was departing who asked if the people on the field were Republicans or Democrats. He said he had shared his account with the Alexandria Police Department and that he believed the man he spoke to was the shooter “based on the profile that I saw on TV.”
Brooks identified a handful of other lawmakers in attendance at Wednesday morning’s practice, including Paul, Barton, Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and Reps. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) and Williams. Brooks said Wenstrup, a medical doctor, immediately attended to victims, including Scalise.
“I felt like I was back in Iraq as a surgeon,” Wenstrup, a former combat surgeon in the U.S. Army Reserve, told CBS News.
Brooks told CNN that the gunman fired from behind the field’s third base dugout.
“And I look around and behind third base in the third base dugout, I see a rifle,” Brooks said. “And I see a little bit of a body and then I hear another bam and I realize there is an active shooter. At the same time I hear Steve Scalise over near second base scream. He was shot.”
The Alabama congressman said he never saw Scalise lose consciousness, though there was a 10- or 15-foot trail of blood behind him as he crawled into the outfield.
“The gun was a semiautomatic,” Brooks said. “It continues to fire at different people. You can imagine all the people in the field scatter. I run around to the first base side of home plate. We have a batting cage with plastic wrapped around it to stop foul balls. I was lying on the ground as gunfire continued.”
Worried that the plastic batting cage would do little to protect him and staffers from gunshots, Brooks said he took a gamble to get to cover.
“Heard a break in the gunfire and decided to take a chance. Ran from home plate to the first base dugout for better cover. There were a number of congressmen and congressional staffers who helped us lying on the ground,” he said.
There were approximately 25 members at the field, Flake said. One staffer was shot while on the field, and ran with a wound to the dugout, Flake said.
"He had a lot of ammo," Flake said, explaining why it took several minutes to get the situation under control. In an interview with reporters at the scene, he estimated that the entire incident lasted around 10 minutes.
"Just a harrowing scene," said Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), who said he ran into a dugout when the shooting started. "If this gunman had come into [the] dugout, we would have been sitting ducks."
The shooting took place in a neighborhood baseball field near a dog park that was full of early-morning dog walkers. As the shooting started, neighbors on the adjoining streets heard what they described as "dozens" of shots as people in exercise clothing began to flee past their homes.
Virginia House of Delegates member Mark Levine decried the politics that have killed gun control efforts in the state. Asked if it's the right time to talk politics, he cried out, "Then when is the right time?!"
Trump canceled a planned event at the Department of Labor scheduled for Wednesday, while Pence canceled a morning speech to the National Association of Home Builders. At the group's annual D.C. gathering, Rep. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) called for a moment of silence.
"I thought I was going to come up here and charm you on tax reform, but we're here on a very different day," Roskam told those assembled. "Will you just pray for these people and their families."
In the wake of the shooting, Democrats canceled a press conference announcing a lawsuit against Trump. The Senate also postponed a hearing examining a budget request for the Capitol Police.
Kyle Cheney, Jake Lahut, Heather Caygle, Clea Benson, Negassi Tesfamichael, Toby Eckert, Caitlin Emma, Anna Palmer, Burgess Everett, Nolan D. McCaskill and Diamond Naga Siu contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump is facing yet another lawsuit over the profits his far-flung business empire brings in from dealings with foreign governments.
The latest legal salvo came from nearly 200 Democratic members of the House and Senate, who joined in a suit filed early Wednesday in federal court in Washington.
Story Continued Below
It's at least the fourth pending lawsuit alleging that Trump is violating the foreign emoluments clause in the Constitution, a provision that prohibits federal officeholders from accepting financial benefits or other things of value from foreign governments without the permission of Congress.
Plans for the new suit were first reported by POLITICO last week. The lead plaintiffs in the case are Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut along with Rep, John Conyers of Michigan, long the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.
The 54-page complaint targets a wide array of Trump's business ventures, from Trump Tower spaces rented to foreign governments, to "The Apprentice" reruns aired by state-owned foreign broadcasters, to trademarks the Chinese government has granted Trump to market his brand in China for construction services, catering and clothing.
"Because Defendant is not coming to Congress and identifying the emoluments he wishes to accept, the American people will have no way of knowing whether his actions as President reflect only his beliefs about what is best for the country, or whether they are partly motivated by personal financial considerations," the suit says.
The new suit was filed just two days after the attorneys general of the District of Columbia and Maryland filed a joint suit in federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland, making similar arguments on behalf of the people of those jurisdictions. In addition, a pair of lawsuits were filed in New York last year challenging the legality of Trump's business dealings with foreign entities.
The Justice Department moved to toss out one of the New York cases last week, arguing that the plaintiffs lacked standing to bring such a suit and that routine business transactions with foreign governments are not covered by the foreign emoluments language in the Constitution.
At a news conference early this year, a private lawyer for Trump publicly made a similar argument. However, Trump also pledged to set up a process to donate to the U.S. Treasury profits his hotels and other businesses earn from foreign governments.
The Trump Organization, which oversees Trump's business holdings, has released a flyer indicating that it plans to flag some business with foreign governments and track the profits from that activity. However, the Trump businesses do not plan to try to figure out whether foreign individuals who do business at Trump properties are actually representatives of foreign governments, the flyer said.
The White House and the Justice Department declined official comment on the suit, but a White House official said it was without merit.
"The President’s business interests do not violate the Emoluments Clause, for reasons explained at length in DOJ’s filing on Friday night in the CREW case," said the official, who asked not to be named. "This lawsuit appears to be just another politically motivated iteration of that case. The White House will review the Complaint, but we expect that DOJ will move to dismiss this case in the ordinary course. This is another example of the Democrats playing political games instead of working for the American people they were elected to serve."
The lawmakers are represented in the new suit by a liberal legal nonprofit, the Constitutional Accountability Center.
SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO, Calif. — John Mathews, a self-described retired technology guru and life-long Republican from the coastal town of Del Mar, Calif., is a Darrell Issa voter.
But during a Saturday morning town hall here in an affluent Southern Californian neighborhood, Matthews lit into the nine-term Republican congressman for failing to do more to stop Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.
Story Continued Below
“I want to know when you and the Republican Party are going to stand up, use your political capital, and recognize that our democracy is under attack from an adversary,” he asked Issa.
The crowd cheered, and raised yellow signs reading “Agree.”
Issa — who just minutes earlier had boasted about being the first Republican to ask Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the FBI's Russia investigation — retorted that Russia wasn’t a Republican problem at all. He argued it was a bipartisan nuisance, and claimed he’s been tough on what he called the “evil empire" of Russia his entire career.
As the audience jeered at Issa to “Stand up! Stand up!” against President Donald Trump, and “revoke" the security clearance of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, Matthews said he would not vote for Issa again.
“I would prefer having a Republican representing this district,” he said. “However, if this is going to happen, he needs to step away from running for re-election and let another Republican run in his place, because quite honestly, he is unelectable.”
This Orange County area between Los Angeles and San Diego is supposed to an Issa stronghold. While he narrowly won re-election last fall, beating his Democratic challenger by fewer than 2,000 votes, much of Orange County backed him.
But anger from the left — and more than a little from his own party — has dogged Issa here in a Republican-leaning part of his increasingly Democratic district. Every seat in a nearly 500-person auditorium at the San Juan Hills High School was filled, and hundreds of constituents protested outside, irate that they couldn’t get in.
Protesters outside the building Saturday morning chanted and held colorful homemade signs that read “Repeal and replace Issa,” “healthcare for all,” and “Issa… try this for a change: country before party.” One attendee held a sign with a rubber chicken taped onto a picture of Issa’s face and plastered with the phrase “Missing in Action.”
“He’s telling us one thing and doing something different,” said Debbie Hanna of Encinitas, Calif., a registered Democrat who left her house early this morning so she’d be first in the wait-list line. “He told us Planned Parenthood would not be defunded then voted to defund it when he got to Washington. He proclaims that he has some kind of saving grace for health care for everybody … but then he voted for Trumpcare!”
This dynamic has left Issa, a nine-term incumbent, in an awkward spot. The former chairman of the House oversight committee made a name for himself in Washington as President Barack Obama’s chief inquisitor, grilling the Democratic administration on allegations of waste, abuse and corruption.
But now, seven months after Hillary Clinton won his district, Issa is showing a softer side. He’s boasted about working with Obama on legislation and hosting events with area Democrats. During the town hall, he sympathized with supporters calling for immigration reform, and he promised Congress wouldn’t make draconian cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency or the National Institutes of Health.
For his part, Issa rejects the notion that his politics are changing — once calling the suggestion “bullshit.” In a brief interview after the town hall, he scoffed at the idea he was in trouble politically in a competitive district.
“Not a bit,” Issa quipped when asked how concerned he was about re-election. “I got more votes in the last election than I did in any previous election. But there was an 83 percent turnout." He added: "That’s not duplicatable in an off year. It’s not even normally duplicatable in a presidential year.”
Saturday’s town hall was carefully choreographed: Issa’s office emailed area constituents a registration code allowing them early registration for the limited-space event. Within a couple minutes of registration going live to the entire district, tickets were gone — angering hundreds who felt Issa was trying to surround himself with supporters.
“I think he has tried to stack the inside with favorable constituents,” said Denise Stillenger of Cardiff, one of hundreds of wait-listed constituents who showed up Saturday morning in hopes of getting in.
Issa’s spokesman Calvin Moore denied that Issa was trying to select his audience and said his office simply wanted to ensure people near San Juan Capistrano were able to get seats. In previous town halls, he said, locals were blocked from attending when angry protesters flooded the event.
In an apparent attempt to alleviate some of that criticism and connect with constituents who have picketed outside his office in recent weeks, Issa on Thursday held an impromptu “pop up” town hall in Vista.
Despite the short notice — the email only went out five hours before the event — about 200 people showed up to press Issa on everything from Trump pulling out of the Paris climate agreement to concerns about Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner allegedly trying to establish a “back channel” of communication with Russian officials
While the town hall Saturday appeared to be an even split between supporters and antagonizers, there were still plenty of challenging questions for Issa, including some about the House Republicans' health care replacement.
Karen Abrams, a 53-year-old stage-three breast cancer survivor from Encinitas, Calif., criticized Issa for backing the plan and raised concerns about coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
"When I asked you this question before the vote … you eventually came around to saying, ‘Yes, people with pre-existing conditions should not have to pay [more],'" she said. "You use this world ‘should’ all the time. Yet you chose to vote opposite of your words. How can we trust you?”
Issa made no apology for his health care vote. Instead, he explained that in the current bill, people who maintain continuous coverage would not be charged more than a healthier person.
Red signs sprang up saying “Disagree.”
Issa did his best to identify himself as an independent-minded Republican. When Cindy Monahan, a retired businesswoman and registered Democrat, told him “we do not hear your voice” pushing back on the Russia scandal, Issa vowed to use his congressional perch to ensure special counsel Robert Mueller has “the freedoms and the funds” to investigate — and take the probe wherever it may lead him.
Likewise, when 30-year-old Oscar Gomez of Vista asked Issa about deportation raids “not just going after bad hombres” but innocent people, Issa boasted that he once “got booed by my own party” for wanting to tackle immigration reform.
“I appreciate the American dream as much as anyone does,” Issa said, later adding, “I’m tried of people being afraid when that’s not what America is about … I’m going to work with any Democrats, hand in hand.”
Highlighting the divide, many attendees had praise for Issa. While exiting the theater, Gene James, a registered Republican and Issa supporter from San Clemente, said he thinks Issa is “doing great.” He argued that many area Republicans still supported Issa but didn’t attend the town hall because they’re out golfing and enjoying the weekend.
But even James was concerned about Issa’s future. Indivisible, he said, is “the tea party of 2017,” and Orange County has changed — and not in Issa’s favor, he said.
“They’re organized, they’re angry,” he said of the Democratic protesters. “They’re a small percentage, but being a districts that’s in transition, that small percentage could definitely hurt him." He added, "Orange County isn’t what it once was.”
Hill Democrats are outraged by a new Trump administration policy to ignore information requests from members and senators unless they come from committee or subcommittee chairs.
They argue it’s part of a broader pattern by the White House, designed to make the executive branch less responsive to Congress. And they say it effectively locks them out of information necessary for government oversight.
Story Continued Below
From refusing to release White House visitor logs to scrubbing agency websites of health and safety data and refusing to respond to simple media requests on government operations — or even admitting whether President Donald Trump is playing golf or not — the Trump administration has made it harder for Democrats and the press to find out what is going on inside the White House and federal agencies.
This effort is sometimes being aided by Republicans on Capitol Hill, or undertaken at their behest. For instance, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) has asked federal agencies to refuse to comply with Freedom of Information Act requests designed to find out what data his panel is seeking from those agencies.
Such FOIA inquiries are routinely made by journalists, lobbyists and political operatives. News organizations have strenuously objected to Hensarling’s demand.
But the latest initiative by the Trump administration — backed by a May 1, 2017, opinion drafted by the Office of Legal Counsel of the Justice Department — has crossed a once unthinkable line, Democrats argue.
Under this new policy, Democrats — as the minority party — would be limited in their ability to get information from the agencies unless the request was supported by a Republican chairmen. Since the GOP controls both the House and Senate, this would effectively give Republicans a veto over such information requests.
“Every member of Congress represents hundreds of thousands of American citizens who expect their representatives in the House and Senate to fulfill their duty under the Constitution to act as a check on the executive branch in order to promote the proper functioning of federal agencies and departments,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), ranking member on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
“We cannot do our jobs if the Trump administration adopts this unprecedented new policy of refusing to provide any information to Congress unless a request is backed by the implicit threat of a subpoena. This has never been the standard for responding to congressional inquiries — and it should not take the threat of a subpoena to pry information free from this administration.”
Cummings added: “This is the latest in a series of abuses by the Trump administration to operate in a shroud of secrecy, hiding their actions from federal ethics officials, the Government Accountability Office, the media, Congress, and the American people.”
However, relying on the OLC opinion, White House officials say they do not have to respond to any requests from individual lawmakers, or those that do not come through a committee.
“’Oversight’ is a constitutional power which Congress exercises through its established committees and their chairmen,” said Lindsay Walters, a White House spokeswoman. “This legal advice provides much needed clarity to the executive branch so that the administration can ensure resources are effectively dedicated to accommodating authorized congressional oversight requests and responding to nonoversight requests, independent of the political party of the requester.”
According to the OLC opinion, no minority lawmaker — including the ranking member of a full committee — may request information without the approval of committee or subcommittee chair.
“Individual members of Congress, including ranking minority members, do not have the authority to conduct oversight in the absence of a specific delegation by a full house, committee, or subcommittee,” OLC asserted. “Accordingly, the Executive Branch’s longstanding policy has been to engage in the established process for accommodating congressional requests for information only when those requests come from a committee, subcommittee, or chairman authorized to conduct oversight.”
OLC added: “Members who are not committee or subcommittee chairmen sometimes seek information about executive branch programs or activities, whether for legislation, constituent service, or other legitimate purposes (such as Senators’ role in providing advice and consent for presidential appointments) in the absence of delegated oversight authority. In those nonoversight contexts, the Executive Branch has historically exercised its discretion in determining whether and how to respond, following a general policy of providing only documents and information that are already public or would be available to the public through the Freedom of Information Act … Whether it is appropriate to respond to requests … from individual members will depend on the circumstances. In general, agencies have provided information only when doing so would not be overly burdensome and would not interfere with their ability to respond in a timely manner to duly authorized oversight requests.”
The OLC memo was drafted by Curtis Gannon, the acting assistant attorney general.
The Justice Department’s copy of the famed “torture report” from the Senate Intelligence Committee, which extensively detailed the CIA’s Bush-era detention and interrogation tactics, doesn’t appear to be returning to the Senate anytime soon.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who chaired the Intelligence Committee when the panel produced the report in 2014, said Friday that she has confirmed the CIA, its inspector general and the director of national intelligence have returned their copies of the torture report to the Senate. Her successor as the Intelligence chair, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), had asked the administration to return its copies to the Senate, where it could be blocked indefinitely from public view because Congress exempted itself from open records laws.
Story Continued Below
“After more than two years of litigation, the federal courts have ruled that the Senate Intelligence Committee’s 2014 Full Report on the CIA’s Detention and Interrogation Program is a congressional document,” Burr said in a statement Friday. “I have directed my staff to retrieve copies of the congressional study that remain with the executive branch agencies and, as the committee does with all classified and compartmented information, will enact the necessary measures to protect the sensitive sources and methods contained within the report.”
But Attorney General Jeff Sessions pledged to Feinstein in written responses that he would not return DOJ’s copy to the Senate during his confirmation process earlier this year. Asked whether that is still the attorney general’s view, a DOJ spokeswoman said that the department's copy of the nearly 7,000-page report is tied up in the courts — raising the prospect that it could stay there for years.
“The DOJ report is the subject of two district court orders and, pursuant to those orders, has been lodged with the Court Information Security Officers for the District Court for the District of Columbia,” Sarah Isgur Flores, DOJ director of public affairs, said Friday.
Copies of the 2014 report were distributed to the CIA and its inspector general, the FBI, the director of national intelligence, as well as the Justice Department, the State Department and the Pentagon, with the eventual goal of making it public.
A military judge has also ordered the Defense Department to preserve a copy of the report in connection with a military commission prosecution pending against alleged conspirators in the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
But Burr, when he took over as Intelligence Committee chairman in 2015, asked the Obama administration to return all executive branch copies to the Senate. The issue has been tied up in the courts, with the American Civil Liberties Union suing to make the report public. But the Supreme Court declined to hear its case in April.
“No senator — chairman or not — has the authority to erase history,” Feinstein said. “I believe that is the intent of the chairman in this case.”
Still, multiple judges have ordered the report be preserved in court records and former President Barack Obama included another copy as a part of his White House paperwork with the National Archives, which could be released as early as 2029.
The ACLU noted Friday that Courtney Simmons Elwood, President Donald Trump's nominee to be CIA general counsel, promised during her confirmation hearing to read the full report, but the agency was one of the handful that had returned its copy. Her confirmation vote is scheduled for Tuesday.
“The report contains difficult facts to face, but they must be aired,” said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), who as an Intelligence Committee member helped prepare the report. “Purging history of unpleasant facts is not the American way; Putin and his Soviet forebears would approve, but we should not.”
Josh Gerstein contributed to this report.
Democratic leaders may take a hard line against raising the debt ceiling if Republicans seek a tax cut that increases the deficit.
The idea is for Democrats to receive a commitment from GOP leaders that their tax reform efforts will be revenue neutral. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told reporters on Friday that her party would be hard-pressed to support a “clean” debt ceiling lift with no policy attachments if it was merely to help clear the way for Republicans to slash tax rates.
Story Continued Below
“I don’t have any intention of lifting the debt ceiling to enable the Republicans to give another tax break to wealthy in this country,” Pelosi said. “When we say a clean debt limit, we mean not one that enables the Republicans to have a giant tax cut for the rich. That’s not why we’re lifting the debt limit.”
While the idea does not yet have sign-off from the Senate Democratic Caucus, it has been discussed by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and some of his members. Schumer suggested the strategy to Pelosi last week, a source familiar with the interaction said. Still, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and the White House have said it is their preference to do deficit neutral tax reform rather than budget-busting standalone tax cuts.
It’s not clear how Democrats would be able to enforce a tax reform commitment from Republicans as a condition of averting default. But because most bills need 60 votes to pass the Senate and House conservatives are loath to increase the debt, Democrats do have significant leverage in the months ahead.
“I tend to think that the debt ceiling ought to be extended as a matter of course without any controversy or unrelated issues. But I certainly have an open mind if there is any condition related to it,” said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), in an interview last week.
As Congress returns to Washington next week, the looming debt ceiling battle is front of mind for both parties. And they have been left with a confusing set of instructions from the Trump administration.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has publicly and privately left lawmakers with the impression that the debt ceiling needs to be raised before the August recess, which could complicate a congressional calendar devoted to repealing Obamacare and reforming the tax code. But while Mnuchin prefers a clean debt ceiling increase, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney wants to attach spending cuts to a debt ceiling increase. And Paul Teller, a legislative affairs liaison for Trump, told fiscal conservatives last month at Americans for Tax Reform’s headquarters to prepare their “asks” for conservative legislation to be attached to the debt ceiling increase, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the meeting.
Senate Democrats are unlikely to agree to a deal that raises the debt ceiling and includes new spending cuts or other conservative bills, so Republicans would likely have to slip the debt increase into a fast-track “reconciliation” bill if they want cuts, a difficult lift for a party divided on spending priorities. Moreover, Republicans may not appreciate Democrats’ attempts to derail their tax reform efforts as a condition of moving forward.
Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser to President Donald Trump, refused to weigh in on Congress and the administration’s own internal divisions on CNBC on Friday, saying it is up to Capitol Hill. Trump does have final say, though: He will have to sign whatever is sent to him by Congress.
“Every treasury secretary would love to have a clean debt ceiling, I understand that. I think in a perfect world you’d love to have a clean debt ceiling,” Cohn said. “But if we need to get things attached to get it through, we’ll attach things. At the end of the day, Congress is going to raise the debt ceiling, because they have no choice.”
Senate Republicans remain publicly pessimistic about their prospects of repealing and replacing Obamacare this year with several raising concerns this week about the party’s central campaign promise even as one of their leaders vowed to pass such a bill this summer.
Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) made the most direct prediction on Thursday, telling a news station in his home state that “I don’t see a comprehensive health care plan this year.” Earlier in the week, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) suggested to home-state reporters that lawmakers might shift to a shorter-term plan that would keep insurance markets working, on the heels of negative comments from Iowa GOP Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst.
Story Continued Below
The Senate is drafting its own legislation after the House narrowly passed its proposal to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act, former President Barack Obama’s signature 2010 health care reform law. But the House bill is widely regarded as too conservative to pass the Senate, making this week’s downbeat comments from Republicans both a realistic acknowledgment of their political challenges and a means to lower expectations ahead of their return to Washington.
“It’s unlikely that we will get a health care deal, which means that most of my time has been spent trying to figure out solutions to Iowa losing all of its insurers,” Burr told North Carolina’s WXII 12 News, describing the House-passed American Health Care Act as “not a good plan” and “dead on arrival” in the Senate.
Johnson took a more diplomatic approach, telling local reporters that a “two-part process” on Obamacare would likely start with a “market stabilization” proposal before any repeal attempt, according to the Madison State Journal. He also acknowledged that his is “probably a minority view in the Republican Senate right now.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), in fact, offered a significantly sunnier prediction of Obamacare’s demise this week, telling his state’s KFYO radio station that “we’ll get it done by the end of July at the latest.”
House Budget Chairman Diane Black (R-Tenn.) prodded Senate Republicans to vote on whatever Obamacare package they can rather than abandon the push.
“It’s sad, honestly, that the Senate would consider giving up so quickly on saving the American people from Obamacare,” Black said in a statement. “The House already did the heavy lifting to repeal and replace Obamacare. If they can’t pass our bill, then they should pass what they can and send it back to the House.”
Senate Republicans face a quickly shrinking window to finish work on Obamacare repeal before the fall, when they stand to lose the procedural power of the budget reconciliation process, which allows them to pass a health care bill that cannot be filibustered by Democrats. Even now, they can only afford to lose two of their 52 votes, with Vice President Mike Pence voting to break a 50-50 tie.
The House would then have to vote to pass the Senate’s version of the bill, or the two bills would have to be reconciled in conference talks, followed by another vote in each chamber for final passage. legislation.
Senate GOP leaders have vowed to move ahead with some form of health care legislation, although Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has acknowledged that the votes needed to pass such legislation aren’t there yet. Grassley on Tuesday acknowledged another difficulty the party faces, telling The Associated Press in his home state that any full-scale Obamacare repeal would require “60 votes, and we don’t have 60 votes at this point.”
Ernst offered her own reality check after an appearance alongside Grassley, describing reconciliation as a way to “tinker around the edges” of the health care law. She also declined to predict that any Senate-passed Obamacare plan would win favor in the House, according to the AP, saying only that “we will be working with the House.”
Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) pocketed an advance of $332,750 for his latest book, “Giant of the Senate,” released this week, according to personal financial disclosure records.
The advance, included in Franken’s financial disclosure forms filed May 15, was paid by Grand Central Publishing. Franken’s book was published by Twelve, an imprint of Grand Central.
Story Continued Below
The Huffington Post reported in 2015 that Franken’s book deal was worth at least $1 million. Aides to the Minnesota senator did not immediately comment Friday on whether the money listed in Franken’s financial disclosures, filed last month, is a portion of a fuller advance.
Franken’s disclosure includes few details on the financial terms of his book deal with Grand Central, which was inked in April 2016. According to the forms, Franken is getting an advance and royalties “based on customary and usual terms for a memoir.”
The second-term Minnesota senator has recently been on a whirlwind publicity tour for “Giant of the Senate,” a political memoir from the former “Saturday Night Live” comedian who has written a host of other satirical books. But he also was forced to cancel a book event later this summer with Kathy Griffin, who came under fire this week after being depicted holding a fake beheaded likeness of President Donald Trump. Griffin has since apologized.
In addition to his book advance and his congressional salary, Franken also earns income through pensions from the Screen Actors Guild, American Federation of TV and Radio Artists, and the Producers-Writers Guild of America Pension Plan, according to the disclosure forms. Senators are required to submit paperwork disclosing their personal finances — including noncongressional income, assets and liabilities — every year.
SANTA CLARITA, Calif. — Rep. Steve Knight tried desperately to distinguish himself as a moderate Republican and counterpoint to an unpopular President Donald Trump during a 90-minute town hall here in sunny Santa Clarita.
But when it came to his recent vote to repeal Obamacare, the vulnerable Californian couldn’t escape the public grilling. He was regularly mocked, jeered and interrupted by a crowd that seemed unsatisfied with his answers.
Story Continued Below
“I am angry and disappointed that you voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act, then replace it with garbage,” said one constituent in the front-row of a high school auditorium — the first of at least 10 health policy questions of the evening.
The crowd whooped.
And then green signs that read “agree” flew up in the air as the constituent hammered on: “I feel that your vote to repeal Obamacare was a vote for political capital with [Speaker Paul] Ryan (R-Wis.) — not to help provide a good health care system for the citizens of this district. You represent the people of the 25th district of California; you do not represent the first district of Wisconsin!”
The comment came during Knight’s first public town hall since backing House Republican’s Obamacare replacement. Knight spent the entire evening warding off attacks from left-leaning constituents furious about his vote, fighting to maintain his composure during a sometimes tense give-and-take.
While many Republicans around the nation are shaking off angry liberal activists at public events— knowing that often such crowds comprise a small portion of their GOP districts — Knight doesn’t have that luxury: Democrats comprise about half Knight’s swing-district just north of Los Angeles, which re-elected him by six points last fall. He sits in one of more than half-dozen GOP seats in deeply Democratic California that went for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election.
While one attendee praised Knight for that vote, most lit into him, like this:
“I am not some undeserving ne’er-do-well leaching off society in your district,” said one who railed about the so-called American Health Care Act (AHCA). “Neither is my husband and neither are the… constituents — Republicans, Democrats, conservatives, progressive, liberals, independents — whom your legislation, and your vote for it, slapped in the face!”
Knight, for his part, tried to empathize where he could. He blasted the president’s proposed cuts to education and Meals on Wheels. And he vowed to an upset woman, who said she had a schizophrenic son on Social Security disability insurance, that Congress would never, ever, cut that safety next — even if the White House is trying to.
But for the most part, all attendees wanted to talk about was the House’s health care bill.
After walking out on stage to a receptions of boos, Knight tried to talk up his legislative accomplishments. He said Congress in the first 100-some days of the year had passed more than 100 bills, though the crowd scoffed. And when the first questioner pressed him on “how you work with a pathological liar” — referring to Trump — Knight dodged.
“I think that everyone thinks that I sit around and watch the news … We keep our head down and we work,” Knight said, launching into a lecture about his duties as a sub-panel chairman on the House Small Business Committee and efforts to bring jobs to the district. “I do have a job to … represent the district, so that’s kind of what we do.”
Health care questions weren’t as easily avoided, however.
A woman whose son has a speech impediment asked Knight “why you would vote on a bill” that cuts Medicaid, which funds special education programs her son relies on.
Knight cut her off, eager to dispel the notion that his vote for AHCA would hurt her son.
“Your son will continue to be on Medicaid,” he said, apologizing for interrupting her. “That wouldn’t be changed under … AHCA.”
The House-passed bill would cut more than $800 billion from the federal health insurance program for low-income earners — something several constituents reminded Knight. But while Knight tried to move on to other questions, the Medicaid issue kept coming back at him.
“How could you justify, let alone support something that could ruin millions of lives?” said one high school student, referring to the bill’s Medicaid cuts. “Forty-two percent of Medicaid spending goes to people with disabilities… If you cut Medicaid, you will be reversing disability rights and stopping positive change. Congressman is that something you want to be known for?”
Knight gave a similarly vague response as he had to previous Medicaid inquiries, before calling for the next question: “Remember: Medicaid was that before. Medicaid was that in the ACA. And Medicaid is that in the AHCA. And it continues on.”
At times, the room, which was guarded by at least 15 police officers, grew testy.
When one man stood up to praise Knight for voting to repeal Obamacare, the crowd began jeering at the constituent, with one man standing up to yell, “Let the idiot speak!”
The audience similarly targeted a conservative woman who asked Knight to commit to voting to defund Planned Parenthood, which sent the crowd studded with hats, t-shirts and signs supporting the organization into a frenzy.
Knight seemed increasingly annoyed as the evening went on, imploring at one point: “Let’s have a little bit of decorum here?”
And after he was again interrupted mid-sentence halfway through the night, Knight paused his answer to lecture the crowd: “It is difficult: You lose your train of thought when somebody just yells at (you).”
Members of the crowd were unsympathetic: “Aww!” they mocked as if to say, “poor baby!” — some jutting out their bottom lips in a pretend pouty face.
Knight tried to sympathize with his more liberal constituents where he could. One area he found relief: bashing Trump’s budget.
After one student said he was concerned about the president’s cuts to education, Knight pulled out and started reading aloud Trump’s proposed reductions to teachers grants and after-school programs.
He panned them: “I don’t believe in those cuts. I don’t.”
When one mother, who said her son has schizophrenia, talked about his struggle to live a normal life, long-term hospitalizations and desperate need of Social Security disability insurance, Knight vowed that Trump’s proposed cuts to the program wouldn’t get through Congress.
“For the president’s budget: Understand there is going to be an appropriations process that goes through it, and that… Congress spends the money,” he said. “And I don’t see how we cut any of those programs going forward.”
In the end, however, that just might not save him from his AHCA vote.
“It’s very hard to be a Republican in California right now,” said David Goss, a 36-year-old Republican constituent who was wearing a “Stands with Steve Knight” shirt.
Health care is “all anybody cares about. They don’t look at all the other good stuff that Steve Knight has done. All they want to focus on is this one thing.”
SAN FRANCISCO — Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren delivered a fiery call to political action to hundreds of women activists in San Francisco, urging progressives to invest their energy in resisting the Trump administration.
The Democrat also sidestepped talk of a potential bid for president in 2020, saying when asked if she would make the race: “No," she said, adding, "I’m running for Senate in 2018.”
Story Continued Below
Warren’s response came to a question from MSNBC host Joy Ann Reid who pressed Warren about her plans for 2020 at a day-long “Joyous Persistence” conference for women activists — a conference named, in part for Warren.
Warren was greeted with cheers and a standing ovation at San Francisco’s Palace of Fine Arts where she told activists to focus not just on the future but more immediate issues. “We cannot be spending our energy” looking so far into the future as 2020, she said.
When Warren’s answer about the White House run drew moans from the activist crowd, the Massachusetts Senator launched into an impassioned call for action from the sold-out crowd who paid upwards of $125 to be part of an event that combined art, poetry and politicians and included California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.
“I don’t want anybody to doubt….I get how important today is,’’ said Warren. “I get how important tomorrow is.”
“I get how much damage Donald Trump, and Republican Senate and a Republican House have done to this country every single day,’’ she said. “Democracy has to make its voice heard. People in this room have to make their voices heard – right now. We have to be in the fight every single day.”
Warren’s comments came at the close of a seminar organized by Susie Tompkins Buell, one of the country’s most generous Democratic donors and a longtime friend of Hillary Rodham Clinton.
The “Joyous Persistence” conference in one of the nation’s liberal bastions underscored Warren’s continued appeal to women activists who have been energized to action in the era of Trump — organizing not only to march, but to get out votes and run for office.
The name of the gathering was inspired in part by GOP Senate Majority Mitch McConnell’s rebuke of Warren earlier this year. McConnell moved to silence Warren in the Senate after “she persisted” in a speech in opposition to the nomination of then-Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General.
McConnell declared Warren had broke Senate decorum saying: “She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted” — became an instant meme on the left.” “Neverthless, she persisted,” soon became a liberal rallying cry.
Thursday’s seminar drew an enthusiastic crowd of women, many dressed in the color pink to signal resistance to Trump, and who snapped up tee-shirts, some with the likeness of Hillary Clinton.
Clinton addressed the gathering by video, and said their presence underscored a “determination to advance the vision that nearly 66 million Americans for last November.”
Warren also addressed Trump’s decision Thursday to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate accord, announced from the White House Rose garden, as a critical energizer for action heading toward the 2018 elections.
“It’s one more reason we must all be in the fight,’’ Warren told them. “This is one more reason we’ve got to be effective, we have got to be focused and we’ve got to make change in Washington…the Republicans have been framing this for a long time, jobs versus the environment,’’ she said. “It is not. This is really about big donors to the Republican party.”
Warren said the decision was “symptomatic of what’s wrong in Washington,’’ adding that “America used to be a country that filtered things through the lens of, “does it help working families..?”
“Today, we have a government … that works just great for a thin slice at the top,’’ she said. “Which works just great if you can hire an army of lawyers.”
Many of those in the audience expressed admiration for Warren’s role as high profile fighter against Trump — and as a woman who has stood up against Senate Leaders like McConnell.
“She’s very powerful and she can lead, and she can fight,’’ said one attendee, Merle Goldstone, as she watched the Senator. “She knows what her role is, and that she has a job to do.”
But others suggested that as powerful as her voice has been, Warren – at age 67 – may not represent the party’s future heading toward 2020.
“She’s an older white woman, like Hillary Clinton,’’ said Judy Strebel of San Francisco. Her role is more “to fight in the Senate” than to be the party’s next nominee, she said.
Many in the crowd said they welcomed efforts by Democratic activists like Buell and Warren to channel the energy shown in Women’s Marches around the country in the wake of the November election.
“It’s still hard to believe that it’s only been a few months when the world as we knew it lurched unpredictability,’’ said Eleni Tsakopolous Kounalakis, a Democratic candidate who hopes to become California’s first female Lt. Governor. “For me, I felt our beautiful country had elected the worst possible person ever to hold the most important office in the world.”
Organizer Buell said the crowd had Donald Trump to thank for one thing — his ability to bring women and leaders like Warren together as activists.
“There’s a purpose for everyone now, and it’s a joyous purpose,’’ Buell told them, adding that with new leaders and new energy, the country will turn a corner with “hope..and new life.”
Sen. Al Franken has reversed himself and decided "it would be best" for Kathy Griffin not to attend an event that the Minnesota senator had scheduled with the comedian for July.
The Democratic senator had said on Wednesday that he would still hold an event with Griffin on July 7 in California, even after publicly distancing himself from an image showing Griffin with a faux beheaded President Donald Trump.
Story Continued Below
But Franken said on Thursday evening that he'd changed his mind regarding the event promoting his new book, "Giant of the Senate."
"I believe what Kathy Griffin did was inappropriate and not something that should be anywhere in our national discourse. I consider her a friend and I'm glad she realized she crossed the line and apologized," Franken said.
He added, "After hearing from many Minnesotans who were rightfully offended, I've come to the conclusion that it would be best for her not to participate in the event we had previously scheduled. I understand why Minnesotans were upset by this, and I take that very seriously."
Griffin apologized for participating in the image and asked for its removal earlier this week. She's been a contributor to the campaigns of Franken and other Democratic politicians, although Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) announced plans this week to donate the $1,000 received from Griffin to charity.
The embattled House investigation into Russia’s election meddling is once again beset by sniping and strategy disagreements, with Democrats now blocking key witness interviews, according to two sources familiar with the probe.
The House Intelligence Committee, which is exploring allegations of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign, was set to interview 10 witnesses this month. But the committee has put the interviews on hold after the panel’s top Democrat objected, the two sources said. A third source said the panel wasn't yet ready to conduct the interviews, since some of the witnesses have not fully complied with the committee's requests for documents.
Story Continued Below
The interviews would have included former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page and longtime Trump confidant Roger Stone, who both say they’re eager to appear before the panel, along with former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort.
The stalled interviews come amid another public spat between House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking Democrat Adam Schiff of California.
Schiff on Thursday went on national television to blast Nunes for continuing to hold power over the investigation’s subpoenas, despite pledging nearly two months ago to step aside from probe.
Nunes responded on Twitter, writing: “Seeing a lot of fake news from media elites and others who have no interest in violations of Americans' civil liberties via unmaskings.”
The House Intelligence Committee’s internal battles are in contrast to a parallel Russia investigation being conducted by the Senate Intelligence Committee. Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and top Democrat Mark Warner of Virginia have forged a strong bipartisan relationship, and the Senate panel is preparing for a highly anticipated public hearing next week with former FBI Director James Comey.
The behind-the-scenes battle in the House over the stalled interviews follows a Tweet from President Donald Trump earlier this week in which he accused Democrats of blocking a key witness interview.
Trump wrote on Wednesday that "Democrats, who have excoriated Carter Page about Russia, don't want him to testify," adding that Page "wants to clear his name."
The two sources familiar with the probe, who like others interviewed for this article spoke on the condition of anonymity about the sensitive Russia probe, blamed Democrats for the witness interviews being put on hold, expressing concern that the investigation has ground to a halt as a result of Schiff's objections.
“The majority and the witnesses are ready to go,” said one of the sources familiar with the House panel’s investigation. “But the minority continues to object claiming they aren’t ready.”
There is disagreement, though, over the reason for the stalled witness interviews.
A third source familiar with the probe — who agreed to be identified only as a senior committee aide — said Schiff and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s now leading the investigation after Nunes' decision to step aside, had agreed not to conduct witness interviews until after the witnesses responded to the committee’s requests for documents.
“Many such requests have yet to be complied with, and neither member believes that interviews should be scheduled until they are answered in full,” the senior committee aide explained. “Anyone suggesting that interviews should take place before the committee has a chance to review the relevant documents plainly does not have the best interests of the investigation in mind.”
Conaway’s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Even with the fight over the stalled witness interviews, there are some signs of progress for the embattled House investigation, which nearly fell apart two months ago under Nunes’ controversial leadership. Nunes has never referred to his decision to step aside from the investigation as a full recusal.
The committee on Wednesday issued seven subpoenas, including to former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and Trump’s longtime personal attorney, Michael Cohen.
Nunes unilaterally decided to issue three separate subpoenas related to the issue of unmaking without the agreement of Democrats. Unmasking is a process used by intelligence officials to learn the identities of people inside the United States who are referenced in intelligence reports.
Nunes has suggested the Obama administration might have abused the “unmasking” process to obtain the identities of Trump campaign aides who were caught up in routine surveillance of foreign targets. The Trump administration has cited the issue as evidence for the president’s much-maligned claim that President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower.
Schiff said Thursday that he was only informed of Nunes' subpoenas the night before they went out. He added that they were "part of the White House's desire to shift attention away from the Russia probe and onto the issue of unmasking."
Schiff called Nunes' decision to issue the subpoenas "a violation" of his pledge to step aside from the probe and said he believes Nunes’ power to issue subpoenas related to the Russia probe should be relinquished to Conaway.
If House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) “wants to allow this kind of thing to go on,” Schiff said on MSNBC Thursday, “that is really up to him, and I think he will ultimately be held accountable for how this is conducted.”
The issue of the committee’s stalled interviews comes as several of the most high-profile witnesses are expressing an eagerness to appear before the panel.
Page signaled in a letter to the committee earlier this week he was more than ready to testify. He wrote that he had "learned from your committee staff" that "I might not be immediately afforded the opportunity" to address what he called "misleading testimony" by Comey, former CIA Director John Brennan and others.
Page indicated the committee had canceled a "previously scheduled" interview set for next week. “In the interest of finally providing the American people with some accurate information at long last, I hope that we can proceed with this straight dialogue soon," he added.
Stone, meanwhile, said the House Intelligence panel has offered him a chance to testify privately with two members of each party present.
But the political provocateur, whose relationship to Wikileaks publisher Julian Assange has become a focus of congressional inquiries, said in an email to POLITICO that he's demanding a public session before the full committee and has been unable to work out the logistics.
"Bottom line — they can't handle the truth," Stone wrote.
Aides to Conaway and Schiff declined to respond to Stone's suggestion.
After two straight recesses with high-profile harangues from voters, fewer members of Congress are holding town halls recently — and it’s not just Republicans who are cutting their time in the spotlight back home.
Thirty-six House Republicans scheduled public meetings during the current weeklong recess and one earlier in May, according to a POLITICO analysis of data maintained by the independent website Legistorm. That’s less than half the 74 House Republicans who held town halls during a two-week break in April, and only a handful more than the 31 who booked such public or televised events during February’s one-week pause in legislating.
Story Continued Below
The drop in town halls as protests continue this year over repealing Obamacare and other aspects of President Donald Trump’s agenda is even sharper among Senate Republicans. Only two have town halls this week, their only time off since April. During their two-week April break, 11 GOP senators booked public meetings, and in a week off in February, five had them.
Democrats are cutting appearances as the year drags on, too. The number of House Democrats holding town halls during the most recent two weeks off — 65 — almost doubles the number of House GOP members holding them but is a 14 percent drop from the 76 House Democrats who held public meetings during April’s two weeks off. In just a week break in February, by comparison, 64 House Democrats held town halls.  Only six Democratic senators held town halls this week, down from 20 during April’s two-week break and 11 in a week off in February.
The bipartisan decline in the number of lawmakers holding town halls lately compared with earlier this year suggests that, although most attention has focused on denunciations of Republicans by Indivisible and other liberal groups, members of both parties may be growing weary of the format. Smartphones and social media have enabled partisans on both sides of the aisle to turn unfiltered encounters with lawmakers into viral, politically perilous content.
“Whenever a member announces a town hall now, a lot of groups get to work organizing supporters to attend,” GOP strategist Alex Conant said in an interview, noting that conservative as well as liberal groups have worked to pack the audiences for such meetings.
“Town halls are not the organic neighborhood get-togethers they once were,” said Conant, a former spokesman for Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). “Now they’re political theater and, frankly, less productive for everyone.”
POLITICO focused its analysis on the number of lawmakers holding events to gauge members’ interest in holding town halls as the year progresses. Some lawmakers still hold multiple public meetings each recess — Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) has scheduled 79 town halls so far this year, while Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) has booked 44.
House Republicans have held a total of 544 public events so far this year, according to Legistorm’s database, while House Democrats have had 571. Senate Republicans’ public events have totaled 63, compared with 155 for Senate Democrats.
The GOP has borne the most brutal constituent engagement at town halls so far this year, as voters trained fear and frustration on Republicans from Colorado to Arkansas. Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of two upper-chamber Republicans to book town halls this week, parried his constituents’ concerns about the repeal of Obamacare on Wednesday by distancing himself from the House’s bill, the American Health Care Act.
But Democrats have also battled a wave of protests as so-called resistance groups mobilize. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has grappled with angst from the left, and local media reported the arrest of three demonstrators Tuesday outside an immigration town hall hosted by Rep. Lou Correa (D-Calif.).
Activists say the public’s interest in more direct engagement with lawmakers is growing, particularly as the Republican push to repeal Obamacare teeters in the Senate.
“Constituents across the country have a lot of tough questions and a lot of concerns — frankly, they’re not sure what’s going on — and want to have these conversations,” said Town Hall Project Executive Director Jimmy Dahman, whose liberal-leaning group works with more than 100 volunteers to maintain a database tracking lawmakers’ public events.
Members who sidestep town halls might "avoid some tough questions," Dahman said, "but we know the appetite for that civic engagement and dialogue is as high as it’s ever been."
Some Republicans have boosted the security presence at their events, while others conducted town halls by telephone and Facebook as confrontational public meetings became more frequent. POLITICO limited its analysis to in-person events, but leading GOP pollster Glen Bolger said alternate methods of voter contact could gain favor now that live town halls "have become protests and shoutfests."
"I'm not sure there's a whole lot of return on them the way there used to be," said Bolger, co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies. “That doesn’t mean you go dark on your constituent communication. You have to find other outlets for it."
Progressive activists have followed the reduction in in-person town halls with new ways to pressure Republicans. More than two dozen House Democrats have linked up with Indivisible and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee for an "adopt-a-district" project that will send minority-party members to so-called empty chair meetings in the districts of House Republicans.
One such meeting in Pennsylvania on Thursday was planned by liberals who have held weekly demonstrations in a bid to get Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) to schedule a town hall in Philadelphia and take a stronger line against Trump. Toomey spokesman Steve Kelly said in a statement the senator appreciated the invitation but could not go because of "a longstanding obligation."
Toomey is hardly an outlier. POLITICO's analysis of Legistorm data found that less than half the Senate’s total membership — just 17 Republican and 31 Democrats — held public town halls so far this year.
"Over the past six years, Senator Toomey has conducted more than 60 town halls, of all varieties," Kelly said. "Senator Toomey has also hosted meetings this year with protesters in five cities across Pennsylvania and in Washington."
Devin Nunes has said he’s stepped aside from the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia investigation, but he is still involved in a major way.
As chairman of the intelligence panel, Nunes continues to hold the power to issue subpoenas. On Wednesday, the California Republican issued three subpoenas without the agreement of the committee’s Democrats, and despite having stepped back from the Russia investigation because the House Ethics Committee is investigating him for disclosing classified information.
Story Continued Below
These subpoenas related to the issue of “unmasking,” which is a process used by intelligence officials to learn the identities of people inside the United States who are referenced in intelligence reports.
Nunes has suggested the Obama administration might have abused the “unmasking” process to obtain the identities of Trump campaign aides who were caught up in routine surveillance of foreign targets — an issue the Trump administration has cited as evidence for the president’s much-maligned claim that President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the intelligence panel’s top Democrat, said Thursday that he was only informed of Nunes' subpoenas the night before they went out, adding that they were "part of the White House's desire to shift attention away from the Russia probe and onto the issue of unmasking."
Schiff called Nunes' decision to issue the subpoenas "a violation" of his recusal, adding that he believes Nunes’ power to issue subpoenas related to the Russia probe should be relinquished to Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who is leading the investigation in Nunes’ place.
If House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) “wants to allow this kind of thing to go on,” Schiff said on MSNBC Thursday, “that is really up to him, and I think he will ultimately be held accountable for how this is conducted.”
"Whether you call it recusal or step aside, and I don't really understand what the difference is, the public was given the assurance he wouldn't be making decisions in the Russia investigation," Schiff later added on CNN. Despite stepping aside, Nunes has not called it a “recusal.”
A committee aide, speaking on background, noted that “all subpoenas are issued unilaterally by the chairman” because “those are the committee rules.” Democrats were “informed and consulted about them beforehand by email, in-person, and in writing via hard copy.” The aide added that the three subpoenas on unmasking "were not related to the Russia probe."
In Nunes' April statement announcing he would step back, he suggested that he could reclaim his spot as head of the investigation if and when the Ethics Committee probe wraps up.
In the meantime, Conaway is leading the Russia investigation, which issued four other subpoenas on Wednesday, aimed at former and current Trump aides. Those subpoenas were issued with the consent of Democrats.
Conaway’s office did not respond to questions about whether the congressman was involved in Nunes’ decision to issue the three other subpoenas related to unmasking.
The House Ethics Committee probe is looking into whether Nunes disclosed classified information during a news briefing at the White House in which he said members of the Trump transition team might have been under inadvertent surveillance following November's election.
The White House briefing came during an explosive two weeks for Nunes, when he drew national attention — and sparked the ire of Democrats — over his handling of the Russia probe.
Nunes claimed in March that a whistle-blower had shown him what appeared to be surveillance abuses by the Obama administration, but it was quickly revealed that he got his information during a meeting with White House officials at a secure facility on the White House grounds.
He then went back to the White House the next day to brief Trump on what he had learned from Trump’s own aides.
“It has to do with FISA,” Nunes told reporters at the White House who asked him about his meeting with Trump, referring to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “There's multiple number of FISA warrants that are out there.”
His remarks set off alarms for surveillance experts, including the editors of the Lawfare blog. They wrote at the time that it was their understanding that information obtained under FISA “was classified until affirmatively declassified by the original classifying authority.”
A week later, the liberal advocacy group MoveOn filed an ethics complaint, citing the congressman's remarks at the White House and accusing him of disclosing classified information "for political purposes."
Two influential Senate Democrats disclosed Thursday that they had privately asked former FBI Director James Comey to investigate all contacts and communications that Attorney General Jeff Sessions or his aides may have had with officials from the Russian government — and raised the issue of whether Sessions had committed perjury in his Senate testimony.
The revelation by Sens. Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Al Franken of Minnesota comes a day after CNN reported that investigators are looking into whether Sessions had a third, previously undisclosed meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the presidential campaign last year.
Story Continued Below
Sessions was forced to step aside from federal Russia investigations earlier this year when The Washington Post reported that the former Alabama senator had met twice with the Russian ambassador, even though he testified during his confirmation hearing in January that he “did not have communications with the Russians.”
CNN reported Wednesday that congressional investigators were now examining whether Sessions and Kislyak met a third time. In their first request to Comey, sent March 20, Leahy and Franken argued that Sessions’ testimony before the Judiciary Committee could be “construed as perjury.”
“We served with the attorney general in the Senate and on the Judiciary Committee for many years,” Leahy and Franken said in a joint statement Thursday. “We know he would not tolerate dishonesty if he were in our shoes. If it is determined that the attorney general still has not been truthful with Congress and the American people about his contacts with Russian officials during the campaign, he needs to resign.”
Earlier this year, Franken said Sessions needed to resign from his post if he had lied under oath about his communications with Russian officials. Leahy, a former Judiciary Committee chairman, had not previously made similar calls.
Franken and Leahy both pressed Sessions, through written questions and during his confirmation hearing, whether Sessions had communications with Russian officials during the campaign. Sessions testified then that he had not, although the Justice Department said the attorney general met with Kislyak in his capacity as a senator after the initial meetings were disclosed.
The Democratic senators also asked acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe to brief them on the matter after Comey’s abrupt firing last month. Comey is scheduled to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee next Thursday, although neither Franken, nor Leahy, sits on that panel. Leaders on the Judiciary Committee have also requested that Comey testify before that panel.
Former FBI Director James Comey will testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, June 8, regarding Russian interference in the 2016 election, committee leaders announced on Thursday.
The hearing will be one of the most highly anticipated events on Capitol Hill in years, after President Donald Trump suddenly fired Comey in May and a flood of news reports followed suggesting that the president tried to get Comey to squash an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Story Continued Below
After an open session in the morning, the committee will then be further briefed by Comey behind closed doors, said Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.).
In addition to Russia's efforts to influence the presidential election, much of the questioning is likely to center around Comey's termination, which shocked senators in both parties.
Trump has said that the Russia investigation was on his mind when he fired Comey, though administration officials have also said that Trump fired Comey based on the guidance of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein, however, told senators in a closed briefing that it was clear Trump had already decided to fire the former director before asking for Rosenstein's guidance.
Comey's appearance will be the first since his firing. The former director agreed to appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee several weeks ago, but the committee first had to "deconflict" any of his testimony with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of the Trump campaign's ties with Russia.
The last time Trey Gowdy and Elijah Cummings oversaw a politically explosive investigation, the two congressmen ripped into each other on national TV, as a grimacing Hillary Clinton looked on.
With Washington in the grip of a new scandal over President Donald Trump and his team’s possible ties to Russia, Gowdy and Cummings appear set for a reunion that would test a deeply divided Congress’ ability to hold the White House to account.
Story Continued Below
Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican and former prosecutor, is the likeliest choice to succeed outgoing Rep. Jason Chaffetz as chairman of the House Oversight Committee, which has broad discretion to probe allegations of collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. The Baltimore-bred Cummings is the longtime top Democrat on the panel.
The Gowdy-Cummings relationship, forged over their two-year tenure as the leaders of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, is as complicated as it will be critical. It's often harder for the executive branch to ignore bipartisan requests, which was a difficult hurdle during the Benghazi probe.
The two men have squabbled publicly, but when the cameras are off, both profess respect for each other and an ability to work together, however haltingly.
“They do have a good relationship, and I don't think Mr. Gowdy has any doubt that they could work well together in a bipartisan fashion on the Oversight Committee,” said Gowdy spokeswoman Amanda Gonzalez.
Meanwhile, when Cummings was asked about the prospect of Gowdy getting the gavel, he responded: “Whoever they send, I’m gonna be me.”
So far, the Maryland congressman has managed to use his committee perch to unearth several revelations about former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn, sometimes working with Chaffetz and sometimes striking out on his own.
Gowdy has been less vocal on the issue of Russia’s election meddling but was recently given a leading role in the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia probe. Privately, aides to several Democratic committee members grumble that Gowdy could use his gavel to protect Trump or lead the committee down tangents that divert focus from holding the White House accountable.
“The main knock on Gowdy is he seems to be an advocate for one side or another rather than an independent seeker of facts,” said a Democratic aide who took part in the Benghazi probe, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The investigation into the 2012 attacks on U.S. facilities in Libya was “really a prosecution,” said the aide. Gowdy “was doing whatever he could to exclude what he called the other side, which was the Democrats.”
But Gowdy was also squeezed on the right, with some conservative lawmakers accusing him of not being harsh enough on Clinton.
Some Democrats also worry that Gowdy would come with a bias toward investigating leaks of classified information at the expense of a broader look at allegations of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
“If Trey Gowdy is the best hope,” said Jaime Harrison, former chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, “then there's no hope at all.”
Still, Democrats on the panel are reserving judgment and describe a pleasant rapport with Gowdy.
Rep. Jamie Raskin, a liberal freshman lawmaker from Maryland and member of the Oversight Committee, said in his few conversations with Gowdy, he discerned the South Carolinian’s “amiable and convivial spirit.”
“That Southern charm goes a long way with fellow politicians,” he said. “As long as Democrats get the sense that he's interested in true investigation and analysis rather than partisan collaboration with the administration, then we have a good pathway forward.”
Raskin noted that one prominent GOP Trump critic, Sen. Lindsey Graham, is also from South Carolina. Perhaps that showed Gowdy that his constituents value an independent streak, Raskin said.
Republicans regard Gowdy as a top-notch investigator and insist he will exercise independent judgment if he becomes head of the committee. And South Carolina Republicans say Gowdy may have conservative convictions, but he's not beholden to the politics of Trumpism. His district is primarily made up of mainstream, business-minded Republicans, and Gowdy endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio in the 2016 Republican primary — a move that drew sharp condemnation from Trump and his allies at the time.
In fact, at the time of the endorsement, Trump himself retweeted several followers who slammed Gowdy, including one who said he “failed miserably” as chairman of the Benghazi panel and that the endorsement would “finish Gowdy.”
Gowdy was a member of the Trump transition executive committee, but he has taken pains to shield himself from the appearance of being too close to the president. The Trump-supporting Great America PAC plowed $5,000 into Gowdy's campaign account in March, according to Federal Election Commission records, but Gowdy returned the donation within days, according to Gonzalez, his spokeswoman.
Gowdy “has never met Mr. Trump,” Gonzalez added. “He has never been to the White House. He has no relationship with the president, nor has he ever spoken directly to the president.”
This independence has not been lost on the White House, which is tracking the congressional Russia investigations closely. One administration official told POLITICO he worries that Gowdy could turn into a headache for Trump since he is not driven by loyalty to the president and knows how to run a thorough investigation that could take months, if not years.
Gowdy also appears sensitive to the charge that he’s too focused on leaks.
During a House Intelligence Committee hearing last week, as he grilled former CIA Director John Brennan, Gowdy intentionally saved his questions about leaks of classified intelligence for the end, telling Brennan, with a sly smile, that he didn’t want to be accused of concentrating too much on the issue.
Former South Carolina GOP chairman Matt Moore said Gowdy was wary of appearing too partisan while he was overseeing the Benghazi probe. Moore said the party turned down “literally dozens of requests” for Gowdy to speak to out-of-state fundraisers because Gowdy didn’t want his oversight efforts to seem politicized.
"Trey Gowdy ... will put the country over politics," Moore added. "He's done that throughout his career in lower-level offices. He'll be less concerned about reelection than doing what's right for the country."
The steps Gowdy has taken haven't shielded him from complaints by Democrats who view him as overtly partisan. And Gowdy's Democratic critics — including those on the Benghazi panel — have a laundry list of complaints about him, many of them documented in the report released by Democrats at the conclusion of the Benghazi panel’s work.
The probe led by Gowdy was “a case study in how not to conduct a credible, legitimate investigation,” the Democratic report said. Democrats were excluded from some witness interviews, they wrote, calling the investigation a “one-sided process in which Republicans selectively informed Democrats of witness interviews only after-the-fact.”
Democrats also noted that information from the investigation was selectively leaked to the news media during the 2016 campaign, often leading to inaccurate stories that reflected poorly on Clinton and her associates, and that when Democrats raised the issue with Gowdy, he “refused to investigate or condemn” the leaks.
At least one other man may be wondering whether Gowdy and Cummings can forge a strong partnership: Trump.
“Mr. Gowdy's a former prosecutor, and he can certainly recognize the abuse of power when he sees it,” Raskin said. “And whether it's him or someone else who takes the gavel, we hope that the new chair will be guided by questions of public integrity and accountability rather than partisanship.”
Rachael Bade contributed to this report.
The federal budget process is so broken that lawmakers are now preparing to write spending bills without even knowing how much total cash they've got to play with.
It's a new level of dysfunction for Capitol Hill, and it undermines GOP leaders’ promises to return to "regular order," where spending measures are carefully considered and funding the federal government is a priority.
Story Continued Below
Without clear spending targets, federal agencies are left in the dark, with only a vague idea of how to plan their budgets. The uncertainty also could complicate plans by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to avoid a government shutdown showdown in the fall.
“It’s a puzzling year. It’s going to be a very difficult year,” said Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), who oversees spending for energy and water programs.
Under the law governing the fiscal calendar, the House and Senate are supposed to pass budgets by April 15 that establish a total federal spending level. That figure is then divvied up among 12 appropriations subcommittees, which draft bills to fund the federal government that must be passed by Sept. 30.
Congress hasn’t finished its spending work on time in two decades, but this year’s effort stands out for its struggles, and longtime budget watchers are surprised by how Republicans are moving forward.
Lawmakers are in session for just three more months before the September funding deadline, but Republican leaders are likely still weeks away from releasing a budget. So GOP appropriators say they’ve been left to guess how much money they’ll have for each bill.
“If we can get anything like a notional number, we can get started on next year’s [appropriations],” Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), chairman of the subcommittee that funds the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education departments, told POLITICO recently.
The slapdash start to this year’s appropriations process is leading to informal budget-writing, where lawmakers are working mostly behind closed doors. The first set of public budget hearings is now kicking off across Capitol Hill, but GOP leaders still haven’t given committee leaders a clear picture of their spending levels.
Simpson, echoing other anxious Republican appropriators, said GOP leaders “needed to make that decision in March.”
“There’s a lot of major decisions that have to be made,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Budget and Appropriations committees. “I’m very worried with the truncated process we’ve got for appropriations.”
Neither the House nor the Senate passed a budget on time last year, but Congress had a total spending level to adhere to when drafting bills because of a bipartisan 2015 budget law. This year, stiff spending caps for defense and domestic programs return if Congress does nothing to ease the bite of sequestration.
One option for the GOP is to stick to the current caps when writing spending bills, though bipartisan opposition to those lower levels suggests those bills would likely need to be completely rewritten at the last minute in the fall.
Or lawmakers could decide to ignore those limits entirely. “They could come up with any number they want,” said Stan Collender, a veteran Democratic budget aide now at Qorvis MSLGROUP.
In past years when Congress hasn’t passed a budget, the House and Senate have typically deployed a procedural maneuver to “deem” a top-line spending level. That may be the likeliest course if the fractious GOP is unable to agree on a budget. In the meantime, President Donald Trump’s Cabinet members are hamstrung as they try to plot out their policy agenda.
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said last week he didn't yet have a time frame for dividing up spending levels for his 12 subcommittees.
“We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it,” the New Jersey Republican said. “We’re going to do our job as we always have.”
There’s no guarantee the process will go smoothly even after appropriators get their formal spending allocations.
Republican leaders are already strategizing to avoid a shutdown, but punting on some of the thorniest spending decisions may not prevent a massive political brawl in the fall.
Conservatives feel emboldened by Trump’s proposed cuts to domestic spending and are pushing the same kind of austerity in Congress’ budget. Defense hawks want to raise military spending even above the levels in Trump’s proposal, which called for a Pentagon budget boost. And without having held a floor vote on the budget, GOP leaders lack a key litmus test for what spending levels the rank and file will support.
Democrats, meanwhile, are eager to shield domestic programs from the sequester. They also are frustrated that the spending process is stalled at least in part because Republicans are using budget reconciliation procedures to try to repeal Obamacare.
“Republicans are playing politics with the budget,” said Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), an Appropriations Committee member. “They’re not doing an honest budget because they want to use the budget process to jam though health care, and one of the consequences is it makes it very hard to write appropriations bills.”
Sen. John Hoeven (R-N.D.), who oversees agriculture spending, said he will probably start writing his bill soon at the budget sequestration level — a figure that would require some cuts compared to current spending.
“We’ve talked about some hearings. ... I’m not sure, we’ll have to see. I have to get a sense of what that top-line is,” Hoeven said. “We want to get going, no doubt about it, because we’d like to go through regular process.”
Betsy DeVos and extended members of the Education secretary's wealthy family have contributed at least $22,500 to one of President Donald Trump’s judicial nominees for the judge's campaign for a state Supreme Court seat, according to a review of campaign finance records.
Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen, whom Trump has nominated to the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, collected $2,500 each from DeVos and eight relatives on Aug. 9, 2016, according to Michigan records. The donations were made several months before Trump nominated DeVos to be Education secretary. Larsen was appointed to the state’s high court in 2015 and was formally elected last November.
Story Continued Below
But Larsen’s profile rose nationally well before her victory to the Michigan court last fall, when then-candidate Trump named her to his short list of potential Supreme Court nominees during his presidential campaign.
Members of the DeVos family who contributed to Larsen’s judicial campaign in Michigan included DeVos; her husband Dick, who is president of investment firm The Windquest Group; Dick DeVos’ parents, Richard and Helen; Dan DeVos, Betsy DeVos’ brother-in-law and his wife, Pamella; another brother-in-law, Doug DeVos, and his wife, Maria; and sister-in-law Suzanne Cheryl DeVos. The family’s patriarch, Richard DeVos, co-founded Amway, the global direct-sales company.
"Betsy DeVos and her family's donations to fellow far-right Republicans like Joan Larsen are a bright flashing sign to Donald Trump that Larsen is a hard-line conservative who will back Trump's extreme policies from the bench,” said Kevin McAlister, a spokesman for the Democratic opposition research group American Bridge, which flagged the donations to POLITICO.
“DeVos' donations to Senate Republicans helped grease the wheels to her confirmation and now, the DeVos family contributions to Trump's judicial pick are helping to get her one step closer to a lifetime seat on the 6th Circuit that will be dangerous to working families."
Officials at the White House and at Education Department did not return requests seeking comment.
Betsy DeVos’ deep well of campaign contributions to Republican candidates and conservative causes became one of several flash points during her contentious confirmation battle. During her hearing, DeVos said it was “possible” that her family has made $200 million in campaign contributions over time, while liberal groups pressured GOP senators who had gotten checks from the DeVos clan to recuse themselves from voting on her confirmation.
None did, but DeVos was narrowly confirmed to lead the Education Department only after Vice President Mike Pence cast a tie-breaking vote. Two Senate Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — opposed DeVos in her confirmation vote in February.
The battle over Larsen has yet to begin in earnest in the Senate, which handed Trump an early win with the confirmation of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court in April and installed Amul Thapar, the first of Trump’s nominees to the lower courts, just last week. Larsen was among 10 judicial nominees announced by the White House earlier this month.
Democratic senators actually have more leverage against Larsen’s nomination than other judicial candidates, since she hails from a state represented by two Democrats who could try and block her confirmation proceedings through the so-called blue-slip rule. The Senate Judiciary Committee has traditionally not scheduled hearings for judicial nominees until both home-state senators return a blue slip to the committee — giving the in-state duo effective veto power.
But that may change. Senate Republicans this year have already signaled that they are less willing to abide by the blue-slip rule for circuit court nominees, who would sit on a court that spans several states, rather than for district court candidates who represent a single state. Larsen has been nominated for the 6th Circuit, which is based in Cincinnati and hears appellate cases from Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee.
Whether Michigan's senators — Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, who are both Democrats — will try and block proceedings for Larsen isn't yet determined. An aide to Stabenow said the senator has not yet received Larsen’s paperwork, while a spokeswoman for Peters said the senator had not made a decision.
Larsen, who clerked for the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, has also served as an adjunct professor at the University of Michigan Law School and in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department under former President George W. Bush.
More than 40 House Democrats are urging the White House to revoke Jared Kushner's security clearance "to protect national security" until the FBI resolves its investigation of potential collusion between associates of President Donald Trump and agents of the Russian government.
The lawmakers expressed concern over recent reports about Kushner's secretive meeting with Russia's ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, including that Kushner, President Donald Trump's senior adviser and son-in-law, sought a back channel to the Kremlin that would rely on Russian facilities to avoid detection by U.S. officials.
Story Continued Below
"While the various congressional and law enforcement investigations continue, the White House should take all possible steps to protect national security including immediately revoking Mr. Kushner's security clearance," the lawmakers wrote in a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn.
Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.), who spearheaded the letter, raised similar concerns in April, when reports indicated Kushner had omitted the Kislyak meeting from his application for a security clearance.
"Multiple reports now say that he discussed opening a secret line of communications that could be monitored by Russian intelligence but not American intelligence, which would be disqualifying," Beyer said in a statement to POLITICO. "Jared Kushner cannot be trusted.”
It's a sharp escalation from Democrats aimed at Kushner. When Beyer initially raised his concerns in April, just four Democrats joined his call, and they noted that Kushner's failure to detail his meetings with foreign officials could amount to a felony. This time, at least 41 had signed on by Wednesday evening, and more were expected to add their names by Thursday.
The signers include House Armed Services Committee ranking member Adam Smith of Washington and Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio, as well as the five signatories on the April letter: Beyer, Ted Lieu of California, Jerry Nadler of New York, Jamie Raskin of Maryland and Peter Welch of Vermont.
The Trump administration has largely defended Kushner, with top officials emphasizing that back channels are a routine part of diplomacy. But Democrats note the meetings came after intelligence agencies issued an assessment that Russia had actively interfered in the 2016 presidential election and after the Obama administration had levied sanctions in retaliation.
Senate Democrats called Thursday for President Donald Trump’s company to disclose significant more details about how it’s been operating since its owner became president.
In a letter to the Trump Organization’s new leadership, including the president’s adult sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, Sen. Patrick Leahy and 16 other Democrats also questioned whether their company remains “effectively a pass-through for income” that repeatedly puts the president in violation of the Constitution’s ban on accepting gifts or payments from foreign government officials or the U.S. government itself.
Story Continued Below
Citing a spate of recent media reports, the senators said Trump’s pre-inauguration pledge to extricate himself from his company didn’t square with his son Eric Trump’s recent statement that he’s giving his father business updates “probably quarterly.” They also challenged Trump over a trust arrangement he set up that allows him to take “net income or principle” from his trust whenever he wants.
“It defies common sense to believe that this type of arrangement resolves the President’s conflicts of interest,” the senators wrote. “It also raises serious questions regarding how such an arrangement could credibly insulate the President from unending Emoluments Clause violations.”
The Democrats posed a series of specific information requests to the Trump Organization. They want to know whether the company is generating any income from federal or state governments or foreign governments, and if it is, the Democrats called on the company to say whether that money is separated and reported in a different account.
They also asked for a “complete accounting” of federal funds paid to the Trump Organization for space at Trump Tower or at the president’s golf courses to rent golf carts; and they pressed for an estimated value from the 38 Chinese trademarks that the Trump Organization recently obtained, as well as an additional 157 pending trademark applications in 36 countries detailed in a recent New York Times report.
As the minority party, Senate Democrats don’t have the power to compel the Trump Organization to answer its questions, and their letter asked only for a response “as soon as possible.”
Across the Capitol, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) earlier this month did obtain materials from the Trump Organization detailing its arrangement for identifying and donating profits to the Treasury Department that come from foreign officials who make payments to any of the president’s businesses. A spokeswoman for the committee said staff were “still reviewing the docs” and declined to answer follow-up questions about whether they’d be made public.
The Trump Organization and White House did not respond to requests for comment about the latest Senate Democratic letter.
Rod Rosenstein already knew James Comey was going to be fired as FBI director when he wrote the three-page memo that the White House would later assert had sealed Comey’s fate, multiple senators said Thursday as they left a highly-anticipated briefing with the deputy attorney general.
Rosenstein learned Comey was being ousted on May 8, according to Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), but the memo is dated May 9 — the day the firing took place.
Story Continued Below
“It was very clear that he learned before he wrote the memo that Comey was going to be removed,” added Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.). “Somebody made a decision to remove Comey before he wrote the memo.”
Rosenstein declined to say who asked him to write the memo, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) said.
White House officials originally said Comey’s firing came at the recommendation of Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, but President Donald Trump later undercut that argument when he told NBC News he planned to fire Comey regardless.
Trump then appeared to reverse himself and cited Rosenstein's memo during a Thursday afternoon press conference with the Colombian president.
“Director Comey was very unpopular with most people. I actually thought when I made that decision — and I also got a very strong recommendation, as you know, from the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein,” Trump said. “He had the very poor performance [before Congress]. … I believe that’s why the deputy attorney general went out and wrote his very, very strong letter.”
Thursday’s all-senators briefing was scheduled earlier this week at the insistence of Democrats, who wanted to question Rosenstein about his role in Comey’s ousting. Senators emerging from the meeting, which took place in a secure room in the Capitol, said Rosenstein made clear he was giving his newly appointed special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, wide leeway to run the FBI’s Russia investigation as he sees fit.
“He said over and over again that Mueller is going to draw the scope of this investigation, that Mueller is going to have the resources, that Mueller is not going to be interfered with by him or the Department of Justice,” Durbin said.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said the briefing made clear to him the FBI’s investigation into Russia’s election meddling had transitioned from being a counterintelligence probe to being a full-fledged criminal probe.
"It was a counterintelligence investigation until now," Graham told reporters. "It seems to me now to be considered a criminal investigation."
Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said Rosenstein pledged to let Mueller take the FBI investigation in any direction — including exploring allegations of obstruction of justice.
"He was very clear that Director Mueller has the latitude to decide where this investigation goes," Murphy said. "He was pressed on that several times. And every single time he reaffirmed that Director Mueller has the ability to bring this investigation wherever it needs to go, including any questions of obstruction of justice."
The FBI’s Russia investigation, which includes looking into possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign, is running parallel to investigations by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence panel, said as he left the briefing he wanted to set up a meeting with Mueller for him and Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.).
Warner and Burr had a close relationship with Comey, meeting frequently with the then-FBI chief to ensure their Senate investigation would not conflict with the FBI’s probe.
Thursday's briefing was announced on Monday — ahead of Tuesday's explosive reports that Comey himself wrote memos detailing his meetings with Trump, including one where Trump allegedly urged Comey to drop his investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
Democrats had demanded the briefing in the wake of Comey's firing and had originally planned to use the session to press Rosenstein to appoint a special prosecutor to oversee the FBI's investigation into Russia's election meddling. Rosenstein's decision Wednesday to do exactly that took some of the heat off of him, and Democrats heaped praise on him for the decision as they left the briefing.
Rosenstein’s controversial three-page memo blasted Comey for what Rosenstein described as unfair treatment of Hillary Clinton during the FBI's investigation into her private email server.
"The reason why Comey was fired is because the president wanted to fire him,” Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.) said as he left the briefing. “Mr. Rosenstein, that was for show. The president wanted to fire him, he fired him. And they thought about having some documentation to show it and thought it was a good idea. That's not the case."
Several senators griped as they left that they didn’t learn anything new, with Rosenstein declining to discuss the FBI’s Russia probe except to assure them Mueller would face no political obstacles. Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said Rosenstein plans to release the opening statement that he delivered to senators inside the private briefing, adding: “I’ll let you draw what conclusions you will from his opening statement.”
"I'm just really disturbed by the whole presentation," said Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). "We learned nothing except things designed to make him look good."
Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) mused that the meeting was "really not a big deal to be honest."
And Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) said it was a "good question" why the briefing was even held because he learned so little, adding that the only thing he took away was how to pronounce Rosenstein's name correctly.
Speaker Paul Ryan on Thursday doubled down on a vow to reform the tax code this year, an optimistic timeline that could face headwinds amid the ongoing Russia investigations.
The Wisconsin Republican, a policy wonk eager to show voters that Congress is still focused on the GOP agenda, chafed at a question about whether tax reform would slip beyond 2017.
Story Continued Below
“I don’t think this is the case,” Ryan said at a news conference. “Our goal, and I believe we can meet this goal, is calendared 2017 for tax reform. And I think we’re making good progress.”
Ryan’s timeline, however, is optimistic, to say the least. Republicans in January, for instance, initially thought they’d get an Obamacare repeal bill to the president’s desk by mid-April. It’s now mid-May and the bill has yet to get far in the Senate.
What’s more, the unraveling scandal surrounding President Donald Trump’s relationship with Russia has sucked up all the energy in Washington. Lawmakers have been forced to respond to allegations that Trump tried to pressure the FBI into dropping an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, or shared classified information with Russian officials — questions they hardly want to answer.
GOP insiders hope that the Justice Department’s move appointing a special prosecutor to take over the case will take the heat off them for a while, allowing leaders to focus on policy.
During his news conference, Ryan also gave a full-throated endorsement of his controversial border adjustment tax proposal, which essentially hikes taxes on imports in an attempt to get companies to keep their headquarters in the U.S.
The White House and Senate have been extremely lukewarm to the idea, which is intended to free up $1 trillion to lower tax rates for businesses and individuals but could drive up the price of goods when businesses pass the tax on to consumers.
Many privately have predicted that Ryan will drop his push for border adjustment. That, however, doesn’t appear to be the case — at least not yet.
“I obviously think border adjustment is the smart way to go,” Ryan said. “I think it makes the tax code the most internationally competitive of any other version we’re looking at. And I think it removes all tax incentives for a firm to move … their production overseas.”
Ryan also argued that “if you’re not going to do border adjustment, you have to look at the alternatives to that.” Those “alternatives,” which would be axed to reduce tax rates, are breaks for various business industries. Eliminating them would rev up lobbyists fighting tooth and nail to maintain their clients' tax credits or deductions.
That could prove just as unpalatable to critics of border adjustment, or worse.
Speaker Paul Ryan wants House committees to continue their investigation of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election — despite the Justice Department’s move to name a special prosecutor to probe the matter.
The Wisconsin Republican told reporters Thursday that the department’s decision to tap former FBI Director Robert Mueller to lead the investigation doesn’t at all interfere with the House Intelligence Committee’s work.
Story Continued Below
“We are going to keep these investigations going here, as I’ve always said,” Ryan said at a press conference. “I think the intelligence committees are the right place to do an investigation involving Russia, involving another country interfering in our elections. And so… these committees are going to continue their investigations.”
The Intelligence panel isn't the only one that's digging into the White House’s ongoing Russia controversy. House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz invited recently-fired FBI Director James Comey to testify next week. The Utah Republican wants to question Comey about reports that President Donald Trump tried to get him to drop the agency's investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, before ultimately firing Comey.
Asked about Oversight’s work, Ryan was less clear, saying only that it is “appropriate” for the committee to make document requests into the matter.
Ryan did not say whether Chaffetz — who has told sources he will resign on June 30 and head to Fox News — should step down from the gavel early. Ryan declined to comment because he said he did not yet know the details of Chaffetz's departure.
Ryan also agreed with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s assertion that Congress could use a “little less drama from the White House” — namely because he wants to focus on the GOP agenda.
“Well, yeah, it’s always nice to have less drama,” Ryan said. “People in the country need to know that we’re busy at work trying to solve these problems. I realize there’s a lot in the media these days, but that’s doesn’t seize up Congress. That doesn’t stop us from doing our jobs.”
Former FBI Director James Comey might not be able to testify before Congress now that a special prosecutor is overseeing the FBI’s Russia investigation, Sen. Lindsey Graham said Thursday.
Graham, who chairs a Judiciary subcommittee with oversight of the FBI, had sent an invitation earlier this week for Comey to testify in an open session.
Story Continued Below
“I'm not so sure we can do it now,” the South Carolina Republican said. “You've got a special counsel who has prosecutorial powers now, and I think we in Congress have to be very careful not to interfere.”
Graham said that while he was happy with the decision to appoint former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special prosecutor to oversee the FBI’s Russia probe, he thinks the decision means less information can be made public.
“Public access to this is probably going to be very limited now,” he said. “I think a special counsel — he's a good guy, a good pick. I respect the decision. But it's going to really limit what Congress can do. It's going to really limit what the public will know about this.”
Graham also said he had not yet received a response from Comey, who was fired by President Donald Trump last week.
“We're gonna have to put him on a milk carton,” Graham said. “'Have you seen this man?'"
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said he believed the appointment of a special counsel should give Congress a chance to “reset.”
"Essentially the people who wanted a special counsel got what they asked for, so now it's time to let him do his job,” Cornyn said. “I do think whatever committees have some jurisdictional hook on this will be conducting our oversight.
“But I think it's time for maybe a reset in terms of the way we approach these because we're not the Department of Justice, we're not the special counsel,” Cornyn continued. “We don't have the authority to bring cases in court but we do have important responsibilities on oversight and that's where we should be focusing."
Seung Min Kim and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr said Thursday that former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn is not cooperating with his panel’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
But the North Carolina Republican said he does not have a "definitive answer" yet on whether Flynn is complying with a subpoena issued to him last week for documents related to his contacts with Russian officials.
Story Continued Below
Earlier Thursday, The Associated Press reported, based on comments from Burr, that Flynn had informed the panel he would not honor the subpoena. But Burr later said his comments “may have been premature” and that “there may be a day or two left” until the deadline to respond to the subpoena.
“We have not gotten the definitive answer,” Burr clarified. “Michael Flynn has not cooperated with the committee up to this point.”
Asked whether he would recommend a contempt of Congress vote if Flynn fails to comply, Burr responded: “I'm not going to go into what we might or might not do. We've got a full basket of things that we're willing to test.”
Flynn’s lawyer, Robert Kelner, declined to comment when asked last week whether Flynn would comply with the subpoena. Kelner did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday.
If Flynn refuses to comply, Congress could vote to hold him in contempt and refer his case to the Justice Department for criminal charges or to federal district court for civil enforcement. But these routes are long and complicated, and there’s no guarantee they would succeed.
Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) is expected to announce Thursday that he is resigning before the end of this congressional term, according to three sources familiar with his plans.
Chaffetz did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday evening or Thursday morning. Multiple sources say he will leave Congress on June 30.
Story Continued Below
Chaffetz, 50, is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the top investigative body in the chamber. He recently threatened to subpoena James Comey's memos, and invited the fired FBI director to testify next week before his panel.
Chaffetz told POLITICO last month he had begun exploring employment outside Congress. Several sources in the Capitol say Chaffetz has told his colleagues he will appear on Fox News.
Sen. Susan Collins said Thursday that she would still like James Comey, the former FBI director whom Trump fired abruptly last week, to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee as it investigates Russia’s suspected attempts to influence last year’s presidential election.
On Wednesday, the Justice Department named Robert Mueller to probe the alleged Russian election meddling as well as a special counsel, prompting the question of whether senators will still call on Comey to testify for their investigation or if they will defer to Mueller.
Story Continued Below
Collins, a Maine Republican and member of the Intelligence Committee, told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Thursday morning that Comey should still go before the Senate because the two investigations remain distinct.
“I’d still like to have Director Comey testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee as soon as possible, before we go out for the recess, next week,” Collins said. “I think it's important because our investigation is broader.”
“People ask, ‘Why do we need a special counsel and the Senate Intelligence Committee investigation?’” she continued. “And the answer is that we have two very different missions. The special counsel is going to focus on whether or not criminal charges are appropriate. We're focused on counterintelligence policy, and we can impose sanctions on Russia.”
Collins acknowledged that Mueller might not want Comey to go before the Senate because of his own investigation but said that process is important because it would involve a public hearing.
“I hope we can resolve those conflicts,” Collins said. “Any prosecutor-investigator is going to say, ‘I don't want any witness coming before the Senate.’ But I think we can tailor this so that perhaps certain subjects would be off-limit.”
“But our investigation is really important because it will be in public,” she added. “His won't. And we need a far broader set of the facts to come out.”
More and more Republicans have called on Comey to testify this week in the wake of an explosive report that President Donald Trump allegedly asked him to shut down the FBI's investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn.
Former FBI Director Robert Mueller is “probably the best possible choice” the Justice Department could have made for a special prosecutor to lead the investigation into Russian interference into last year’s presidential election and the possibility of collusion between Russian officials and the campaign of President Donald Trump, House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz said Thursday.
Still, Chaffetz (R-Utah) said he remains unconvinced that Mueller’s appointment was necessary in the first place.
Story Continued Below
“Well, I don't know that a special counsel was warranted at this point. I have not seen the direct, full evidence of an actual crime, and I do believe that the career officials are true professionals,” he told ABC’s “Good Morning America” in an interview Thursday morning. “They've done a great job, and they should be allowed to continue to do that job. But with that said, I do think Director Mueller is probably the best possible choice they could have made.”
Mueller’s appointment was announced Wednesday evening by the Department of Justice, a decision made by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who had been overseeing the Russia investigation because Attorney General Jeff Sessions had recused himself from it. The move was greeted warmly by Democrats, who had been calling for such an independent investigation for weeks, but received a chilly reception from the White House, which had long said such a separate probe was unnecessary.
Thursday morning, Trump called the independent investigation “the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history” and complained that the administration of former President Barack Obama and the presidential campaign of Democrat Hillary Clinton, both of which the president accused of committing “illegal acts,” had never faced similar scrutiny.
Even with a newly forming independent investigation, Chaffetz said he expects congressional inquiries into Russian election interference and possible collusion between Trump associates and the Kremlin to continue, even despite the possibility that the multiple probes could interfere with one another.
“Look, the House of Representatives has its own equities and its own interest in this,” he said. “Just because there is an investigation or work being done at the Department of Justice doesn't excuse the Congress from doing its own work and getting to the bottom of things. So that's hardly an excuse that has worked in the past, and it's not going to work moving forward.”
Republicans’ long-held dreams of tweaking Medicaid, repealing Obamacare and overhauling the tax code appear in more jeopardy than ever as scandal and investigations beset President Donald Trump's White House.
Some Republicans fear that subpoenas and congressional inquiries will swamp the time they need to pass a health care or tax bill in 2017 — not to mention renegotiate NAFTA, unify behind a $1 trillion infrastructure plan or build that border wall.
Story Continued Below
“Everything affects our work right now. The more controversy we have the more difficult it is to do things,” said Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). “But this place is filled with controversy, so if you don’t understand that, you’re in the wrong job.”
The Dow fell by more than 370 points on Wednesday, the largest drop since Trump took office, reflecting investors’ fears about the news out of Washington. That plunge was followed by the Justice Department's decision to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate alleged Russian involvement in the presidential election — just the latest in a series of furors involving ties between Trump's campaign and Russia.
It’s not just Republicans’ policy agenda on the line but the party’s own political future. Republicans control the White House and Congress and need to show they can govern, rather than just oppose, major policy packages. Many conservatives supported Trump precisely for that reason — the chance to enact a sweeping agenda. If that opportunity falls away as the White House’s credibility erodes, so too could Trump’s support among lawmakers, establishment Republicans and even his loyal base of voters.
“What has swayed a lot of mainstream conservatives is the possibility that we could do dramatic conservative reform on issues we care about,” said Lanhee Chen, former policy director for the Romney-Ryan presidential campaign of 2012. “The ability to advance a conservative agenda they care about is a big reason why people skeptical of Trump have hung in there.”
Republican lawmakers and Trump supporters say they’re still determined to push through policy wins before the 2018 midterms — with or without the president’s high-profile help. They have had a handful of early victories, including Trump's appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court and the rollback of Obama-era regulations through the formerly little-used Congressional Review Act.
But the congressional calendar is tight, with long recesses in June and August. Floor time will be consumed by the passage of spending bills and action on the debt-ceiling limit this fall, not to mention the ongoing confirmation of Trump’s political appointees. Congress has only so much bandwidth — and now investigations related to Trump's campaign and Russia will be taking up a share. “There are all kinds of questions about hearing time and floor time, if the investigations get more serious and that gets in the way,” said Tevi Troy, a former domestic policy adviser to President George W. Bush. “The mantra of any administration is that you have limited amount of time to get stuff done, and you need to keep pushing to get things done.”
Lawmakers seem prepared for a go-it-alone strategy, as the Senate writes its own version of the health care bill and the House tax writing committee begins its first hearing on tax reform on Thursday. “It’s just something we’d have to confront," said Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). "Would it be a lot easier to do this if other things weren’t ongoing? Of course. We’re just going to have to deal with what we have before us."
The problem with this approach, however, is that even a totally Republican-controlled Congress needs a president to help close a deal. That was certainly the case with the health care legislation that the House narrowly passed this month. In the final hours before the bill passed the House, earning just one more vote than the 216 it needed, Trump had to make several phone calls to win over nervous GOP lawmakers such as Michigan Rep. Fred Upton.
Some Republicans wonder whether Trump will be able to play that role effectively for future votes.
“Every piece of significant legislation gets to a point where it requires the president to deliver the votes for his or her party. I have a real doubt as to whether this administration can deliver the last four to five votes,” said one former Senate Republican leadership aide. “The margin for error is practically nothing and requires the administration to have some juice on the Hill to get anything done.”
For the second week in a row, Senate Republicans have ignored the rising scandal and controversy at their daily lunches, which have been completely devoted to health care. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) briefly mentioned Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s upcoming briefing with senators on Thursday, but other than that there was no discussion of the matter, senators said.
Republicans want to show some independence from Trump and figure that continuing the work on legislation, despite the chaotic White House, will underscore their serious efforts at legislating.
Yet the president’s unpopularity with the broader electorate and penchant for controversy could make it harder to move legislation later this year, several senators acknowledged. One of the chief concerns is that if and when a health care deal emerges, damaging revelations from Trump’s White House could make it impossible to get across the finish line.
“The bigger question is when we do get something that we think we could pass, what’s the political backdrop when we try to do it,” said Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.).
The same concerns could also hinder longer-term policy goals such as an infrastructure proposal or renegotiation of the free trade deal with Canada and Mexico.
Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said this week that the administration will “share its vision” by the end of May for Trump's still-unreleased infrastructure package, leaving Congress to fill in the blanks with legislation later in the year. But while rebuilding the nation's roads and bridges once seemed a fruitful area for Trump to build buy-in from Democrats, the multiplying questions about the president's actions make a kumbaya moment less likely.
As for trade, experts doubt that Canada and Mexico will be motivated to pursue talks in August — the earliest they can formally begin — with any seriousness if Trump's troubles worsen. That's especially true given Mexico's elections next year and the fact that neither country wanted to redo NAFTA in the first place.
Even without the investigations and the threat of subpoenas, the White House has already fallen behind its policy agenda of quickly passing health care and tax overhauls through reconciliation and then moving onto other agenda items.
“All of the predictions of productivity for the year were predicated on the assumption that Trump could bring the GOP together,” said one Republican lobbyist. “That assumption has proven faulty so far. The outlook will get even more grim if, instead of being a unifier, Trump becomes a liability. You’re seeing some disturbing signs that this is where this thing is headed.”
To the doubters and naysayers who argue that Republicans cannot work on domestic policy and handle incoming investigations, Trump supporters say: Just wait and see.
“There is a tendency with the Beltway crowd, when there is a headwind, to count him out,” said David Tamasi, the former Washington, D.C., finance chairman of Trump Victory. "Whoever has made that bet in the past has not done well."
Kathryn A. Wolfe and Doug Palmer contributed to this report.
House Republicans facing tough reelection bids are running for cover from Donald Trump — an early sign that they believe the president’s deepening scandals could cost them their seats and even put the House in play.
More than 10 centrist Republicans over the past 48 hours have criticized Trump for reportedly sharing classified information with Russian officials or allegedly trying to quash an FBI investigation. Many joined Democrats in calling for a special prosecutor to take the reins of the Justice Department investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. (The DOJ named a special counsel on Wednesday.) Others want a select congressional committee to be appointed.
Story Continued Below
One swing-district lawmaker, Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida, raised the possibility of impeaching Trump if it turns out to be true that he leaned on FBI Director James Comey to drop an investigation of former national security adviser Michael Flynn. But in case it wasn’t clear how Curbelo felt about the matter, his office called reporters to make sure they emphasized Curbelo was the first Republican lawmaker to utter the “I-word.”
“Obstruction of justice is an impeachable offense, so that is an allegation that we have to take very seriously,” Curbelo told a Miami CBS affiliate. “That does not mean it happened, but if this story is accurate, it may have happened. Whatever the case is, we need to get the facts.”
The break from Trump among centrist Republicans is especially notable because some of them had stuck by the president through the brutal fight over Obamacare repeal legislation two weeks ago, backing an unpopular bill despite great political risk at home.
Case in point: Rep. Steve Knight of California, a top target for Democrats in 2018. Hillary Clinton carried his district by nearly 7 points, and Cook Political Report moved his reelection rating from “lean Republican” to “toss-up” after he voted for the health care bill.
But on Tuesday, after reports that Trump shared classified intelligence with Russia, Knight backed a special prosecutor to take over the ongoing FBI investigation, arguing that “there is so much conflicting information from many sources.”
“Americans deserve the opportunity to learn the truth,” Knight said in a statement.
The moves suggest that the most endangered GOP incumbents believe that loyalty to the White House could cost them their jobs.
“Any member of Congress who represents a marginal or swing district better develop their own brand very quickly,” said Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), who leads the moderate Tuesday Group. “It wouldn’t be too hard to figure out what the opposition’s attacks on them will be: They’re going to call everybody a rubber stamp” for Trump.
Dent also said Republicans “can’t assume for a moment that the majority is safe” — noting that the party controlling the White House typically loses many seats in the first midterm election after the president is elected.
“We’re only talking about a 24-vote swing, and if you believe the political prognosticators, we’ll be in a pretty competitive situation in the midterms,” he continued, referring to the maximum number of seats the GOP can lose and still hold the House.
After the November election, GOP leaders including Speaker Paul Ryan said vulnerable House Republicans did better than expected thanks to Trump’s coattails. But no one is making that argument now.
In the past, GOP leaders have told Republicans to feel free to criticize Trump to reflect the sentiment of their districts.
And GOP insiders say leaders will impart the same message to members in the coming months if Trump continues to stumble.
“Folks in swing districts have to represent their constituents, and that means they’ll be the first to push back in the event that independent and swing voters call for them to be a check on Trump,” said one senior House Republican who asked not to be named.
Protests from moderates continued into Monday and Tuesday after The Washington Post reported that Trump disclosed highly classified information to Russian officials in the Oval Office.
“Media reports are deeply concerning & I will raise issue surrounding disclosure of classified info in @HouseIntelComm when we meet this week,” Rep. Frank LoBiando (R-N.J.) tweeted.
By Tuesday morning, several others had joined him. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) tweeted that “sharing classified info to one of our enemies is a threat to our national security, troops on the ground & relationships w/ trusted allies.” He’s since gone on TV to echo those comments.
Rep. Barbara Comstock, who represents a swing district in Northern Virginia, also jumped into the fray. “We need to have immediate classified briefings on what occurred at this meeting so that Congress can at least know as much as Russian leaders and know the impact on our national security, our allies and our men and women protecting our country,” she said in a statement.
While polls suggest that Republican voters give Trump the benefit of the doubt when it comes to the Russia investigation, the issue has energized the Democratic base. That’s why moderates from districts with large Democratic or independent populations are most exposed as the scandals unfold.
Republicans disagree how much the Russia-Comey controversy might jeopardize their House majority. GOP pollster David Winston said it’s unlikely to be a deciding factor for voters in 2018. But he noted that the drama is distracting elected Republicans from the core issues they campaigned on, including tax reform and jobs.
And that, Winston said, could create a problem.
“One of the things you saw in terms of this election is a frustration of the electorate, their voice wasn’t being heard. They were saying, ‘Why aren’t you paying attention to the issues we’re concerned about?’” Winston said. “The challenge for [Republicans] is that this topic has now been front and center for a while.”
Lawmakers in both parties hailed Wednesday’s appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate Russia’s election meddling — a shift in Republican sentiment after allegations President Donald Trump sought to shut down a related probe.
For Democrats, the move amounts to a major victory. Many of them demanded that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appoint a special prosecutor in the wake of James Comey’s firing as FBI director last week – and vowed not to vote to confirm a successor to Comey until the demand was met.
Story Continued Below
And for Republicans, Mueller's appointment underscores the extent to which the mood is changing when it comes to investigating Trump’s alleged ties to Russia. Most Republicans previously opposed the appointment of a special prosecutor — but a number had expressed more openness to it following allegations Tuesday that Trump told Comey to shut down the FBI’s investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
And key Republicans jumped on the special prosecutor bandwagon on Wednesday after the announcement that former FBI Director Robert Mueller had been named to oversee the Russia investigation. The probe includes looking into allegations of coordination between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
“I see it as a positive thing, especially having Bob Mueller involved,” Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said. “It brings a lot of public credibility to whatever process they go through.”
Burr, whose committee is leading its own investigation, had previously opposed the appointment of a special prosecutor. The investigations being conducted by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees into Russia’s election meddling are expected to continue running in parallel to the FBI investigation now overseen by Mueller.
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) both signaled support for the naming of a special prosecutor, with McConnell noting that the Senate Intelligence panel would “also continue its investigation into this matter.”
“My priority has been to ensure thorough and independent investigations are allowed to follow the facts wherever they may lead,” Ryan said in a statement. “The addition of Robert Mueller as special counsel is consistent with this goal, and I welcome his role at the Department of Justice.”
GOP Rep. Darrell Issa also praised the move.
“I view it as good and what we’ve been waiting for and I think it sends the right message that Mueller will go where the facts lead,” said the California congressman and former chairman of the House Oversight Committee. “It was inevitable.”
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, also appeared to endorse the move, saying it shows the Trump administration is taking the investigation “seriously.”
As for Mueller, Meadows said the pick appears to be more favorable to Democrats than Republicans.
“I think he comes with more credibility on the Democrat side than the Republican side,” the congressman said. “But he has credibility on both sides.”
Some Republicans also acknowledged the decision would take some heat off of them as they try to focus on passing a GOP agenda. Republican lawmakers for days have been ducking for cover from reporters peppering them with questions about Trump’s latest controversies.
“I think it takes the issue off the table for the time being,” Rep. Ryan Costello (R-Pa.) told reporters Wednesday night. “We’re trying to separate fact from fiction and we’re getting asked by all of you, respectfully, ‘Should an independent commission be established?’ ‘What about an independent prosecutor?’”
Costello added: "It’s one less question that we have to answer about an extremely confounding and contentious issue that a lot of people are politicizing.”
Other Republicans lauded Mueller, who served as FBI director for 12 years under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
Mueller “has sterling credentials and is above reproach,” said Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Because of his experience leading the FBI for more than a decade, Mr. Mueller has established relationships with FBI agents and will be able to move forward quickly. He is well respected on both sides of the aisle and will inspire public confidence in the investigation.”
House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) also praised the Mueller pick, saying he is confidence he will “serve with integrity and professionalism, and will conduct a thorough and fair investigation.”
Senate Democrats also lauded the decision to appoint a special prosecutor.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement Wednesday that Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had “done the right thing” by appointing a special prosecutor.
“Former Director Mueller is exactly the right kind of individual for this job,” Schumer said. “I now have significantly greater confidence that the investigation will follow the facts wherever they lead."
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) called Mueller "a respected public servant of the highest integrity.” But Pelosi added that she still wanted an independent commission to investigate Trump’s Russia ties.
Mueller "cannot take the place of a truly independent, outside commission that is completely free from the Trump Administration’s meddling,” Pelosi said in a statement. "A special prosecutor does not negate the need for vigorous congressional investigations either."
Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s leading the House investigation into Russia’s election meddling, said he does not expect the special prosecutor to affect his ongoing probe.
“I don’t think so. We’ll see. My guess is no,” he said. “We never had criminal prosecutorial tools and if we found something, we’d have to turn it over to Justice anyway.”
Conaway said he doesn’t know Mueller personally but that he “has a great reputation in the industry.”
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, called Mueller’s appointment “a good first step” for getting to the bottom of Russia’s role in the 2016 presidential election and allegations of coordination with the Trump campaign.
“I know Bob Mueller. I knew him as a United States attorney in San Francisco when I was mayor. I knew him as … FBI director,” Feinstein told reporters. “He’s a stalwart, wonderful man and I think he’ll be a great special counsel.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) noted that the appointment of Mueller, who was twice unanimously confirmed as FBI director by the Senate, would make it easier for senators to install Comey’s successor at the bureau.
“He’s a well-respected law enforcement professional,” Cornyn said of Mueller.
The news, like other revelations in the Russia affair this week, stunned Capitol Hill — with senior Republicans such as Cornyn and Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) saying they had gotten no advance notice of the appointment.
As the decision was being announced, Rosenstein and acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe were seen leaving a secure meeting room in the Capitol, where they had been briefing senior members of Congress.
Not every lawmaker felt the appointment was necessary, however.
"It's fine, but there's absolutely no need for it," said Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.). "Generally, there's a crime. In Watergate, there was a crime. In the [Monica] Lewinsky case, there was a crime. There's no crime here."
Burgess Everett, John Bresnahan, Heather Caygle, Elana Schor, Seung Min Kim, Kyle Cheney, Ali Watkins and Rachael Bade contributed to this report.
House Democrats are buzzing about the possibility of President Donald Trump being impeached. But party leaders aren’t going there — at least not yet.
Top Democrats in the House and Senate know their liberal base is clamoring for a harder line, especially after reports that Trump urged then-FBI Director James Comey to stop investigating ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Story Continued Below
But Democratic leaders first hoped to secure an independent investigation into possible ties between the White House and Russia. (A special counsel was named Wednesday.) Until there’s clear proof Trump broke the law, they say, impeachment chatter does little more than distract from the party’s broader messaging.
“I’m not afraid of the ‘I’ word — it’s independent, an independent commission,” House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley of New York told reporters Wednesday. “That’s also the general consensus of our Democratic leadership.”
Senior Democrats want to avoid looking as if they are gunning for impeachment, aides say.
“There’s a reason that most of my colleagues have” stopped short of suggesting impeachment is in the offing, liberal Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) told Politico. “Not the least of which is, we need to get a lot more facts before us before you could make a conclusion like that.”
But while House Democratic leaders are holding their fire and encouraging members to do the same, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to rein in their rank and file.
“If what Director Comey is saying is true, then we are looking at an impeachable offense,” Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) said in an interview. “This, at the end of the day, has nothing to do with Donald Trump. It has to do with obstruction of justice.”
Democratic Reps. Al Green of Texas, Maxine Waters of California and more than a dozen others are floating the possibility of impeachment as well.
There also has been a clear shift in the GOP’s mood since The New York Times reported that Comey detailed his conversation with Trump in a memo. Three Republicans — Reps. Justin Amash of Michigan, Carlos Curbelo of Florida and Walter Jones of North Carolina — have warned that the allegations against Trump could be grounds for impeachment.
And House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) threatened to subpoena the Comey memo if it isn’t willingly handed over by the administration, a move backed by Speaker Paul Ryan.
Still, Democratic leaders are holding back from discussing impeachment despite mounting pressure from the left to force the issue. Liberal demonstrators thronged the White House the day after Comey’s firing, and activists are pressing hard on what they think is a clear obstruction of justice case against Trump.
Democratic leaders want to prove that case first, opting to wait and see whether Trump writes his own case for impeachment first.
Both Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) publicly tamped down impeachment talk this week, and Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said Wednesday he’s urged patience to the party’s activists.
“I’ve been talking to the base since November the 9th and telling them this is a marathon, it’s not a sprint,” Durbin said. “We have an orderly process in our government. We’re going to follow it. They don’t like to hear it, but I think that’s the facts.”
And House Democratic leaders are sticking with the game plan they had mapped out for the week long before the latest Comey news broke: deployment of a rarely successful procedural tactic to force a floor vote on legislation establishing an independent commission.
The discharge petition unveiled Wednesday would require about two dozen Republicans to sign on in support. The petition is expected to fail, but Democrats hope the latest reports will pressure at least some Republicans to join them.
In the Senate, Democrats’ focus remains on piecing together possible evidence to argue that Trump engaged in obstruction of justice — an offense that legal experts have said could raise the prospect of eventual impeachment proceedings.
The Senate Intelligence Committee issued a bipartisan request for Comey’s memo, and the former FBI director is expected to publicly testify soon, perhaps before Senate and House committees.
“We are at most a week or two away from having concrete, direct evidence and testimony,” Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said in an interview. “And, at that point, it’s my hope and expectation that Republican leaders in the Congress will step up to their responsibilities if the facts are as alleged.”
Two Senate Democratic Caucus members, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Maine independent Angus King, have raised the prospect of impeachment in TV appearances this week. But both later clarified that they want to see the investigative process go ahead first, illustrating that Senate rank-and-file Democrats are more reluctant than their House counterparts to predict Trump’s political demise.
“What the remedy would be depends on what the evidence is,” Blumenthal said in an interview. “My focus right now is pursuing the evidence and following it wherever it leads.”
Comey’s firing last week, followed by reports that Trump leaked highly classified information to Russian officials in the Oval Office, had already ramped up calls to remove Trump from office. But allegations that Trump tried to interfere in a federal investigation and shield Flynn, who was fired for lying to the vice president about his conversations with the Russian ambassador, is like pouring gasoline on a long-simmering fire.
Still, senior Democrats warn talk of impeachment is a gravely serious matter that shouldn’t be batted about lightly.
“Because it’s such an extraordinary and wrenching remedy,” said California Rep. Adam Schiff, the House Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, “it’s not something I believe that people should wish for — whether you like or dislike the president.”
Furthermore, with the prospect of impeachment still far, far off in a Republican-controlled Congress, Democrats in both chambers want to stay focused building opposition to the GOP’s Obamacare repeal effort. They’re well aware that the Trump scandals dominating the news cycle threaten to shift attention from unpopular parts of the Republican agenda.
Given that media environment, Democrats argue, the key to breaking through is to present a united front.
“We have big battles ahead,” said a Democratic leadership aide. “The last thing we need is the base distracted over something that, right now, is a waste of time.”
John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz is inviting former FBI director James Comey to testify next Wednesday at 9:30 a.m.
Chaffetz (R-Utah) told POLITICO he has officially scheduled the hearing and is in the process of trying to connect with Comey. The hearing will be the day the FBI is due to send documents to the oversight panel.
Story Continued Below
Comey hasn't officially accepted the invite, "but wants to testify publicly as soon as he can," one person who has spoken to Comey said. "They are trying to connect," this person said.
The leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday asked the FBI to turn over memos prepared by former Director James Comey detailing conversations he had with the White House and Justice Department about the FBI’s Russia investigations.
Separately, four top members of the Senate Judiciary Committee wrote separately to the FBI and to the White House seeking any documents that detail communications between the fired FBI director and Trump, as well as other paperwork on the matter stemming back to the Obama administration.
Story Continued Below
“We need all those memos,” Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said in an interview. “We’re going to try to get not just the Comey memo as you heard in my letter, but all memos, all communications between everybody — Comey, and other people in the hierarchy — and throughout the organization, wherever we have to, and over a long period of time.”
The senators requesting the documents — Grassley and Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) — said they want the records by May 24. Grassley said late Wednesday that he also sent a letter to Comey, asking him to appear before the Judiciary Committee.
In the Intelligence Committee, Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) also sent a letter Wednesday to Comey asking that he testify before their panel in open and closed sessions. The senators had previously asked Comey to testify in closed session this Tuesday, but he declined.
Their request follows a letter House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz sent the FBI on Tuesday asking for copies of memos documenting Comey's communications with President Donald Trump. “I have my subpoena pen ready,” the Utah Republican added on Twitter.
Lawmakers in both parties are demanding that Comey testify before Congress and that his memos be turned over after a New York Times report that Comey wrote in a memo that Trump asked him to shut down the FBI’s investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. The Times also reported that Comey wrote memos detailing all his conversations with Trump.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) has also invited Comey to testify before a Senate committee.
Anxiety and dismay spread throughout the ranks of Capitol Hill Republicans on Wednesday as lawmakers reckoned with the fallout from the James Comey scandal and the damage it could cause to President Donald Trump and their own agenda.
Republicans quickly split into factions — from defending Trump and blaming the media on one end, to calling for a special prosecutor and even raising the specter of impeachment on the other — as they responded to news that Trump allegedly pressured the former FBI director to drop the agency's investigation of Trump's ex-national security adviser Michael Flynn. Many others demanded that Comey testify and turn over private memos documenting his conversations with Trump.
Story Continued Below
Privately, Republicans are plainly distressed and even panicked over what a prolonged scandal could mean for their agenda and grip on power. Some wonder whether Trump will still be president next year, while others are frustrated that the White House hasn't done more damage control. Chatter has begun about what a President Mike Pence might look like.
And many lawmakers don't want to defend Trump publicly because they don't know what damaging revelation will come next.
“Things are tough now, we all know that,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said of the mood on Capitol Hill. “What do you think this is, a joy ride?”
Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and party leaders appear mostly to be playing for time and trying to provide political cover for their rank and file. Ryan said he would reserve judgment until the facts are out, but that Congress should seek out those facts. He's backing House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s effort to have Comey appear before his panel, one of at least three committees seeking to hear directly from the ex-FBI director. Chaffetz called a May 24 hearing with Comey, although the Oversight chairman hasn’t yet connected with him.
More than a half-dozen Republicans — including Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois — are joining Democrats in calling for the appointment of a special prosecutor or independent commission to investigate the Trump-Comey interactions, as well as the alleged ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. Another bloc is open to such a move if more damaging information emerges. Murkowski said Wednesday that “it may be that we need to look” to the independent avenues to investigate the matter.
Trump backers — a small but vocal group — deny the president did anything wrong. They blame the media, the “deep state” and Democrats for the president’s problems.
And least three House Republicans — Reps. Justin Amash of Michigan, Carlos Curbelo of Florida and Walter Jones of North Carolina — have warned that the allegations against Trump, if true, could constitute obstruction of justice and an impeachable offense. Sen. John McCain compared Trump’s situation to Watergate.
"I think it could be" impeachable, Jones told POLITICO. "We have to see where the evidence goes. If the evidence proves — and there has to be a proof — that there is reason for a discussion on impeachment, then it needs to happen... If we don't protect the truth and defend the truth, then there's no hope.... This has probably been the four months that I have felt like my nation is upside down."
Multiple Republicans said there's been a palpable mood change inside the GOP, as lawmakers worry that a Trump implosion could wreck their own careers.
“If what the [New York Times] reported is true, Pence is probably rehearsing,” said one House Republican. “It’s just like Nixon. From the standpoint that it’s never the underlying issue, it is always the cover-up. It’s this denial. This whole notion that if he did tell Comey to stop the investigation and then later fires Comey, it’s hard not to make a practical case of obstruction.”
During a closed-door House GOP meeting on Wednesday, Ryan tried to contain the political fallout by urging members to avoid a rush to judgment. Ryan told reporters after the session that there are many “unanswered questions,” and that he won't make up his own mind based on “speculation and innuendo."
"We need the facts," Ryan said. "It is obvious that there are some people who want to harm the president. But we have an obligation to carry out our oversight regardless of which party is in the White House."
Many Republicans took his advice, either dodging questions from reporters or trying to downplay the current impact of the scandal in their public comments.
“There’s a lot of talk, there’s a lot of reporting going on,” said Rep. Steve Womack (R-Arik.). “We need the facts. That was the message and I think it’s a reasonable and prudent message from leadership. There is a tendency to respond to conjecture and give opinions on ‘what if.’ And I’m not sure that’s really constructive.”
Added Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas: “I’m not going to reach a conclusion based on news stories. We need to conduct our oversight and investigation and satisfy ourselves as to what the facts are.”
At the same time, though, a growing chorus of congressional Republicans is calling for Comey to testify before Congress about his interactions with Trump — including whether Trump tried to obstruct the criminal probe of Flynn's connections with Russia.
Chaffetz has asked the FBI to turn over any records it has on the Trump-Comey interactions. Chaffetz also wants Comey to appear before his panel and said he will subpoena Comey if necessary.
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) is also asking the FBI and White House to turn over any documents they have on Trump and Comey. He said Wednesday evening that he sent a letter to Comey, asking the former FBI director to appear before his committee.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said in an interview that if Comey doesn't hand over his notes on his conversations with Trump, they should be subpoenaed.
"We need to see the memo," Rubio said. "We need to have Comey come in and testify."
More Republicans also appeared open to appointing a special prosecutor or independent commission to investigate the ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
“I think it’s time that we look at the idea of an independent commission or special prosecutor. I’m not sure the best venue," Kinzinger told CNN. "But I think it’s time that we do whatever is necessary that when this is over, we give people confidence that either way, either way it goes, justice has been served."
Still, a number of Republicans are waving off allegations that Trump tried to stop the FBI's Flynn probe then fired Comey over the issue. His most ardent defenders in the party claim it's all hearsay and there's no proof yet that Trump did anything improper.
Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the most senior GOP senator, said he believes the entire narrative is “overblown” and he wants to put the Comey memo story “to bed.” He does not believe that Comey should be hauled in front of Congress for public testimony.
“It’s up to them to determine how they want to do it. I never impose,” Hatch said of the White House in an interview. Asked whether he believed Comey should testify, Hatch broke with some of his colleagues: “Not particularly. I think it’s overblown."
"It's hearsay so far," added Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.). "For all I know, nobody's seen the memo… Also it's Comey writing a memo from a conversation, so it's a lot of hearsay.”
Loudermilk also argued that there’s “nothing illegal about” anything that’s been reported. Asked whether it constitutes obstruction of justice he said: “No…. That’s not political pressure being put on someone. That's an opinion being expressed."
John Bresnahan, Austin Wright and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
It is “inevitable” and “inescapable” that former FBI Director James Comey will testify before Congress about his interactions with President Donald Trump and allegations that the president asked him to end an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, Sen. Marco Rubio said Wednesday morning on Fox News.
Citing contemporaneously written memos by Comey, The New York Times reported Tuesday evening that Trump told the FBI director during a one-on-one meeting last February that “I hope you can let this go,” in reference to the bureau’s probe into Flynn’s ties to the Russian government.
Story Continued Below
The White House quickly responded with a statement that such a conversation never occurred, but Rubio said the Times report will only fuel calls for Comey to testify before Congress that began last week when he was abruptly fired by Trump, who later said he had done so with the FBI’s Russia investigation weighing on his mind.
“Look, it's inevitable now and inescapable. I thought he was going to have to do this anyway,” the Florida Republican told “Fox & Friends.” “But given what we read yesterday in the newspaper, Director Comey, or former Director Comey, will have to testify before Congress, I imagine before the Judiciary Committee, and he's going to have to turn over these notes and anything else that he kept, and we'll go from there.”
Rubio was quick to caution, though, that aside from the two men involved in the conversation, “no one knows entirely what happened.” He noted that even the Times reporting, which was quickly matched Tuesday by other media outlets, was not sourced to Comey or even directly to his memo, but instead to individuals with knowledge of the memo’s contents.
Rubio said his intention was not to denigrate the media’s reporting on the issue or even to call into question its veracity, only to insist that the unfiltered facts make their way into the public.
More broadly, Rubio said Trump, whose campaign for president was built around his unconventional experience as a businessman and his separation from the “swamp” of Washington politics, would benefit from some increased measure of controls inside his White House.
“Well, look, ultimately I think systems are important and so working out systems internally within the White House, there is a reason why — I mean, you don't have to be purely conventional, but there is a value to convention,” he said. “There's reasons for these systems, and I think if the White House became more systematic in its approach to messaging and scheduling and the like, they would avoid some of the friction that you're now seeing.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan urged lawmakers to be “sober” about swirling allegations that President Donald Trump asked FBI Director James Comey to call off an investigation into his national security adviser Mike Flynn.
“That is our job, to be sober, to be passionate … and to follow the facts wherever they may lead,” he said.
Story Continued Below
“It is obvious – there are some people out there who want to harm the president,” he said. “We have an obligation to carry out our oversight, regardless of which party is in the White House. That means before rushing to judgment we get all the pertinent information.”
Ryan added that he expects Congress to hear from Comey, and he wants to know why the director “didn’t take action at the time” Trump reportedly pressured him to halt the Flynn investigation. The New York Times reported Wednesday that Trump made the request during a February dinner with Comey, according to a memo Comey kept of the encounter.
As he exited the press conference, Ryan was asked whether he still had confidence in Trump.
“I do,” he said.
The House may finally be on its way to scrapping Obamacare, but don’t expect the Senate to go along: Any plan sent over will undergo major surgery — and survival is far from assured.
The hurdles in the upper chamber were on vivid display Wednesday as House Republicans celebrated their breakthrough on the stalled repeal effort. The compromise cut with House Freedom Caucus members won over the right flank, but the changes will almost surely make it harder to pick up votes in the more moderate-minded Senate.
Story Continued Below
Not to mention that some Senate conservatives still seem opposed to the emerging House deal.
“The Freedom Caucus has done a good job of trying to make the bill less bad,” Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), one of the lead Senate agitators against the House health care push, said Wednesday. “For me, it’s a big stumbling block still that there’s taxpayer money that’s being given to insurance companies, and I am just not in favor of taxpayer money going to insurance companies.”
Phil Novack, a spokesman for Sen. Ted Cruz , also indicated that the conservative Texas firebrand isn't sold, saying “significant work remains” in the Senate, “specifically to address Obamacare’s insurance mandates and enact major patient-centered reforms that will further reduce the cost of health care.”
Sources say it may take more than a month for any House health care bill to run through the traps in the Senate, including internal party discussions and an analysis of how the measure would affect the deficit and insurance rolls. No committee hearings are planned because Republicans don’t want to give Democrats a public forum to bash an effort they are not involved in. And similar to the Senate's dim view of the House's proposal, the lower chamber may not ultimately be able to pass whatever the Senate is able to produce on Obamacare.
Plus, a procedural rift is beginning to emerge within the GOP, with several Republicans questioning whether reconciliation — the fast-track legislative process that circumvents a filibuster, and thus the need for Democratic support — is even the best avenue for health care overhaul efforts.
Few Senate Republicans are currently engaged in the health care efforts. Several GOP senators declined Wednesday to wade in to the specifics of the revised plan drafted by Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.) and Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), taking pains to note that senators will probably have to rewrite it anyway.
“It isn’t discussed a lot over here,” said Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). “Except for the hard work of [Susan] Collins and [Bill] Cassidy, there’s hardly anything being done.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), the party’s chief vote counter, also downplayed any notion that the new House version of an Obamacare replacement will sail through the Senate intact.
“Once they pass a bill, my assumption is, the Senate’s going to take a look at it but not necessarily be rubber-stamping what they’re proposing,” Cornyn said. “So I would anticipate that we’ll do what we used to do all the time which is, the House will pass a bill, we’ll pass a bill and then we’ll reconcile those in a conference committee.”
Weeks after the spectacular collapse of Obamacare repeal efforts last month, MacArthur and Meadows struck a deal with new language that would allow states to opt out of several key Obamacare provisions, such as its ban on charging sick people higher premiums and the so-called essential health benefits mandate that requires insurers to provide a set of minimum benefits.
The new language was enough to earn the formal endorsement of the Freedom Caucus, but House moderates who were opposed to the previous plan remain wary of backing a proposal that could cause constituents with pre-existing conditions to lose affordable health care coverage. In fact, the new plan may be having the reverse effect on some centrists: Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) had supported the initial Obamacare replacement but now says he’s a “maybe.”
Influential Senate Republicans also raised doubts about whether the new House proposal is workable.
“I think the better approach is to stabilize the insurance pool,” said Cassidy, who is shopping around his own Obamacare replacement measure with Collins. “So one, I’m glad they’re working on common ground. But two, I’m not sure their approach is where I think it will most lower those premiums.”
If legislation does manage to clear the House, it's unclear whether it will get official sign-off from the Senate parliamentarian to qualify for the fast-track reconciliation rules. Under the so-called Byrd rule, only provisions that affect the budget can be taken up under reconciliation.
One senior Senate Republican official said Wednesday that the MacArthur-Meadows language has been reviewed in the Senate, and — for now — "we believe it would" not be ruled out of bounds for reconciliation.
Still, the GOP source cautioned that a final ruling on whether it passes reconciliation muster will have to wait until an official Congressional Budget Office score and Democrats make their case to the Senate parliamentarian. On Wednesday, Democrats were adamant that the new health care deal would not fly under the Byrd rule. A spokesman for Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) the GOP effort "is almost certainly going to run afoul" of Senate restrictions.
A separate Republican source familiar with party strategy said it would likely take a month under the most optimistic circumstances to finish a repeal-and-replace bill under reconciliation rules. There is much work to do: Senators are likely to make Medicaid cuts less severe, deliver more money for opioid funding, make tax credits for the middle class more generous and rework the House’s waivers from Obamacare’s requirements.
The CBO will also have to score the legislation, an assessment that many House Republicans seem unconcerned with, senators said in interviews Wednesday. Many lawmakers requested anonymity to candidly discuss a sensitive matter that divides Republicans.
“If they release text and try to vote on it 26 hours later, it’s a problem. It’s a complicated topic a lot of representatives don’t understand. It’s not an area of their expertise,” said one GOP senator. “They can send it to us, but we’re not going to rush it over here.”
In interviews with senators across a broad ideological range, there was growing irritation with attempts to ram complicated legislative language through the House and expect the Senate to clean it up. Some GOP senators suggested that a bipartisan bill may be the only way to overhaul the health care system in a lasting manner.
“I don’t know if this bill is better … the worst thing we can do is replace it with a Republican-only alternative that doesn’t drive down costs, that doesn’t improve access to care,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). “A Republican-only bill to replace a Democratic-only bill is not what I hope for. I hope for a bipartisan bill.”
Graham is not alone. Several senators said they worry that the current three-step plan — repeal and replacing through reconciliation, making executive action changes to the law and working with Democrats to fix the rest — is unrealistic.
Republicans wonder: Why would Democrats work with Republicans after watching their primary achievement from Obama’s presidency gutted on a party-line vote?
“I would just like to see us maybe show the American people we can work through a normal process. We’ve got majorities in both houses,” said a second GOP senator. “We shouldn’t [use reconciliation] on anything.”
House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen late Wednesday released a short-term spending bill that would give lawmakers an extra week to strike a final deal and avert a government shutdown.
In announcing the stopgap bill, top Republican appropriators in both chambers said lawmakers are close to an agreement that would fully fund the government through September, but they need more time to hash out final details before the Friday deadline for fiscal 2017 funding.
Story Continued Below
Both spending committee chairmen — Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.) and Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) — said lawmakers have made “substantial progress” toward an agreement. Frelinghuysen added that a short-term bill is needed to “finalize” the package.
“I am optimistic that a final funding package will be completed soon,” he said in a statement.
With just two days left until the spending deadline, lawmakers had been expected to pass such a week-long bill. But Democrats this week said they would refuse to back a short-term continuing resolution until it became clear both parties would reach a deal on updated spending levels for the remainder of fiscal 2017.
One of the final sticking points in those negotiations — the dispute over Obamacare subsidies — was resolved earlier Wednesday. But Democrats have argued there are still dozens of remaining items to reconcile.
In one preview of the full-year spending bill, Frelinghuysen announced that the short-term measure extends funding for a retired coal miners’ health insurance program that would have lapsed on April 29.-
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz announced Wednesday that he will take a leave of absence from Congress to undergo surgery on his foot, with an estimated return in mid-May.
The Utah Republican posted a picture of an X-ray on Instagram and wrote that a foot injury he sustained 12 years ago is now prompting him to undergo "immediate" surgery.
Story Continued Below
The estimated recovery time is three to four weeks. Chaffetz said avoiding the procedure could put him "at risk for serious infection."
Chaffetz's absence comes amid a crucial stretch for House Republicans and the Trump administration. There are looming votes on a spending bill to avoid a government shutdown and, potentially, a close vote on legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
"I’m sorry to miss the important work we are doing in Washington," Chaffetz wrote. "This is not an opportune time to be away but medical emergencies are never convenient. I appreciate my constituent’s patience and understanding as I take time to recover."
Chaffetz told POLITICO he plans to fly back to his home state early on Thursday. He said he expects to resume his place in Congress and his panel chairmanship in three weeks, likely after the May recess.
Chaffetz announced last week that he would not be seeking reelection to his House seat in 2018.
“After long consultation with my family and prayerful consideration, I have decided I will not be a candidate for any office in 2018,” he wrote in a Facebook post.
Chaffetz said later in the week he has not ruled out the possibility that he might vacate his seat prior to the end of his current term.
“In the meantime, I still have a job to do and I have no plans to take my foot off the gas," Chaffetz said.
Rachael Bade and John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
Speaker Paul Ryan and House GOP leaders are facing their worst nightmare: a Freedom Caucus-run House committee.
But Trey Gowdy might bail them out.
Story Continued Below
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s announcement last week that he might soon resign from Congress has triggered a behind-the-scenes battle for one of the highest-profile chairmanships on Capitol Hill. And the power vacuum has the potential to cause GOP leaders serious heartburn.
That’s because the committee, which is charged with investigating the executive branch, is stacked with prominent Freedom Caucus members whom House GOP leadership doesn’t trust. Chief among them is Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), a ringleader of the group of far-right agitators. Jordan has made a name for himself as one of the most aggressive Oversight interrogators, but he’s also been a huge problem for leadership over the years.
Jordan is next in line if the most senior member, Rep. Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee, decides not to run. Former Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa of California is third in seniority, but he’s chaired the panel before.
So GOP leaders could face a quandary whether to reward someone whose past behavior has tripped up their agenda and infuriated most of the GOP conference.
Jordan wouldn’t say whether he would run, though people close to him believe he will.
“We’ll see,” was all Jordan would say when asked Wednesday whether he wanted the gavel. “Right now, Chaffetz is the chairman, and I want to continue to support the chairman.”
But sources told POLITICO that they’re not sure Jordan can win the post, and not just because of his rocky relationship with GOP leaders. Many members of the House Steering Committee that chooses chairmen — and is composed entirely of leadership loyalists — don’t like him, either.
GOP leaders and their allies are so worried about a Jordan candidacy that they've begun buttonholing Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) — the former chairman of the House Benghazi Committee and a dark-horse candidate for the Oversight post — to run, according to multiple House sources. While Gowdy often jokes that he hates the high-profile nature of his job and would rather be home watching Hallmark movies with his wife, insiders say he is now considering a bid.
Gowdy’s office declined to comment.
In the meantime, several other Oversight Committee members are quietly jockeying for potential bids as well. Rep. Dennis Ross of Florida, a deputy whip and longtime leadership loyalist, told Speaker Paul Ryan on Wednesday that he plans to run — as long as Gowdy doesn’t.
“I think Trey Gowdy would be exceptional for that … but if he chooses not to do that, I would definitely choose to be in the running for that position,” Ross said in an interview. “I think I’ve got as good a shot as anybody if Trey decides not to do it, so I’m going to make a push for it.”
Ross, a lawyer who also sits on the House Financial Services Committee, chaired the the Oversight Subcommittee on the Federal Workforce and the U.S. Postal Service several years ago. He has a good relationship with Oversight panel Republicans as well as Democrats, but he’s 14th in seniority behind Jordan.
Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.), another Freedom Caucus member who is fourth in line in seniority on Oversight after Jordan, is interested in the gavel as well. He told POLITICO that he’s “making preliminary queries into how realistic or unrealistic a run would be.”
Sanford acknowledged that it would be difficult, if not impossible, for any Freedom Caucus member to win a race for a full committee chairmanship after having antagonized party leaders and their own colleagues for years. In his case, Sanford said he's taken some unpopular stances that may further hurt his cause, such as calling on President Donald Trump to release his tax returns. Sanford could try to argue that would make him a strong check on the president, but it's unclear how far that might get him.
"I think as a generality, it could be tough for a Freedom Caucus member to end up with a chairmanship," Sanford said. "And then add a layer to the cake of I've been fairly robust in calling for the president [to release] his tax returns. I think historically in that [OGR] role, they've generally wanted someone quiet, or compliant, you pick the word, as it relates to the administration in power" being from the same party.
Issa also could run for chairman again. While he was term-limited out last Congress, when Chaffetz took over, House rules would allow him to run again after a reprieve from the post. And a source said he hasn't ruled it out, though his office declined to comment.
Jordan is one of the most influential members of the House, though not always in a constructive way for leadership. He was even floated as a potential long-shot challenger to Ryan for speaker last fall.
In an interview with POLITICO last fall, Jordan said his favorite part of the job was being on the Oversight dais and grilling people he believes are hiding information from him. Indeed, the hard-nosed former wrestling champion is best known for his interrogation of the IRS commissioner and former staffers in the middle of the tea party targeting scandal in 2013.
Jordan also served on Gowdy’s Benghazi committee, receiving praise from right-leaning commentators for challenging the Obama’s White House talking points about the terrorist attack.
Gowdy’s reputation as an unforgiving questioner, however, is just as strong as Jordan’s — and the former federal prosecutor is better liked within the House Republican Conference.
“I think Jordan is obviously a top choice. Gowdy’s great, too, so fortunately we have a lot of good candidates,” said Oversight member Scott DesJarlais of Tennessee, also a member of the Freedom Caucus.
Republicans greeted President Donald Trump's splashy tax rollout Wednesday with muted enthusiasm — hopeful that the tax code could be reformed but eager to hear a lot more details as well as the president’s strategy for success.
Democrats didn’t hold back, slamming the tax outline as a giveaway to the wealthy, which suggests that Trump will have to pass his plan with only the GOP’s narrow majorities.
Story Continued Below
In the hours after Trump’s principles were unveiled for “the biggest tax cut and the largest tax reform in the history of our country” as Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin told reporters, it was clear the administration has a lot of work to do on Capitol Hill.
Perhaps the biggest unanswered question facing Republicans is how they can work with Trump on a tax plan that is expected to pay for itself with massive economic growth. Independent analysts worry about the administration’s math. And adding to the deficit presents a politically perilous choice for many Republicans as well as significant legislative complications.
“I’m very sensitive to the deficit and the $21 trillion worth of national debt,” said Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.).
Mnuchin and other Trump officials said they want to work with Congress on shaping a bill that can pass by the end of the year. But the White House is already spurning a key piece of Speaker Paul Ryan’s tax plan — a proposed tax on imports that would help pay for cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, as Trump has proposed.
Ryan downplayed the provision’s absence in Trump’s plan Wednesday.
“We all agree that in its present form it needs to be modified,” Ryan said border adjustment tax at the law firm BakerHostetler. “We don’t want to have severe disruptions — if you’re an importer or a retailer heavily dependent on importers, we don’t want to shock the system so much that it puts them at a disruptive disadvantage.”
Ryan also told reporters that congressional Republicans have been in close contact with the White House. "This is something we've been talking to them all along," he said.
Republican leaders sought to present some sense of party unity with a joint statement from Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) that called Trump’s principles “critical guideposts,” but which otherwise provided little specific comment on what Trump laid out.
Rank-and-file Republicans said they hoped for more input from the president and more than the document they saw Wednesday.
“I want to give the president a chance to actually produce a bill,” Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) told reporters. “I would prefer not to add to the deficit, but I’m going to wait and see what the legislative language looks like before I take a hard and fast position on any of this.”
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) said the corporate tax cut could prove “workable, but we’re going to need guidance from the president.”
Some saw Wednesday’s principles as more of a messaging document pegged toward the approach of Trump’s 100th day in office than a clear path toward tax reform.
During a tax reform briefing for Republican congressional staff on Wednesday afternoon, White House Communications Director Michael Dubke belabored the unfair treatment of Trump in the press and defended the administration’s accomplishments, according to multiple GOP aides present who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Democrats ridiculed the outline’s high price tag, the benefits to the richest Americans and the potential to personally benefit the president, who refuses to release his tax returns.
“This is an unprincipled tax plan that will result in cuts for the one percent, conflicts for the President, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people,” said Sen. Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee.
Another senior Democrat, Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y), said that that the president should release his tax returns before any Democratic engagement on tax reform.
“The president needs to release his taxes,” Crowley said. “We need to know who’s lent him money and who he owes his allegiance to... [and] what effect would this change in tax structure have,” on Trump’s business?
Despite the White House’s hints at seeking bipartisanship, Democrats said the administration has made close to zero effort to involve them in tax reform talks, on both the leadership and committee levels.
Trump’s principles also did not include investments in infrastructure, which had been considered a possibility to woo Democrats.
“This plan is just tax reform,” said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin at an event at the Newseum Wednesday when asked if infrastructure spending could also be included as a way of courting Democrats. The proposal does call for a childcare tax credit that could interest some Democrats.
Mnuchin also told reporters Wednesday that Trump's tax plan included a potential rollback of the popular deduction for state and local income taxes. That move would be a non-starter with most northeastern lawmakers in both parties, whose constituents benefit heavily from the deduction.
Rep. Richard Neal (D-Mass.), the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, said that the administration had made no outreach to his fellow party members, and wondered aloud whether Trump was even on the same page as congressional Republicans.
“Are we for the border adjustment tax, are we for the president’s plan? It’s not very clear,” Neal told POLITICO, referring to the vagueness of Trump’s proposal. “Has the border adjustment tax succumbed? We need to know.”
Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) echoed Neal’s sentiment. “All I know is what I read in the papers,” he said, adding dryly that “obviously, we are not a deficit-conscious Congress.”
The concern over the deficit is not only an issue for fiscal hawks. Republicans are likely to use a complex procedure known as budget reconciliation to circumvent a Democratic filibuster in the Senate and allow passage of tax legislation with a simple majority rather than 60 votes.
But under Senate rules, reconciliation can only be used if the bill will not add to the deficit after a decade. Non-partisan estimates say that even a two or three year temporary cut to the corporate tax rate would add to the deficit in the long run. That’s why House Republicans included major revenue-raisers like the border adjustment tax and a phase-out of a deduction businesses can take for the interest they pay on debt. Both combined would raise trillions over ten years, offsetting the rate cuts.
When pressed by reporters for more details on how to pay for the president’s goals Wednesday, National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn said simply, “We’ll get back to you with definitive answers on all these details.”
Rep. Mike Conaway, the House’s new top Russia investigator, is telling lawmakers on the Intelligence Committee that they should expect to be in Washington more than usual as the beleaguered probe gets a reboot, panel members said after a closed-door meeting Wednesday.
Committee Democrats welcomed Conaway’s remarks, describing the Texas Republican as a “straight-shooter” who was committed to a thorough, bipartisan investigation into Russia’s interference in the presidential election, including the possibility of collusion with the Trump campaign.
Story Continued Below
“Mike Conaway told us this morning, expect to be in D.C. a little more than you might’ve anticipated,” Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.) told reporters, adding that Republicans and Democrats had agreed to a witness list “in the neighborhood of three or four dozen.” He and other committee members declined to say who would be interviewed.
“It’s going to be a time commitment,” Himes added.
Conaway took charge of the probe earlier this month after House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) announced he was temporarily stepping aside because of a House Ethics Committee investigation into whether he disclosed classified information. The Russia probe suffered a complete breakdown of bipartisanship under Nunes, who critics said seemed more interested in providing political cover for the White House than in conducting an objective assessment of Moscow’s meddling.
Democrats on Wednesday said they believed the investigation was back on track under Conaway, pointing to several signs of progress. The intelligence panel has scheduled a closed hearing for next week with FBI Director James Comey and NSA Director Mike Rogers. It’s working to reschedule a public hearing canceled by Nunes with members of the Obama administration, including former acting Attorney General Sally Yates.
And the panel is now getting access to more documents than it was previously — a development that Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.) suggested might be a result of Nunes’ departure.
“We have wider access now,” Swalwell said, explaining that federal agencies are more willing to cooperate with congressional committees when they work “in a bipartisan fashion.”
“So far, Mike Conaway has been a straight shooter,” said Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas). “It seems like he really wants to get to the bottom of what happened and whether there are Americans who coordinated with the Russians who interfered in our 2016 elections.”
Conaway declined to answer specific questions from reporters about his leadership of the investigation and would not confirm details about what he told committee members during Wednesday’s closed-door meeting.
Instead, he provided the same terse answer to every question he was asked about the investigation: “We're doing an active investigation. We're going to do it in a bipartisan manner. This is serious stuff. And I'm not going to talk about the details.”
A number of questions remain about how the probe will work under the new leadership structure, including how Conaway will share duties with the two Republican lawmakers who are set to work with him to run the investigation — Reps. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina and Tom Rooney of Florida.
“It sort of seems like we’re still trying to figure that out,” Rooney told reporters. “I’ve worked with people like Trey before as a prosecutor and we tend to sort of play off each other. He says something that might remind me to bring something up and vice versa. So it’s a really good team.”
Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, said he felt the investigation was on “a very productive path again.”
“Mike and I are determined to run the committee on the investigation on the straight and narrow,” Schiff told POLITICO. “And I think that’s positive.”
For his part, Nunes declined to say how long he expected the Ethics Committee investigation into whether he disclosed classified information to last.
“I'm not going to talk about any of that,” Nunes said Wednesday.
Darius Dixon contributed to this report.
Senators were alarmed by a Trump administration presentation Wednesday at the White House complex about the dangers of North Korea, though lawmakers in both parties said it was unclear what the president’s next action against the combative nation will be.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis, who led the session, did not divulge whether the United States is considering military options against North Korea after recent weapons tests and military activities were conducted by the regime of Kim Jong Un. And senators said officials did not discuss putting North Korea back on the list of nations that sponsor terrorism, as some lawmakers want.
Story Continued Below
“There’s so many options that we need to be taking that are a long ways away from a strike,” said Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), who is urging the administration to sanction Chinese officials that do business with North Korea. “I have supported putting North Korea back as a state sponsor of terror … no indication yet from the administration.”
President Donald Trump spoke for a few minutes at the classified briefing, according to senators and aides. His comments, said an attendee, were “long at the 30,000 foot, short on the specifics.” Though the session was classified, everything said was already public, the person said.
“It’s a very serious situation. As I knew before I went there,” said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I knew all about it. I didn’t hear anything new because I have been heavily briefed.”
Added Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.): “It’s good to get everyone together. I’m not sure I would have had it ... I knew what was discussed.”
The administration briefed House members afterward at the Capitol. No explicit explanation was given for why all 100 senators were hauled to the White House, though Trump's appearance was likely part of the reason. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) accepted an invitation from Trump to move the briefing from the Senate, where such briefings are typically held, to the White House, according to spokesmen for McConnell and the administration.
"This is the first time I remember anything like this. In my congressional career there's never been a similar type of a meeting held at the White House that I'm aware of," said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) ahead of the meeting. "We've had all-member meetings at the White House, but I don't think they've ever been in a classified setting. They might have been in a sensitive setting."
Joseph Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, a former GOP senator, also briefed senators.
The White House said the meeting was intended to sound the alarm for senators about a situation that's grown increasingly fraught in recent months. The meeting provided an opportunity “to communicate the seriousness of the threat from North Korea,” a senior administration official told reporters. It also allowed the senators to learn about responses the U.S. is considering to the “very grave threat” from a “brutal regime," the official said.
The recent murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s half-brother in Malaysia with a chemical agent, and the secretive state’s advancing nuclear capabilities, have combined to put the administration on alert, the official said.
“We’re looking at a broad range of options obviously across all elements of national power and multi-national power in connection with North Korea,” the official said. “What you’ll see soon is using the economic dimension of national power, as well as the military preparations that are underway.”
Afterward, Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said “of course” he was more concerned about North Korea after the briefing, while Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said he “learned some things” at the meeting.
“It was a sobering briefing and an important opportunity for the entire Senate to hear the emerging plans of the Trump administration to confront what is a very real threat to our security,” Coons said. “This is a very difficult situation that I think is going to require persistent and engaged application of both diplomatic and military resources.”
Austin Wright contributed to this report.
The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee says he’s no longer worried President Donald Trump will notch a quick deal with Russia to undo sanctions it faces for aggression in Ukraine.
Sen. Ben Cardin introduced a bill in February with Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) making it harder for Trump to unilaterally lift sanctions on Russia put in place by the Obama administration. At the time, Cardin said, he considered the matter urgent because of Trump’s friendliness toward Moscow and wanted the bill taken up immediately.
Story Continued Below
But Trump’s more critical rhetoric in recent weeks has reassured the Maryland Democrat that no quick agreement with Vladimir Putin is in the works.
“I thought it was urgent at the time because of the language the president was using in regards to cutting a deal,” Cardin told reporters Wednesday. “I'm not as concerned today as I was three months ago. The president's language today gives no indication that there's anything in the works. I'd still like to see it advance, but it's not as urgent.”
Trump came to office pledging to repair relations with Russia and hinted at a deal to remove sanctions in return for nuclear weapons reductions. Since then, top Trump officials, including U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, have taken a hard line on Russia. Trump also authorized a missile strike on Syria, a top Russian ally. And his administration last week denied a request from Exxon Mobil, which wants to drill for oil in the Black Sea, for a waiver from Russia sanctions.
“I'm not as anxious and concerned that Trump might be cutting a quick deal with Russia on sanctions,” Cardin said.
The senator also introduced a bill in January to impose stricter sanctions on Russia in response to its meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The measure has drawn support from 10 Republicans, including McCain and Graham, but has so far not received a crucial endorsement from Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).
Cardin said he was in negotiations with Corker on a new Russia bill that would incorporate parts of his Russia sanctions measure, possibly including provisions designed to counter Russian propaganda.
“We are talking about trying to see where we can work together,” Cardin told POLITICO. “I think it will be different than the bill we filed.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan said the spending bill to keep the federal government running won’t include funding for Obamacare’s cost-sharing subsidies.
“CSRs, we’re not doing that," Ryan said Wednesday, referring to the subsidy program that helps reduce out-of-pocket health costs for low-income Obamacare customers. "That is not in an appropriation bill, that’s something separate that the administration does.”
Story Continued Below
Lawmakers are "very, very close on everything else" in the spending bill, Ryan said during a press conference. Government funding is set to run out after Friday.
Insurers, state regulators and health care groups have urged Congress to continue funding Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies, warning the law's insurance marketplaces could collapse without them.
The House, which complained the Obama administration illegally funded the subsidies, successfully sued to block the program. But the subsidies continue to flow while the case is on appeal.
If Congress refuses to fund the subsidies, the Trump administration must decide by next month whether to fight the House lawsuit or let the payments end. Trump has often suggested he will use these subsidies as leverage with Democrats on repealing and replacing Obamacare.
Ryan also did not say when the House may reschedule a vote on an updated Obamacare repeal bill, which would allow states to opt out of major Obamacare rules under certain conditions.
The White House is telling lawmakers that it will continue paying Affordable Care Act cost-sharing subsidies, potentially defusing a bruising conflict between Democrats and Trump administration officials that had sparked a new round of shutdown fears in Washington on Wednesday.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi confirmed the news Wednesday afternoon after word started spreading around the Capitol. It was not immediately clear how long the White House planned to keep the money flowing.
Story Continued Below
“Our major concerns in these negotiations have been about funding for the wall and uncertainty about the CSR payments crucial to the stability of the marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act,” Pelosi said in a statement after two phone calls with White House chief of staff Reince Priebus. “We’ve now made progress on both of these fronts.”
With Congress closing in on an agreement, lawmakers were expected to buy another week to finish the deal as a Friday evening shutdown deadline loomed, two sources said. Leaders are leaning toward passing a one-week extension of funding at current levels.
“More progress needs to be made on some of our priorities, and we continue to be concerned about poison-pill riders that are still in this legislation,” Pelosi said.
On Tuesday evening, Pelosi and President Donald Trump’s budget director clashed in a phone call over the Obamacare subsidies threatening delicate bipartisan negotiations to fund the government, according to sources familiar with the matter. The solution to the row appears to be to continue the status quo: paying for the subsidies outside of the congressional spending process. That would give Trump some future leverage over Obamacare while allowing Democrats to say they’ve protected the law, if only temporarily.
And it would allow Republicans to avoid blame for causing chaos and confusion in the insurance markets.
“If we pull the subsidies … I think there would be nobody with a health insurance plan next year.” said Rep. Phil Roe (R-Tenn.).
But some Republicans slammed the White House decision, saying it undermines the party’s position in an ongoing lawsuit that the payments are unconstitutional.
The administration choosing to continue paying the subsidies without congressional approval “is both clearly illegal and unconstitutional,” Rep. Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, said in a statement.
The movement was unlocked after the Tuesday call between Pelosi and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney. The California Democrat told Mulvaney that she could not support a spending bill that doesn’t include a commitment to continuing the subsidies for Americans with low incomes, according to a high-ranking Republican source briefed on the conversation. Mulvaney responded that Trump would not sign a bill to fund the government through September that includes those payments, called cost-sharing reductions, the source said.
“She’s giving him back some of his own medicine,” the source said, referring to Mulvaney’s hard-edged tactics during the 2013 shutdown, which Mulvaney supported as a conservative House member. But Mulvaney “delivered [the] message that Trump would not sign a bill with CSRs.”
A Democratic aide confirmed the call, but said the Trump administration didn’t commit to continuing to pay for crucial Obamacare subsidies starting next month, which could upend the insurance markets.
“Mulvaney indicated that, while the Trump administration had continued the CSR payments, they had not yet decided whether they would make the May payment. Mulvaney made clear that, absent congressional action, the judge’s order would stand and the administration would cease making payments,” the Democratic aide said. The GOP-led House filed a lawsuit against the Obama administration last year, arguing the subsidy payments were unconstitutional. Republicans won an initial ruling in the courts, but the decision was put on hold pending appeal.
Mulvaney, through a spokesman, said the Democratic assertion that he said the administration would stop making the subsidies next month is “false.”
“Let me be clear: The only thing standing in the way of a landmark defense and border security bill is a handful of Democrats who are insisting on an eleventh-hour bailout of Obamacare. We can get this deal done today. There is no excuse not to,” Mulvaney said. “This administration has made CSR payments in the past, and the only reason some are raising this now is to hold the government hostage and find an excuse to oppose a bipartisan agreement.”
Senate Democratic leaders seemed less dug in and leaders have said that as long as the payments continue, they are less concerned about whether it’s the administration or Congress making them.
“She’s been the hardest driver on this,” a Senate Democratic source said of Pelosi.
House Speaker Paul Ryan suggested Wednesday morning that the bill would not include the Obamacare payments.
“CSRs, we’re not doing that,” Ryan said during a news conference. “That is not in an appropriation bill, that’s something separate that the administration does.”
Currently, the payments are made through the executive branch, but that’s subject to a lawsuit that could disrupt the approximately $7 billion in yearly payments.
Lawmakers also were finalizing language to extend insurance benefits for coal miners and aid Puerto Rico’s ailing Medicaid system. Another sticking point is a GOP push to include legislation authored by Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) that would change food labeling regulations to shield companies from lawsuits if a product was incorrectly labeled, according to two Democratic sources.
Negotiators on both sides privately concede a short-term extension is likely in order to hammer out the final details of a government funding deal.
“I think we’re very close,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas.
John Bresnahan, Seung Min Kim and Rachana Pradhan contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump inched closer to his elusive goal of transforming the health care system Wednesday as hard-line House conservatives — once the chief opponents of the GOP plan — embraced a new proposal to replace Obamacare.
Senior House Republican sources said they still didn’t have the votes for passage Wednesday evening. But GOP leaders felt bullish enough about their progress that they began considering a vote as early as this week. Nothing is scheduled. However, Republicans on Wednesday — through an obscure House rule for another piece of legislation — gave themselves same-day authority to fast-track any bill at the last minute, through Saturday.
Story Continued Below
“It’s only a matter of time now,” Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), the House’s chief deputy whip, declared after the House’s arch-conservative Freedom Caucus endorsed the measure.
Yet even as the backing of the conservative group provided an undeniable burst of momentum to Trump and the GOP leadership, a band of moderate House Republicans remained deeply skeptical. Insiders say the changes to the bill have hardened the positions of some moderate and traditional Republican opponents of the bill. And even if the House passes the bill, the Senate remains an enormous hurdle.
But moderates present the most immediate threat to the White House’s sudden progress. Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), who backed an earlier version of the proposal, said he’s now undecided. Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), who opposed the initial version, said she needs “basic information” about the conservative-backed changes before she takes a position.
And Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), co-chair of the moderate, 50-member Tuesday Group, said he hasn’t detected any reversals among the opponents of the health care bill — in fact, he said, their ranks may grow.
“The question now is how many people does it take from yes to no,” he said.
Others Tuesday Group members, including Reps. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) and John Katko (R-N.Y.), wouldn’t comment on the measure, an amendment to the Affordable Care Act.
That resistance could threaten the White House’s desire for a quick vote on the new plan. It also tempered the exuberance of some backers of the House health care plan, known as the American Health Care Act, after the Freedom Caucus endorsement.
The group of three dozen conservatives said in an early Wednesday statement that an agreement negotiated by caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) and centrist Tuesday Group co-Chairman Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.) assuaged their previous concerns about the bill. The White House has been pressing Republicans to broker a compromise.
“While the revised version still does not fully repeal Obamacare, we are prepared to support it to keep our promise to the American people to lower healthcare costs,” the statement said. “We look forward to working with our Senate colleagues to improve the bill.”
Asked whether his proposal would get the bill across the finish line, MacArthur said the primary goal had to be ensuring the bill’s previous supporters remained in the fold.
“I think we now need to make sure we hold the people that were ‘yes’ before,” he said. “And if we do, I’m cautiously optimistic we can get this done.”
Though he is a Tuesday Group co-chairman, MacArthur said he didn’t consider that role to be the driver behind his effort. “I don’t think about one caucus or another,” he said.
The new health care language allows states to opt out of central Obamacare protections for consumers — as long as the states offer an alternative proposal that lowers premiums, increases the ranks of insured people or stokes greater competition among health insurance companies. States would also be required to set up “risk pools” that help provide coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
The plan would prohibit insurers from charging women higher premiums than men and retains Obamacare’s guarantee of “access” to coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. But it would also allow states to waive Obamacare’s prohibition on charging sick people higher premiums if they have a gap in coverage. States could also pull back from Obamacare’s set of minimum insurance benefits.
Centrists are wary of supporting any measure that could be construed as stepping away from a pledge to protect constituents with pre-existing conditions. Dent said he was surprised that an amendment negotiated by MacArthur — a Tuesday Group leader — would include the kind of policy changes that ultimately won the support of the Freedom Caucus. He described it as “face-saving and blame-shifting” by conservatives who were blamed for the failure of earlier versions of the AHCA.
As top conservative groups and lawmakers declared their support for the revised measure, however, a new problem arose that could slow progress. A provision in the proposal appeared to exempt members of Congress and their aides from weakened regulations that states would be allowed to adopt.
Democrats seized on the language, arguing that Republicans were trying to shield themselves from their own legislation. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee even planned a rapid-fire digital ad campaign highlighting the provision as Republicans were grappling with the details.
“It should be no surprise that TrumpCare has gotten so terrible that Republicans have resorted to exempting themselves and their families from the pain it inflicts,” said Drew Hammill, spokesman for House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi. “Speaker Ryan and congressional Republicans promised that Americans with pre-existing conditions would be protected, but it turns out they were only talking about themselves.”
Multiple GOP lawmakers and staff members acknowledged that the language could create an appearance problem. But they all expressed confidence that the matter would be resolved, either through another bill or by changing the text.
Still, several Freedom Caucus members who suggested they might support the bill after the White House gave conservatives additional concessions said they want to see the issue fixed first.
“There is a thing that’s missing, which is the congressional component, which makes sure that Congress isn’t exempt,” said Freedom Caucus member Scott Perry (R-Pa.), when asked whether he plans to back the bill.
Another caucus member, Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio), said the caucus discussed the problem at a meeting Wednesday morning. While he supports the new repeal framework, Davidson said, “I want to make sure Congress doesn’t get special treatment.”
The proposal unveiled late Tuesday by Meadows and MacArthur — cheered on by the Trump administration and, especially, Vice President Mike Pence — has been billed as the compromise that could corral skittish Republicans reluctant to support earlier versions of the proposal. And on Wednesday, before the Freedom Caucus took an official position, several conservatives who had withheld their support from earlier proposals indicated they were ready to sign on.
“If the amendment goes in, I’m for it,” said Rep. Jim Jordan, vice chair of the Freedom Caucus, who noted that the bill is not a “full repeal of Obamacare.”
Conservative advocacy groups that once knocked the GOP health care plan as an insufficient repeal of Obamacare began lining up behind the new plan.
“While we’re still short of full repeal, this latest agreement would give states the chance to opt out of some of Obamacare’s costliest regulations, opening the way to greater choice and lower insurance premiums,” Club for Growth President David McIntire said in a statement. FreedomWorks, another conservative group, also endorsed the revised proposal.
The revised plan was unveiled as the House was also juggling an imminent government shutdown deadline and the outline of a tax plan that Trump released Wednesday afternoon.
As moderates and conservatives huddled to figure out who would vote for the deal, GOP leaders set to work figuring out how to fix the member exemption matter.
Several GOP sources indicated that the inclusion of exempting language was a technical requirement because of the Senate’s rules. Any change to Congress’ health care would fall outside the jurisdiction of the Senate’s health committee. That technicality would require a different set of procedures in the Senate and prevent the legislation from passing with a bare 51-vote majority, instead subjecting it to a 60-vote requirement that would be insurmountable without Democratic support.
Katie Jennings contributed to this report.
If the White House manages to resuscitate its flat-lining effort to replace Obamacare, President Donald Trump may owe it to a moderate New Jersey Republican and multimillionaire who only reluctantly backed his candidacy for president.
Rep. Tom MacArthur has singlehandedly kept the embers of the failed repeal-and-replace effort burning, huddling with the hard-line conservative Freedom Caucus to try to forge a deal. The negotiations have allowed the White House and GOP congressional leaders to insist that despite their embarrassing failure to pass health care legislation last month, they're still making progress.
Story Continued Below
But the MacArthur-as-Republican health care savior narrative has bothered some GOP moderates, who say the New Jersey lawmaker is flying solo in negotiations with the Freedom Caucus. Though he's one of three co-chairs of the Tuesday Group — a 50-member bloc of House Republican moderates — MacArthur has negotiated without the group's blessing in his quest to keep the health care talks alive, other Tuesday Group members say.
And many others say they’ve seen no details about the compromises the second-term lawmaker is offering or whether he’s getting enough concessions from conservatives.
Some in the group “are pretty hot about this thing right now,” said a Tuesday Group member. “MacArthur is kind of on his own.”
MacArthur acknowledged as much in an interview with The Hill, suggesting his effort to find compromise was not on behalf of the Tuesday Group.
As a result, it's not clear that any deal MacArthur strikes can actually deliver the votes of moderates that President Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan need to get their legislation, dubbed the American Health Care Act, across the finish line. That's a dangerous dynamic that could sink the revived health care discussion just as Freedom Caucus members are warming to the bill.
So far, House moderates have remained quiet about reports of progress between MacArthur and the Freedom Caucus, chaired by North Carolina Rep. Mark Meadows. The two were seen huddling daily in the back of the House chamber before lawmakers departed for their two-week Easter recess. But other Tuesday Group members have been wary of working with the Freedom Caucus, which came under fire from Trump and mainstream Republicans last month for rejecting the first iteration of the GOP health care plan.
At the time, Rep. Chris Collins, a Tuesday Group member and Trump ally, accused the Freedom Caucus of proposing negotiations simply to deflect blame for scuttling the first bill.
“The Tuesday Group will never meet with the Freedom Caucus. Capital N-E-V-E-R,” Collins said in late March.
As reports of a deal surfaced during the recess, moderates remained silent. Even MacArthur's Tuesday Group co-chairs — Reps. Charlie Dent and Elise Stefanik of New York — said they weren’t yet sold on the negotiations.
Dent suggested the talks seemed aimed mostly at securing a win for Trump, or at least showing progress, ahead of his 100th day in office.
Stefanik told constituents she had yet to see legislative language and would reserve judgment until she could read the details. "I believe my constituents deserve a representative who knows what that final bill is," Stefanik told a hometown crowd on Monday, according to the Albany Times Union.
Indeed, it's unclear whether MacArthur's efforts have moved any moderates closer to "yes" on the stalled health care bill. POLITICO reached out to the offices of more than two dozen moderate Republicans who had either signaled their opposition to the AHCA or hadn’t yet taken a position. Though many declined to respond, none said they had been swayed by the negotiations.
"The amendment doesn't address the things that I had concerns about — the things I think are detrimental to the people I represent," said Rep. Dan Donovan, a centrist, who added that he learned about the proposal when details leaked to the press Friday.
Other New Jersey Republicans, including moderates like Leonard Lance and Frank LoBiondo, say they don't have much insight into changes to the health care legislation that MacArthur is negotiating.
“I ran in support of a plan that lowers premiums, increases access and lowers health care costs across the board,” Lance said in a statement to POLITICO on Tuesday. “Until I see a Congressional Budget Office score that says the revised bill achieves those goals I remain a 'no' vote.”
LoBiondo tweeted Friday that he hadn’t seen the draft text of the amendment, but was "still a NO" because it didn’t address his “serious concerns.”
The highest ranking Republican in the New Jersey delegation, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, who serves as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, hasn’t signaled his views of the amendment yet. But the MacArthur-negotiated changes leave intact the AHCA’s rollback of Medicaid expansion, which Frelinghuysen said he would oppose.
At the heart of the negotiations is a trade-off. Conservatives are seeking a proposal that would let states opt out of Obamacare's regulatory framework, including provisions intended to keep costs down for people with pre-existing conditions. In exchange, MacArthur negotiated to reinstate Obamacare's minimum coverage requirements and to require that any state choosing to opt out of the Obamacare regulations must set up a high-risk pool intended to help cover sick patients whose premiums might surge.
Freedom Caucus sources indicated these changes could win over at least some of their holdouts, putting the AHCA tantalizingly close to passage. House leaders are hopeful they can nudge just enough moderates to back the bill to send it to the Senate. With no Democrats expected to support the bill, Republicans must secure support from 216 members of the 238-member caucus to pass it.
Since talks collapsed last month, House leaders and President Donald Trump have indicated they were heartened by continued negotiations among lawmakers. Vice President Mike Pence and White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney continued shuttling to and from Capitol Hill in search of votes. Then, as Trump's 100-day mark in office approached, the White House began indicated it expected a vote on an amended health care package as soon as this week.
The Meadows-MacArthur talks were at the heart of it.
For MacArthur, the impromptu talks aren't just risky for the Republican agenda, they could imperil his own political future. He represents one of a few dozen swing districts. Though his district narrowly voted for Trump in November, it backed Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. MacArthur's role in salvaging a health care plan that energized protesters on the left and drew poor marks across the political spectrum has only enhanced the target on his back for Democrats.
MacArthur's efforts have also put him on the president’s radar. Trump personally thanked MacArthur, a former insurance executive, the day before leaders pulled the legislation for lack of support.
But during the presidential campaign, MacArthur, 56, kept his distance from Trump, endorsing the GOP standard-bearer after his primary rivals quit the race. MacArthur survived his reelection campaign despite relentless efforts by Democrats to tie him to Trump.
In recent weeks, conservative and liberal activists squeezed MacArthur with attack ads in his district for his role in AHCA talks. But the conservative Club for Growth may help provide him some cover.
"We applaud the fact that Rep. MacArthur has negotiated with Rep. Meadows," said the group's spokesman, Doug Sachtleben.
MacArthur himself shrugs off the politics of his role.
“I am not thinking about this in political terms,” MacArthur said when asked whether his position made him vulnerable to a primary or general election challenge at a news conference earlier this month. “I am simply not going to evaluate the right thing to do based on whether people want to run ads against me.”
Adam Cancryn contributed to this report.
The White House, top House conservatives and a key moderate Republican have finalized a new Obamacare repeal and replace plan they hope will break a month-long logjam on a key priority for President Donald Trump.
But it is far from clear that the fragile agreement will provide Speaker Paul Ryan the 216 votes needed for the House to pass the stalled legislation.Optimism is growing among Republican officials on the Hill and in the White House. Leadership will likely need at least 15 to 20 new House Freedom Caucus votes to have any shot at passing the bill.
Story Continued Below
The million-dollar question: Can Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows, who helped author the changes, deliver the votes needed to get the bill over the finish line? The North Carolina Republican is said to support the amendment, sources say, but it's still unclear how many of his group will flip from "no" to "yes."
There are positive signs, even though the Freedom Caucus appears to have made a conscious decision to say little until discussing the matter at a Wednesday evening meeting.
Reps. Dave Brat (R-Va.) and Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), both of whom opposed prior versions, indicated they will back the legislation once the new provisions are added to allow states to opt out of some Affordable Care Act consumer protections. While DesJarlais is a huge Trump supporter and was visibly torn about opposing the bill last time around, Brat's change of tone is more notable given his reputation as a care-free leadership antagonist who has zero problem opposing GOP leadership or Trump.
The changes come after more than two weeks of behind-the-scene work between Vice President Mike Pence, Meadows and Tuesday Group co-chairman Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), a moderate who was already supportive of the bill.
Most of the Freedom Caucus opposed the Obamacare repeal bill that Ryan pulled from the House floor last month because it did not repeal Obamacare regulations, calling the proposal “Obamacare lite.” Afterward, Trump and numerous House Republicans blamed the group for stalling a major GOP priority; Trump even threatened to primary some of the group members and turned his Twitter followers on their leaders.
Privately, however, the White House started courting them and the deep-pocketed outside groups that also opposed the legislation and are close with the Freedom Caucus. Those organizations, including Heritage Action, Club for Growth and several run by the Koch brothers, signaled to the White House they wanted a deal.
The new agreement gives the Freedom Caucus some additional concessions, including waivers that allow states to opt out of major Obamacare regulations touching on essential health benefits and when insurance companies can charge higher premiums.
It is unclear if the entire Freedom Caucus will take an official position, which would require support from 80 percent of its members. Some Freedom Caucus members, including Reps. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) and Justin Amash (R-Mich.) told reporters they’re considering the changes. Freedom Caucus Vice Chairman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) declined to tell reporters Tuesday evening whether he supports the bill, running away from reporters and shouting over his shoulder: "We’ve got a meeting tomorrow!"
Brat is likely to support the bill if the legislative language matches the policy that’s been discussed. “The Pence compromise [is] very promising, a lot of people like it,” he said.
Should 20 additional Freedom Caucus members sign onto the agreement, GOP leaders — who have stayed back in the latest negotiations — will then turn to moderates to try to lock in the needed votes.
While MacArthur helped negotiate the plan, many centrist Republicans are wary of the agreement and not happy that the White House pushed the plan further right. They are concerned that it will leave people with pre-existing conditions out to dry, as states could opt out of a regulation baring insurance companies from charging sick people higher premiums.
Supporters of the plan, which is also expected to include House GOP leadership, argue that the deal requires any states that opt-out of such regulations to create risk pools that will pay much of the higher premiums sicker people may face. Some worry, however, they won’t be funded enough to cover everyone who needs help.
The centrist Tuesday Group is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss the changes, though already several prominent group members, including co-chair Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), have panned the changes.
Officials at the White House and on Capitol Hill are unsure how many moderates, many of whom have already declared themselves as "no,” will back the legislation, but they have begun making calls. So far, no moderate “no” votes have publicly changed their position to “yes."
White House officials are striking an optimistic tone about the legislation, even suggesting the House could vote on the measure as soon as this week — perhaps crossing their fingers for a last-minute victory to mark Trump's 100-day in office on Saturday. House GOP leaders have downplayed the possibility.
The GOP’s new proposal would allow states to opt out of many of Obamacare’s requirements, allowing health plans to charge people more based on their age and health status. States could also opt out of enforcing a 30 percent surcharge imposed on people who don’t maintain insurance coverage, which was part of the original GOP proposal, according to a brief update sent to Energy and Commerce members. That’s the policy that the Republicans would use to replace the Obamacare individual mandate.
In exchange, states would have to set up a high-risk pool where older, sicker people could buy coverage, likely at much higher prices.
The waivers would strongly encourage people to maintain continuous coverage — even more than prior versions of the Republican repeal bill. In states that get a waiver, people who don’t stay insured could be charged more for insurance policies based on their health status.
In order to obtain the waiver, states would have to show that they would reduce premiums, increase health insurance enrollment in the state, stabilize the market for health insurance coverage, stabilize premiums for individuals with pre-existing conditions or increase the choice of plans in the state.
The amendment also includes what it calls “default approval” for waivers — a key ask from some conservatives. That means states’ waiver applications would automatically be approved, and the onus would be on the Health and Human Services secretary to reject their applications in 60 days if the administration doesn’t believe the state has fulfilled its obligations.
Moderate Republicans were hoping the hurdle to secure a waiver would be high.
The changes includes language specifically barring insurance companies from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions. “Nothing in this act shall be construed as permitting health insurance issuers to limit access to health coverage for individuals with preexisting conditions,” it reads.
But centrists worry that will effectively happen if insurance companies can charge sicker individuals more.
Kyle Cheney contributed to this report.
Donald Trump is set to steamroll Paul Ryan on tax reform, the issue the speaker has devoted his political career to achieving.
But don’t expect Ryan to relinquish his pet cause easily.
Story Continued Below
The White House on Wednesday will drop the outlines of a tax plan that insiders expect will contradict the blueprint Ryan has been working on for more than a year. It won’t include the House speaker’s controversial new tax on imports, which was expected to bring in $1 trillion to finance lower tax rates. And top Trump officials are insisting their tax plan need not be paid for, rejecting Ryan’s stance that any package should not add to the deficit.
The administration’s sudden change of course came as a surprise to the speaker’s office, which didn’t get a heads-up before Trump announced on the fly last week that he would drop a tax plan Wednesday. Ryan had been working with the administration on a tax proposal “hand in glove,” as he put it, and the administration seemed content to let him take the lead.
But after Ryan failed to get his Obamacare replacement bill over the finish line last month, the White House changed its mind. Trump decided the administration needed to take a more hands-on role in tax reform rather than leaving the details to the speaker, three administration sources told Politico. Indeed, Ryan’s team has been kept largely in the dark on some key details of the plan, congressional and White House sources say.
“We made a mistake last time” in having Ryan take the lead on health care, one senior administration official told Politico. “We learned our lesson.”
Still, the White House strategy could backfire, namely because it’s far from certain that it can pass.
If the administration were to pursue a tax cut that’s not paid for — sticking instead with the supply-side theory that tax cuts pay for themselves — it would take at least eight Democrats to get it through the Senate. That’s a tall order, because Democrats generally are loath to pass tax cuts for corporations, especially without corresponding cuts for individuals.
Trump’s plan would drastically lower the corporate rate from 35 percent to 15 percent — at an eye-popping price tag of $2 trillion.
“The best chance to have tax reform is through reconciliation,” said a senior House Republican, referring to GOP leadership’s plan to use a fast-track tool to pass the bill on simple-majority votes.
Ryan’s office stressed that talks are ongoing and nothing is decided.
“We all agree on the benefits of tax reform and the place we want to land, and the question is how you reach that place,” Ryan’s spokeswoman, AshLee Strong, said in a statement. “We continue to have productive discussions with the administration about all ideas on the table.”
To be sure, only the House — not the White House — has the power to write a tax bill. In that regard, Trump can’t force the hands of Ryan or Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who’s been writing the tax plan with the speaker.
It’s unlikely that Ryan and House leaders would completely step aside for the White House. Ryan’s expertise on tax reform carries significant weight with members, and even Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has said he, like Ryan, believes a tax overhaul should be done through reconciliation, not on a bipartisan basis.
But should Ryan forge ahead with his own proposal, without White House blessing, he would almost certainly find himself lacking votes to pass his tax bill. It would also likely further undermine his relationship with Trump, who badly wants a legislative win after the troubles with health care reform.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn were expected to huddle Tuesday evening with Ryan, Brady, McConnell and Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) to talk about tax reform. But even before the meeting, reports circulated suggesting Trump told staff he is serious about wanting to lower corporate rates to 15 percent, a promise he made on the campaign trail. (Ryan’s plan would reduce the rate to 20 percent because that’s the lowest level he could realistically pay for.)
Other top White House advisers have also hinted in TV interviews in recent days that tax cuts need not be paid for, an idea the White House has discussed since January.
Administration sources also confirmed to Politico that Ryan’s controversial so-called “border adjustment” idea is unlikely to be included in the White House plan. Under that idea, companies that import products would have to pay income tax on the value of those products, which they don’t have to do now. And companies that export would no longer have to pay income tax on their earnings from those exports.
Senate Republicans and several White House advisers have panned the idea, and several members of Ways and Means have expressed skepticism about the proposal. But few have offered alternatives to generate the estimated $1 trillion it would produce. A senior administration official said the White House is looking at “three or four” possible revenue replacements.
It’s unclear whether Ryan and Brady will continue to push the border adjustment idea. Also unknown is whether they’ll move forward with their strategy to use reconciliation to pass a tax overhaul plan along party lines.
Under the Senate’s complex reconciliation rules, legislation that’s fast-tracked must not add to the deficit in the long term, which is defined as anything beyond a 10-year window. That’s why Ryan and his team are so focused on making sure any proposal is paid for.
The White House, however, is not yet sold. It is considering courting Democrats and trying to clear the 60-vote threshold to invoke cloture. One administration official said it would be wise to seek bipartisan buy-in after “what happened in the health care fight” — watching a GOP-only bill fall victim to party infighting.
There’s another possibility being tossed around: a temporary tax cut that is not paid for but could still be approved under reconciliation rules because it would not add to the deficit in the long term. President George W. Bush sidestepped reconciliation rules using that loophole, passing major tax cuts that expired after a decade.
Lawmakers later voted to extend most of those tax cuts.
But GOP leaders say going that route would not constitute true comprehensive tax reform because the tax cut would end after 10 years unless Congress intervened. They argue that it would not provide the kind of lasting assurance to the business community needed to produce long-term investments and economic growth.
Leaders are also not certain a temporary tax cut would be scored as deficit neutral, even if it were to sunset in 10 years. A letter Tuesday to Ryan from the Joint Committee on Taxation, obtained by Politico, suggests the cost of a mere three-year corporate tax cut to 20 percent — from 2018 through 2020 — would spill over into the second decade window, thus barring the bill from being fast-tracked.
“We project a non-negligible revenue loss in the tax years immediately following the budget window,” the letter states.
A disagreement between House Democratic leaders over Obamacare subsidies spilled into the open Tuesday, threatening to undermine their negotiating position as they hash out a deal with Republicans to fund the government.
Democratic negotiators, led by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), are demanding the final funding bill include language to provide permanent Obamacare subsidies to help cover costs for low-income enrollees and keep insurance markets afloat.
Story Continued Below
But House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.), No. 2 behind Pelosi, publicly dismissed that idea Tuesday, saying the fix would be nice to have in the funding bill but should not be a requirement for supporting the legislation and should not be used as a political bargaining chip.
“From my perspective, this is not a part of our negotiations… I’m not urging my side to have this as part of the negotiations,” Hoyer told reporters. “The president has the authority to go ahead and do it and he ought to do it.”
In a statement later Tuesday, he emphasized that “millions of Americans will be adversely impacted” if the subsidies are cut off, and that they should not be "a quid pro quo that Republicans are giving to us to get funding for a border wall or other partisan priorities.”
Lawmakers are trying to hash out a funding deal before government spending lapses Friday at midnight.
President Donald Trump’s administration can continue funding the Obamacare subsidies without congressional action. But Trump had threatened to yank the subsidies in recent weeks — potentially sending the insurance market into chaos — as a way to bring Democrats to the negotiating table on health care.
In response, Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) demanded the funding bill include a permanent fix for the subsidies, a move that if successful would defuse Trump’s threat and offer insurers long-term assurance that they’ll continue to be paid.
Schumer did not say that the subsidies need to be included in the funding bill when asked directly about it on Tuesday afternoon. But a senior Democratic aide insisted Pelosi, Schumer and other Democratic negotiators are still in lock-step on this push.
While Hoyer is a member of Democratic leadership, he is not directly part of the funding bill negotiations.
But he’s not alone in his stance on the issue. A handful of other Democratic lawmakers and staffers privately said they are irked by Pelosi and Schumer’s public insistence on including a fix they say lawmakers shouldn’t be negotiating at all.
Republicans, they argue, also have an incentive to keep the subsidies flowing to avert a crisis. By making it a Democratic priority in the funding bill, Democrats may have to give concessions on an issue that Republicans probably would have addressed either way, critics of the strategy say.
And if the fix isn’t permanent but something more temporary, Democrats may have to give concessions in future negotiations to ensure the subsidies remain, they argue.
Republicans sued the Obama administration last year over the subsidy payments, arguing they were unconstitutional. The GOP won an initial ruling in the courts, but the decision was put on hold pending an Obama administration appeal, ensuring the subsidies kept flowing. The Trump administration must decide next month what to do with the lawsuit.
Hoyer’s comments put on display a Democratic dispute that has been simmering behind the scenes during the funding talks.
Democrats, including Hoyer, are in agreement that a permanent funding for the subsidies would be an ideal addition to the funding bill. But how far to take the fight, and at what cost, is the issue.
“Cost-sharing subsidies are the law. I do not recommend to my members that we make this part of any deal with the administration,” Hoyer said, his voice rising. “We’re not dealing on this. This is the law.”
Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Sen. Mark Warner has a simple message for critics who say his Russia probe is in shambles: It just isn’t so.
The top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee said in an interview Tuesday that he always wants to move faster in investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. But real progress is taking place, he said, including scrutiny of ties between Moscow and President Donald Trump’s aides.
Story Continued Below
“People who think we’re not looking at that now have not received an update,” Warner told Politico.
The Virginia Democrat rejected criticism over the fact that the panel has yet to issue subpoenas or interview high-profile witnesses like former Trump advisers Roger Stone, Carter Page and Michael Flynn. It would be “very irresponsible,” he said, to bring in those witnesses “before you have all your information.”
Warner added that the panel has conducted 27 interviews with intelligence analysts involved in the U.S. determination that Russia sought to tilt the presidential election toward Trump. The committee is also hiring two more staffers for the investigation, bringing the total to nine.
Warner’s remarks come as Democratic senators on the Intelligence Committee grow increasingly dissatisfied with the pace of the investigation, which is being led by Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Warner.
“The last few weeks, things have moved very, very slowly under Chairman Burr’s leadership. And I’m a little troubled about it,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) told reporters Tuesday. “I give Sen. Warner some time and credence to try and work those things out. But things have moved too slowly for my taste and a lot of the members of the committee’s taste.”
The dissatisfaction among committee Democrats was first reported last month by POLITICO and returned to the forefront this week with new revelations in The Daily Beast and Yahoo, which said that the probe had made "little progress” and is “increasingly stymied by partisan divisions.”
Burr rejected the notion that the investigation is in trouble, telling reporters Tuesday that narrative was being pushed by “one person” who is “unhappy.” He noted that his panel’s investigation into the 2012 Benghazi attacks had just three staffers and completed its work in a year.
“We’re accomplishing exactly what we intended to do. You need to go talk to other members other than the one that’s hawking that story,” Burr said, without naming his critic.
But more than one Democratic senator is unhappy with the pace of the probe, though several said they felt reports about it being in turmoil are overblown.
“I’d like to see it go faster, but I always would like to see things go faster,” said Sen. Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with Democrats. “I do think it would be helpful to have someone with prosecutorial experience and investigative experience.”
The seven intelligence staffers handling the investigation, King said, “are professional staff people who have worked on other kinds of projects, but I don’t think we have anyone who specifically has a background in prosecution and investigation.”
Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) said he is “concerned that it’s not moving along fast enough.”
“I think it is making progress, but I think there need to be more resources, more staffing to be able to get someplace in a reasonable time frame,” Heinrich told reporters.
The Democrat who’s been most vocal about his concerns is Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, who said Tuesday he’s “been clear for some time with the bipartisan leadership of the committee that we’ve got to pick up the pace.”
“We’ve got to pick up the pace because people are getting most of their information now from leaks and false tweets and from the story of the day,” Wyden said. “I’ve made it clear we’ve got to use open hearings, we’ve got to use our subpoena power.”
A congressional aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said it was the usual practice of the Intelligence Committee to first try to get witnesses to testify willingly, before issuing subpoenas.
Burr echoed that sentiment on Tuesday.
“In many cases in investigations like this you get one shot at people — usually their story doesn’t change after that,” he said. “Until this point, anybody who has at least been associated in some way, shape or form through news articles has either walked in the door and volunteered to testify or has publicly said they’d love to testify, so I don’t see the need for any type of subpoena process.”
Burr reiterated that the panel would eventually like to interview Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser who has come under scrutiny for his lobbying on behalf of Turkey and a paid speech he gave in Moscow. Burr said the committee would not provide him criminal immunity for his testimony.
Part of the problem for Democrats is the nature of the Intelligence Committee itself. The secretive panel is set up to perform oversight of U.S. intelligence agencies, not to conduct wide-ranging investigations into alleged criminal acts.
A number of Democrats and a few Republicans have called for a more independent investigation run by a select committee or outside commission.
The FBI is also investigating the issue.
Warner has pushed back on creating an independent probe, saying it would take months just to get such a panel staffed up with investigators with the needed security clearances.
He also noted that he and Burr had negotiated a deal with the intelligence agencies to get access to the types of raw intelligence that congressional intelligence committees have not been able to view in the past.
“We’re making progress,” Warner said.
Rod Rosenstein was confirmed as the second-ranking official at the Justice Department on Tuesday, giving him the reins of the federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election after Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ recusal last month.
The Senate backed the veteran federal prosecutor as the nation’s deputy attorney general with a 94-6 vote. The chief complaint among the small group of Democrats who opposed Rosenstein was his reluctance to promise to appoint an independent prosecutor to lead the Russia probe.
Story Continued Below
“He is, in some senses, what we value in the Department of Justice: someone committed to the rule of law,” said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), the most vocal critic of Rosenstein’s nomination. “That’s why I have been surprised and disappointed that he has failed to heed my request.”
Though the duties of the deputy attorney general are broad, Rosenstein was catapulted into the spotlight after Sessions — a top ally of President Donald Trump — stepped aside from any federal probe of Trump’s campaign. Sessions had not disclosed previous communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak despite testifying that he “did not have communications with the Russians” during his confirmation hearing in January.
The Russia controversy engulfed Rosenstein’s confirmation hearing in March. The deputy attorney general nominee testified that he knew of no reason that would ethically force him to step aside from leading the federal investigation into Russian meddling last year.
“I’m not aware of any requirement for me to recuse at this time,” Rosenstein told the committee.
Most Senate Democrats appeared satisfied with Rosenstein’s comments during the hearing, as well as his private assurances to senators, that he would appoint a special prosecutor if it’s warranted. In a floor speech earlier this week, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) stressed that Rosenstein had made that commitment to him personally.
“He had developed a reputation for integrity,” Schumer said. “He has promised to give this issue careful consideration. I believe if he studies the department regulations, he will come to the same conclusion many of us have: that a special counsel is merited.”
Last month, FBI director James Comey publicly confirmed the existence of a federal probe into Russian intervention in the presidential election, as well as potential communications between members of Trump’s campaign team and Russian officials.
The chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee called on top Trump administration officials Tuesday to “revive law enforcement efforts unwisely abandoned by the Obama administration” targeting Iran’s nuclear, ballistic missile and weapons programs, in response to a POLITICO investigation about how U.S. counterproliferation efforts may have been undermined in the effort to secure a nuclear deal and prisoner swap with Tehran.
Rep. Edward R. Royce made the request in a letter to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, citing POLITICO’s findings that the Obama-led State and Justice departments delayed and at times derailed key investigations and prosecutions into global Iranian trafficking networks during those prolonged negotiations.
Story Continued Below
Royce said he was particularly concerned about details in the POLITICO report about how Obama administration “Justice and State Department officials denied or delayed requests from prosecutors and agents to lure some key Iranian fugitives to friendly countries so that they could be arrested.”
“Needless to say, the Obama Administration appears to have done serious damage to our national security,” wrote Royce (R-Calif.) and Rep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.), who co-signed the letter. “To better understand the impact of the prior Administration’s interference in law enforcement investigations, and to ascertain whether there was excessive denial or non-processing of extradition requests and lure memos, we respectfully request that your agencies brief the Committee on law enforcement investigations delayed by the previous Administration.”
“Iran’s continued belligerence toward the U.S. and our allies is a vital national security threat that demands constant vigilance,” the two wrote, urging Sessions and Tillerson to make the request a top priority within the Trump administration’s broader review of the Iran Deal and U.S. policy toward Tehran that was announced last week.
Officials at the Justice Department had no immediate comment, but the State Department did offer a response.
“We have received the letter, and will respond to Chairman Royce and Ranking Member [Eliot] Engel. Generally speaking, we remain committed to prosecuting, regardless of citizenship, those who violate our export control laws and the U.S. trade embargo on Iran,” a State Department official said.
Obama announced the two agreements with Iran in a Sunday morning address to the nation from the White House, on Jan. 17, 2016, saying he was granting clemency to seven Iranian-born prisoners or criminal defendants who “were not charged with terrorism or any violent offenses.”
In fact, the Obama administration dropped charges and international arrests for another 14 Iranian fugitives, too, sparking outrage among federal law enforcement investigators and prosecutors who believed the men posed a far greater threat to national security than the White House was publicly acknowledging.
Some of those agents, from the FBI and departments of Homeland Security and Commerce, had spent years, if not decades, working to penetrate the global proliferation networks that allowed Iranian arms traders both to obtain crucial materials for Tehran’s illicit nuclear and ballistic missile programs and, in some cases, to provide dangerous materials to other countries.
Justice Department prosecutors did, too, as part of a National Counterproliferation Initiative launched in 2007, but most if not all of the officials working on the matters were not informed that their cases were being used as bargaining chips in the prisoner swap and broader nuclear negotiations with Iran, POLITICO reported.
A senior committee staffer told POLITICO that Royce and other committee members had heard rumors about counterproliferation efforts being undermined in the long run-up to the implementation of the Iran Deal and prisoner swap, and for months afterward. But he said they were unable to substantiate them, even after holding a hearing in February to review how the Iran Deal was working.
“We were trying to get to the bottom of it and were not able to, until we saw the [POLITICO] story,” the senior staffer said. “It’s fair to say that we didn’t know the full extent of what happened until we saw the report.”
The House committee became aware of some elements of the POLITICO story in the form of written testimony from physicist and former weapons inspector David Albright, founder of the Institute for Science and International Security, which he provided in advance of the February hearing.
A frequent Justice Department witness on Iranian trafficking cases, Albright wrote that “out of a misplaced fear of negatively affecting the deal, the Obama administration … interfered in U.S. law enforcement efforts.”
“During the negotiations and for some time afterwards, the administration blocked or did not process several extradition requests and lure memos aimed at arresting and convicting Iranians and their agents engaged in breaking U.S. export and sanctions laws,” Albright told the committee. “These actions, largely concentrated in the State Department, reportedly interfered with investigations and served to discourage new or on-going federal investigations of commodity trafficking involving Iran. “
Albright's testimony tracked similar statements he made to POLITICO that were included in its report.
In their letter, Royce and Mast also asked the Trump administration’s top law enforcement and diplomacy officials to “evaluate the feasibility of re-opening any cases that were wrongly hindered.”
“This, along with an administration-wide policy directive to encourage investigations of Iranian commodity trafficking efforts that includes a determined extradition process, should be an important part of a reinvigorated U.S. policy to address Iranian threats,” they wrote. “We stand ready to support the Administration’s efforts to more aggressively investigate, indict, and extradite those involved in supplying Iran’s nuclear, missile, or conventional weapons programs in defiance of U.S. law.”
Georgia Democrat Jon Ossoff, a 30-year-old political novice, fell just short of a shocking victory in a House race that captured the attention of the political world as a referendum on President Donald Trump.
The results left Democrats hoping for an upset deflated at the ballot box once again, but Ossoff will get another crack at the district in a June runoff, when relieved Republicans are looking forward to a one-on-one race between Republican Karen Handel and the upstart Democrat.
Story Continued Below
Ossoff had 48 percent of the vote when The Associated Press declared that he would miss the 50 percent threshold for victory and instead qualify for a one-on-one runoff in June. The AP also declared that Handel, Georgia’s former secretary of state, qualified for the runoff with a second-place finish. Handel took 20 percent of the vote in the race for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, left open by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who had held the seat since 2004 without a serious challenge. Handel received nearly twice as many votes as the next-highest candidate, fellow Republican Bob Gray.
The finish will disappoint Democrats, who hoped Ossoff would capture the district Tuesday behind a wave of party enthusiasm for the opportunity to send a message to Trump in the special election. They have to settle for another shot in two months. This time, though, district voters will face a binary choice between Ossoff and a Republican opponent instead of an 18-candidate primary, which allowed Ossoff — one of the best-funded House candidates ever, raising over $8.3 million thanks to hundreds of thousands of small donations from Democrats around the country — to rise far above a splintered field.
“We will be ready to fight on and win in June if it is necessary,” Ossoff told his supporters Tuesday night before the race was called. “And there is no amount of dark money, super PAC, negative advertising that can overcome real grass-roots energy like this. So bring it on.”
Handel called for Republican unity as she claimed victory.
"Tomorrow we start the campaign anew,” she said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “Beating Ossoff and holding this seat is something that rises above any one person."
And both parties quickly sought to spin the inconclusive results as a major win for their side — as well as a statement on Trump’s popularity and the national political mood. Ossoff hailed the night as a “victory for the ages,” while Trump weighed in on Twitter to call the result a “big ‘R’ win.”
Republicans believe that once their party base coalesces behind a single candidate, they will be able to beat Ossoff. Gray, one of Handel’s toughest GOP opponents, was quick to line up behind her Tuesday night.
“We are going to rally behind Karen Handel,” tweeted Gray, who was backed by the Club For Growth, which aired TV ads attacking Handel. “We wish her Godspeed.”
“In a one-on-one race over a nine-week period," Ossoff will "have to answer questions he didn’t have to answer in the primary, like any issue on policy, on Syria, on tax reform. That becomes a lot harder for him,” said Chip Lake, a Republican consultant in the state. “When there’s 18 people in a race, it’s a bar brawl, and no one knows what to look at. But when it’s one-on-one, it’s easier for voters to understand and easier to define it.”
Already, Ossoff has faced millions of dollars in attacks from Republican outside groups, which sounded the alarm that he was a threat to win the district last month after he began advertising heavily on TV. Three weeks ago, the National Republican Congressional Committee started spending $2.2 million on ads, casting Ossoff as “too liberal” for the district and a “rubber-stamp” for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Congressional Leadership Fund, the major GOP super PAC focused on House races, also switched its message from early ads mocking Ossoff for dressing up as Han Solo in college. The later ads attacked Ossoff on his résumé, saying he inflated his credentials as a national security staffer for Rep. Hank Johnson.
The attacks held Ossoff back in a district Trump carried by less than 2 percentage points in the 2016 presidential race. Trump's margin, a sharp departure from Republicans’ usual double-digit wins, signaled an opening to Democrats looking for silver linings after Hillary Clinton’s devastating loss. Ossoff became a vessel for Democratic backlash against the president, raising millions from donors around the country who saw the special election as an opportunity to hurt Trump politically.
A nationalized race could continue to benefit Ossoff, said former GOP Rep. David Jolly, who said he saw parallels between the current situation in Georgia and the special election he won in Florida in 2014.
“For my race, it was Obamacare. It was a clearly nationalized race about Obamacare. For Ossoff, it will be the first 100 days of Donald Trump,” Jolly said. “The Republican in the runoff will have to struggle to figure out, is it my job to defend Trump, who has a historic unpopularity right now, or is it not? But Ossoff gets to talk nonstop about how the last 100 days are bad.”
It could also spell trouble for Republicans in 2018, as Trump continues to struggle with well-educated, suburban voters, a “trend line” the GOP should “be very worried” about, said Ian Russell, former deputy executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
“While folks would’ve loved to win this, it’s absurd that it’s even talked about as a possibility and it shows how far Republicans have fallen that they’re panicking that a 30-year-old staffer didn’t win it outright,” Russell said. “This is not about one House seat; this is a trend. The kind of voters Republicans have alienated because of Trump’s behavior and the Republican Congress — that is a huge problem for them in suburban districts.”
Trump took a personal interest in the special election, tweeting attacks about Ossoff several times in the closing days of the race, saying he would be “weak on crime” and “raise taxes.” In an effort to boost GOP turnout, Trump also recorded a robocall urging voters to prevent Democrats from “[taking] your Republican congressional seat away from you.”
“Don’t let them do it,” he added.
As the final results trickled in early Wednesday morning, Trump took to Twitter once more.
“Despite major outside money, FAKE media support & eleven Republican candidates, BIG ‘R’ win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!” Trump tweeted.
Though no one denies Senate Democrats are in for a rough 2018 midterm election, a host of their vulnerable incumbents just posted some eye-popping fundraising numbers — a sign the party won’t easily cede more ground to Republicans next year.
Of the 10 Senate Democrats up for reelection in states Donald Trump won last fall, six brought in at least $2 million in the first quarter of 2017. Most Democrats far outpaced fundraising compared with the two Senate Republicans being targeted by Democrats next year: Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona, both of whom raised $1.4 million during the first three months of the year.
Story Continued Below
And on average, Senate Democrats in competitive races outraised GOP incumbents at the same point in the 2016 election cycle.
Democrats are heavy underdogs to win back the Senate because they have to defend 25 seats versus just nine that Republicans are trying to keep in their column. But the Democratic senators’ blockbuster first-quarter numbers — buoyed by liberal grass-roots opposition to Trump — are giving them an early shot of momentum heading into the midterms. Strategists also hope the numbers will scare off potential GOP challengers at a time when Republicans are struggling to recruit candidates.
Republicans say it’s too soon to sweat the Democratic incumbents’ fundraising. Though the first midterm election of a new presidency is typically a referendum on the commander in chief and favors the party out of power in the White House, no one knows how Trump will be perceived 18 months from now. It’s also noteworthy that the Republican Senate campaign arm outraised its Democratic counterpart.
Still, Democrats are cautiously optimistic that they can, at least, stanch additional hemorrhaging in the Senate — after a 2016 election in which the party was widely expected to win control of the chamber.
“I think we’re seeing a lot of evidence for a check-and-balance electorate,” said J.B. Poersch of Senate Majority PAC, the main super PAC for Senate Democrats. “These senators have worked hard to be well-defined and well-liked in their states. Despite a challenging map, these incumbents have a strong chance at reelection in 2018.”
Here are POLITICO’s five takeaways from first-quarter Senate fundraising figures:
Senate Democrats’ boffo quarter
With a $2.8 million haul, Sen. Claire McCaskill shattered fundraising records in Missouri, raising more than any other senator or Senate hopeful in her state during the first quarter of an off year. So did Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, whose $1.6 million sum was the best first-quarter figure for a Senate candidate in that state in a nonelection year.
Two other Senate Democrats in ruby-red states also had strong quarters: Jon Tester in Montana raised more than $2 million and Joe Donnelly brought in $1.3 million in Indiana.
Some Democratic strategists credit a revved-up liberal base — motivated to fight Trump at every turn and pressuring senators to do the same — for the spike, though others downplayed Trump’s influence on fundraising.
“I don’t think it has a whole lot to do with Trump,” said Justin Barasky, campaign manager for Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown’s reelection bid. “I think it has to do with the depth of support that Sherrod has throughout the state. People in Ohio and elsewhere know what Sherrod is up against.”
In other states where Democrats are defending Senate seats, Brown raised $2.4 million; Bill Nelson of Florida $2.2 million; Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin $2.2 million; Bob Casey of Pennsylvania $2.7 million; and Debbie Stabenow of Michigan nearly $1.3 million.
The one exception to the Democrats’ massive fundraising haul this quarter was Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), who raised just under $553,000. Still, Manchin, whose state Trump won by more than 40 points, has nearly $2.2 million in the bank.
GOP challengers? Not so much
Potential Republican challengers collected middling amounts by comparison. Indiana Rep. Luke Messer, who is considering a challenge to Donnelly, raised just over $700,000. Rep. Todd Rokita, another potential Donnelly opponent, raised a mere $320,000. By comparison, Sen. Todd Young raised $1 million in the quarter following GOP Sen. Dan Coats’ retirement announcement in March 2015.
Missouri Rep. Ann Wagner, who has a reputation as a prolific fundraiser dating back to her days as a Republican National Committee co-chair and state party chair, raised $800,000 for a potential bid against McCaskill. (Wagner was also working in a finance position for the National Republican Congressional Committee, which set fundraising records with a $36 million haul over the first three months of the year.) North Dakota Rep. Kevin Cramer, talked about as a potential Heitkamp challenger, raised $322,000.
Still, the National Republican Senatorial Committee’s $16 million first-quarter haul should relieve worried Republicans. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, which consistently outraised the NRSC last cycle, raised just under $14 million.
And in Ohio, two Republicans posted impressive totals. State treasurer and 2012 candidate Josh Mandel raised $1.2 million, while Rep. Pat Tiberi, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, banked almost $1.4 million. But some of that cash is almost certainly destined for a contested primary.
Senate Republicans at this point in 2015
Two years ago, the Senate map was essentially a mirror image of the 2018 cycle: A host of GOP senators were up in blue and purple states, while Democrats had few seats to defend.
While six Democratic senators raised more than $2 million in the first quarter of 2017, just three GOP senators had banked at least that amount at this point two years ago: Rob Portman of Ohio, Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania and John McCain of Arizona, all prolific fundraisers. No other Republican incumbents in key 2016 races had raised more than $1.4 million during the first quarter of 2015.
But two years ago, a handful of Republicans had war chests that far outpaced the cash-on-hand totals of Democrats this year. For instance, Portman already had $8 million at this point in 2015, while Toomey had reported nearly $7.3 million cash on hand. This year, in those two states, Brown has a $5 million war chest, while Casey is reporting $3.8 million cash on hand.
McCaskill’s $2.8 million haul is nearly triple that of Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), who raised just under $1.1 million during the first quarter of 2015. But both reported similar cash on hand totals after the first three months of the cycle: $3 million.
Boost in small-dollar donations
In Ohio, Brown’s average contribution was $38. About 85 percent of Tester’s donations were $100 or less. And McCaskill’s campaign boasted that it had more than 5,500 new Missouri donors, while the average donation was $59.
Democrats are particularly ebullient about the smaller contributions, since that means donors are far from being maxed out and can keep donating as the midterms get closer. And they believe the controversies coming out of the Trump White House will give them no shortage of fundraising opportunities.
“Our base is motivated and the small-dollar donations are the latest sign that they are engaged early headed into 2018,” DSCC communications director Lauren Passalacqua said.
The uptick in online donations isn’t unique to Democrats; the NRSC has also gotten a boost in online fundraising. But Democrats have a built-in advantage with ActBlue, the online fundraising portal for Democratic candidates, that gives donors one clearinghouse for online contributions. There’s no ActBlue equivalent for Republicans.
“They know how to fund us, but we don’t have the same system where there’s just one website,” one GOP official said. “We just don’t have it.”
Big 2018 numbers for potential 2020-ers
Two Democratic senators in seemingly safe blue seats — Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Chris Murphy of Connecticut — posted massive numbers in the first quarter, with Warren pulling in $5.2 million and Murphy banking $3 million. Warren and Murphy are considered potential 2020 presidential contenders but first need to win reelection.
Warren and Murphy may not need their cash to keep their seats, but both could build chits by spreading the wealth. Senators can give an unlimited amount to the DSCC, and Murphy has already said he will use some campaign funds to build up anti-Trump groups in his home state.
Former Democratic vice presidential nominee and Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine raised $2.9 million. Kaine represents a blue-trending swing state that’s further down the NRSC’s target list.
Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar, who is occasionally mentioned as a presidential nominee, raised $1.5 million. Another potential 2020 candidate up for reelection in 2018, New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, raised $4.4 million in the first three months of 2017.
Alabama’s new governor, Kay Ivey, on Tuesday announced dates later this year for a special election for the Senate seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and now occupied by Republican Luther Strange.
Ivey's proclamation sets the primary for Aug. 15 and a runoff for Sept. 26. The general election will be on Dec. 12, almost a year ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. Sessions' term expires in 2020. Former Gov. Robert Bentley, who resigned on April 10, appointed Strange, then the state attorney general, to the seat on Feb. 9.
Story Continued Below
“This is not a hastily-made decision. I consulted legal counsel, the finance director, Speaker [Mac] McCutcheon, Senate President Del Marsh, and both budget chairmen since the cost to the General Fund could be great," Ivey said in a statement. "However, following the law trumps the expense of a special election."
Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren slammed President Donald Trump on Tuesday for refusing to release his tax returns, but she declined to say whether she is considering running against him in 2020.
In an appearance on NBC’s “Today” show to promote her book “This Fight Is Our Fight,” Warren dodged questions from hosts Savannah Guthrie and Matt Lauer about whether she is weighing a presidential run as pockets of support around the country for her possible candidacy continue to emerge.
Story Continued Below
“Senator, a lot of people are saying what this book is about is launching the presidential campaign of Elizabeth Warren,” Guthrie asked. “Now, it's tradition to be coy about that in Washington. But where is your mind about that? Are you 50/50? 80/20? Where do you stand? Are you likely to run?"
“No. This is not what I'm doing,” Warren said. “This is my 11th book. My life's work is about what's happening to working families across this country."
When Warren was pushed on whether she meant she is not likely to run for president, the senator answered, “I am running — in 2018, for senator from Massachusetts.”
“I am deeply blessed that the people of the commonwealth of Massachusetts sent me to Washington to fight for them, and that's what I'll keep on doing,” Warren added, smiling but silent as Lauer and Guthrie pushed a little more.
Anticipation of Warren’s possible 2020 presidential bid is again swirling after Senate Republicans invoked an obscure rule to silence the Massachusetts Democrat while she opposed the confirmation of now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions on the Senate floor. Warren supporters have repurposed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s explanation for invoking the rule — “She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted” — as a slogan.
Warren on Tuesday said Trump had tapped into the anger and frustration that people feel in the country, but she said he would only make life worse for most Americans by putting “a bunch of billionaires and bankers in charge.” She criticized him for not releasing his tax returns but said she does not know whether he will release them.
“The issue is not over. He promised during the campaign that he would release his taxes,” Warren said. “People are going to keep demanding [the returns], and they’re going to keep demanding it and making their voices heard on this.”
But she said she would consider working with Trump on issues like breaking up big banks and protecting consumers.
“This isn’t about Donald Trump,” Warren said. “This is about the people of America. I’m ready to fight for them.”
TOLEDO, Ohio — Sherrod Brown sat down to talk trade at a union hall this week, in the city that makes the Jeep he drives, wearing a suit stitched 10 miles from his Cleveland house, and looked right at home.
But one reminder of the pressure he faces stood right outside the door: a tracker from the conservative PAC America Rising, who follows the Ohio Democrat “every place I go” as he runs for a third Senate term in what may be one of the most competitive 2018 contests. Another reminder of his challenge came in remarks by the union official introducing him to a dozen or so United Auto Workers members.
Story Continued Below
“When I think of the name Sherrod Brown, I think about fair trade. … And it’s nice to finally have a president who’s saying the same thing,” Bruce Baumhower said, in a nod to the pitch that won Donald Trump Ohio by 8 percentage points en route to the White House.
“Whether he does the same thing," Baumhower added, "we’ll find out."
Brown is also waiting to see if Trump will make good on campaign promises to toughen up trade enforcement and renegotiate NAFTA. Ohio’s only statewide elected Democrat who boasts his own penchant for populism, Brown will have to capture some Trump voters if he wants to win reelection. His easiest path to victory may be working with the president on trade as well as infrastructure, two issues where — at least rhetorically — they align.
To that end, Brown is building relationships with a Trump administration that most fellow Democrats have turned on, and with the kind of steps a restive liberal base might view as treachery by another member of their party.
Just eight days after Hillary Clinton’s loss sent Democrats into a tailspin, Brown wrote to Trump offering to partner on trade and got one of the president’s famous hand-written replies scrawled at the top.
During a two-month stretch when Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) had no personal contact with Trump, Brown talked to the president in a bid to stop the closure of a 3M plant that put 150 Ohio jobs at risk.
Brown also talked infrastructure with top White House economic adviser Gary Cohn this month and joined Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) in introducing Trump nominee Robert Lighthizer at his confirmation hearing to become U.S. trade representative. Brown calls Lighthizer, who shares the same Ohio hometown as Brown’s wife, “maybe the best pick in the whole administration.”
That doesn’t mean Brown is turning into a Trump cheerleader. The 64-year-old liberal stalwart also reminded the autoworkers that many other Trump nominees want to overturn Obama-era policies designed to protect their lives and livelihoods.
“The people he’s appointing to the Cabinet and sub-Cabinet are people whose life’s goal is what they call a ‘deregulatory, pro-growth agenda’,” Brown told the union members. “But it really is a rollback of protections for workers.”
It’s a fine line to walk, staying open to dealing with Trump on some fronts while sharply opposing the White House agenda on most others. But Brown sees his task simply: keep pushing for the same beliefs he’s had since his first election to the House in 1992.
“I’ll work with him when he’s right for Ohio, and I’ll oppose him when he’s wrong for Ohio,” Brown told POLITICO after his union meeting. “It’s pretty clear what I think on these issues.”
Brown's alignment with a few of Trump’s goals marks a stark contrast from the last time he faced voters with an unpopular Republican president in office. Brown strenuously opposed President George W. Bush’s agenda on his way to toppling then-Sen. Mike DeWine (R-Ohio) in 2006, the year that Schumer helped take back the Senate as the Democrats’ campaign chief.
The Bush years remain a source of encouragement for Brown. Asked how he can stay motivated given the yawning gap between his goals and the White House’s, Brown recalled Democrats' victory in halting Bush's bid to privatize Social Security as well as the escalating public opposition to the Iraq War.
Meanwhile, his resolute liberalism in a swing state, epitomized by the canary lapel pin he wears to represent government support for coal miners and other workers, has helped Brown reach across the aisle while staying a darling of the left.
For example, while Sen. Elizabeth Warren took so much flak from progressives for backing Ben Carson's bid for secretary of housing and urban development that she switched her vote, Brown stayed in the yes camp for Carson. He's supported nine other top Trump nominees this year — more than double the number of yes votes cast by other Senate Democratic stars such as Bernie Sanders and Cory Booker.
Brown said he hasn’t faced significant blowback from the left for diverging from party orthodoxy at times.
“I got some people mad at me because I voted for Carson,” Brown said. “But I voted for Carson because Carson knows one thing about housing — and that is, there’s too much lead in too many homes and it affects kids’ brain development.”
Brown is expected to face Ohio state Treasurer Josh Mandel next year, a rematch of their 2012 contest that Brown won by 6 percentage points. As Mandel racks up support from conservative groups, making a competitive primary less likely, the 39-year-old Republican's campaign is already hitting Brown hard for being too liberal for a state where Trump won 80 of 88 counties in November.
“It took Sherrod Brown all of 11 minutes to come out against [Supreme Court Justice] Neil Gorsuch and he votes in lockstep with Elizabeth Warren 97% of the time,” Axiom Strategies vice president Ethan Zorfas, whose firm is advising Mandel’s campaign, wrote in an email.
"Brown led the charge to elect Hillary Clinton in Ohio and called Trump’s movement ‘a counterfeit campaign’," added Zorfas, who also works under former Ted Cruz’s presidential strategist Jeff Roe. "As Senator Brown moves into desperation mode, he will go back into the old Washington playbook of saying anything to get reelected."
Trump won an estimated one-third of the votes of UAW members, at least partly on the strength of his vow to reopen NAFTA and negotiate a better deal for manufacturers in the industrial Midwest that have hemorrhaged jobs in recent years. Winning a third term will require Brown to remind those same working-class voters — many of whom shunned Clinton — about all he's done for them. His warm welcome at the union hall this week suggests he has a real opening.
"I’m not arguing that Trump didn’t get a lot of working-class voters that I’m going to get in '18, or got in '12, or maybe a few Obama got," Brown said. "But I think it’s overstated, particularly from industrial unions, how Trump did."
Brown, whose campaign recently announced a $2.4 million first quarter fundraising haul, is likely to get significant help from the labor movement he's championed throughout his career. (Mandel's campaign has yet to release its fundraising figures.)
“Sherrod Brown has always put the economic well-being of Ohio first,” Tim Burga, president of the state's AFL-CIO chapter, said through a spokesman. “He has worked on these issues for decades, no matter which party was in control of the White House, because he puts what is right for Ohio jobs ahead of party politics.”
Winning next year also may require Brown to play up his ability to work with Trump and Senate Republicans, providing an incentive for him to keep the door open to bipartisan cooperation on trade and infrastructure.
But as he prepared to shift from the union hall to a meeting with anti-hunger advocates, Brown may have unintentionally revealed how hard it will be to find common ground with Trump.
"I hold hope that on some things, like infrastructure, maybe he’ll do it right," Brown said, before admitting that so far, "There’s no sign of doing it right on infrastructure."
Trump's campaign-trail plan for infrastructure was crafted by two of the administration officials Brown has praised: Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and White House trade adviser Peter Navarro. But Democrats, including Brown, have uniformly panned the plan because it aims to spur investment through tax credits, as opposed to providing direct spending.
"They’re talking about Wall Street kinds of financing," Brown told reporters. "Is it just giving incentives for things like pipelines or the electric grid that private-sector companies are going to build anyway?"
Sen. Joe Manchin, one of a cadre of Senate Democrats up for reelection in conservative states next fall, raked in roughly $552,600 in the first three months of 2017, according to figures provided by his campaign to POLITICO.
The West Virginia Democrat will report $2.17 million cash on hand, according to the senator’s campaign. His first-quarter total falls short of that of other Democratic senators up for reelection next year, who have posted blockbuster fundraising sums for the first three months of 2017.
Story Continued Below
Still, Manchin will be helped by the fact that he is far from an unknown entity in West Virginia, a relatively inexpensive state in which to campaign that Donald Trump won by more than 40 points last November. Manchin, a former governor, is vying for his second full term in the Senate.
Rep. Evan Jenkins, one of Manchin's possible Republican opponents, raised $367,000 in the first quarter and has $1.035 million cash on hand. West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, who is also considering running in the GOP primary against Manchin, has not released numbers on his war chest.
Other red-state Senate Democrats on the ballot next year have posted formidable fundraising numbers for the first three months of 2017. Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota raised $1.6 million during the first quarter and has $2 million cash on hand. Sen. Jon Tester of Montana brought in $2 million in the first three months and will report $3.16 million cash on hand.
In Missouri, Sen. Claire McCaskill raised $2.8 million and has more than $3 million cash on hand while Indiana Sen. Joe Donnelly raised $1.3 million in the first quarter of this year and has $2.5 million cash on hand.
Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who is often described as one of the Republican Party’s younger stars, this week denied having presidential ambitions.
“Everyone thinks that I'm ambitious, and everybody thinks I'm trying to run for something, and everybody thinks I want more,” Haley told CNN in an interview published Thursday night. “I can’t imagine running for the White House.”
Story Continued Below
Haley, the former governor of South Carolina, also denied being interested in becoming secretary of state or a senator. Her name is often raised in Republican circles as a potential future contender for the White House or other high-profile roles in government.
In her first weeks as U.N. ambassador, Haley has been outspoken in criticizing American adversaries such as Russia and condemning the recent chemical attack in Syria. President Donald Trump’s secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has been notably less visible.
Haley attributed this dynamic to differences in their “personalities.”
"He's very much an executive. He's thoughtful in his approach and how he moves forward,” she said, describing Tillerson. “I'm one that's not afraid to say anything. You know, I'm not easily intimidated and so I can go out and say things. So I think we actually complement each other very well.”
Haley said Trump has given her a “lot of leeway to just say what I think and interpret what he thinks” but said she “would never go rogue” against the president’s wishes.
Montana Democratic Sen. Jon Tester raised $2 million in the first three months of 2017 — the first quarter of a campaign in which he is a top target of national Republicans — according to figures provided by his campaign to POLITICO.
The second-term senator entered the second quarter with $3.2 million on hand, continuing the trend of Senate Democratic incumbents piling up large cash hauls to start the President Donald Trump era.
Story Continued Below
Much of that money has come in small increments as grass-roots Democrats contribute in far larger-than-usual numbers: 85 percent of Tester’s contributions were of $100 or less.
Tester’s 2018 race is widely expected to be one of the most competitive in the country because Trump won Montana by 21 points in November, forcing the senator to walk a tightrope in courting voters. He is one of five Senate Democrats facing reelection next year in states that Trump won by double digits last year.
It is not yet clear which Republican will face Tester in the general election, though state Sen. Albert Olszewski recently said he would run, and state Attorney General Tim Fox has been courted for a bid, as well.
Ryan Zinke had been considered a strong potential candidate, but the former congressman instead took a role as Trump's secretary of the interior earlier this year.
Still, Montana does have a recent history of electing Democrats: in addition to Tester, Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock is in his second term.
SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. — Republicans are white-knuckling their way through their party’s first major political tests under the Trump administration.
After the surprising close call in Kansas on Tuesday night, Republicans are now obsessing over a House special election in a slice of suburban Atlanta that has never been competitive before, where the GOP has spent millions to keep Democrats from capturing the district in an upset next week.
Story Continued Below
It’s no sure bet for Republicans. An angry, energized Democratic base looking to send a message to Donald Trump has turned Jon Ossoff, a previously unknown former congressional aide, into one of the best-funded House candidates ever ahead of an all-party primary next Tuesday.
The money — more than $8.3 million in the first three months of 2017 — has allowed Ossoff to blanket the airwaves with TV ads and carpet the streets of the district with door-knockers turning out friendly voters, trying to win the district outright with a majority in the special primary. Meanwhile, a bevy of Republican candidates have fought among themselves.
To add to those jangling nerves, Georgia Republicans watched their colleagues in Kansas survive a 20-point swing toward Democrats in another special election Tuesday night. Kansas state Treasurer Ron Estes won his 4th Congressional District race by less than 7 percentage points in a district Trump carried by 27 points in November.
Republicans don’t have that kind of room in Georgia: While past presidential nominees and state candidates have typically won Georgia’s 6th District by wide margins, Trump carried it by less than 2 points against Hillary Clinton.
“I’d be an idiot if those results in Kansas didn’t cause me and Republicans concern” in Georgia, said Justin Tomczak, a Republican political adviser and activist in the state. “It’s a wake-up call.”
But unlike their counterparts in Kansas, Republicans in Georgia sounded the alarm several weeks ago, prompting $2 million in spending from the National Republican Congressional Committee to help boost Republican turnout and counter Democrats’ energy. The Congressional Leadership Fund, the super PAC aligned with House leadership, also dumped in more than $2 million of its own money and dispatched on-the-ground staffers to the district.
Looming over everything is Trump. While the Washington-based outside groups are trying to stop Ossoff, local Republican campaigns are wondering how pro-Trump they need to be to win GOP voters at the moment. And Democrats are testing just how far backlash to the president can carry them. “Does it give a candidate superpowers?” asked Todd Rehm, a Republican consultant in the state.
Trump is central to Ossoff’s chances — but the Democrat doesn’t actually invoke him often. His focus, Ossoff said, is on local economic development and running a positive campaign.
“The contrast with what’s happening in Washington is clear, it’s not necessary to invoke it at every campaign stop,” Ossoff said.
That’s because the Trump factor already looms large, especially among approximately 3,500 volunteers working for Ossoff to turn out like-minded voters.
“I think there are a lot of people who are disappointed with the president,” said Elaine Bradley, a 65-year-old woman who rallied with other volunteers outside Dunwoody Library during early voting this week. “Trump’s the reason I’m here.”
Georgia’s special election rules are unusual: All candidates run in the same primary regardless of party. If no one reaches a majority, the top two finishers will meet head-to-head in a June runoff. But Ossoff is aiming to win outright on April 18 by getting at least 50 percent. To do so, he’ll need to dramatically boost turnout among Democrats, young people and women in this affluent, well-educated suburb. He’ll also need to cut into Independents.
And in an off-year, mid-spring special election, turnout is a wild card. Ossoff’s campaign, anchored by four field offices, said it has knocked on over 100,000 doors and made more than 100,000 phone calls. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee also sent down nine staffers to aid field efforts.
The top four Republican candidates — former Secretary of State Karen Handel, former state Sen. Dan Moody, Johns Creek City Councilman Bob Gray and state Sen. Judson Hill — have collectively knocked on a combined 80,000 doors and counting, according to totals shared with POLITICO.
Still, some Republicans believe the natural conservative lean of the district will show through by Tuesday.
“By Democrats pumping in money here, they’ve awakened the sleeping giant that is the Republican base in the district,” said Jason Shepherd, chairman of the Cobb County Republican Party. “There are not enough Democrats here to win, unless the Republican base doesn’t turn out, but now the base knows that they need to turn out.”
Others remain concerned.
“If [Ossoff] is spending half of that $8 million on turnout, then that might be the ballgame. It’s going to be close, but jeez, if we lose that ...” said one Republican operative who’s worked on the race. “You can’t just have an air war and have TV ads, you have to have a ground war and that will swing the race. If you can swing 3 points in a nonspecial general with ground game, you can swing it 15 points in a special election.”
Republican candidates, meanwhile, are battling among themselves with help from outside groups that were big spenders in GOP primary wars of past years.
The anti-tax Club for Growth, which endorsed Gray, has spent nearly $500,000 targeting Handel — a well-known former statewide officeholder — and Moody, a big-spending self-funder who has gained traction in recent weeks.
Meanwhile, Ending Spending, a group founded by the megadonor Ricketts family, is answering the Club’s attacks in a $1.3 million ad campaign boosting Handel. And Hill, who has trailed in some public polling but whose constituents make up a good chunk of the congressional district, put out his own ad this week that attacked all three of his top opponents.
“The more and more that this thing goes negative, the more it depresses Republican turnout,” said Jim Kingston, a Republican operative and son of former Rep. Jack Kingston. “And this is going to come down to who turns out their voters.”
Republicans on the ground, including the candidates, insist that Democrats are “living in fantasy land” if they think they’re going to flip a district that once put former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and current Sen. Johnny Isakson on the national stage, said Moody.
But that hasn’t slowed the enthusiasm of Ossoff’s army of canvassers, who are busily seeking out potential supporters like Adrienne LoRay, an African-American woman who lives in Chamblee, a dogwood-lined suburb north of Atlanta.
“Oh, good! You’re finally here,” LoRay shouted as she met Ossoff canvassers at her door on Saturday afternoon.
“I’ve never put a sign out before,” LoRay said, adding that she doesn’t affiliate with either party and likes to vote for candidates from both sides. “But I’ve been trying to get a yard sign for two weeks.”
LoRay took two signs for her corner yard and sent a picture to her family, reminding them to vote.
Orrin Hatch is raising money like he’s running for reelection.
The Republican senator from Utah, who just turned 83 and is the GOP's most senior senator, raised about $1.5 million in the first three months of the year, according to fundraising figures provided to POLITICO. That leaves Hatch with roughly $3.5 million on hand about a year-and-a-half before the 2018 election, a significant amount for a safe GOP seat.
Story Continued Below
Hatch's haul is a show of force, and comes as other ambitious Utah politicians eye his seat, which he has now held for seven terms. Capitol Hill Republicans believe both former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman are interested in running if Hatch retires, and Hatch has said if he leaves he'd like to bequeath the seat to Romney.
But over the past week Hatch, who is now chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has been increasingly vocal about sticking around for another six years. He told the Deseret News that he doubts Romney will run and that he’s “just trying to make sure this state is taken care of no matter what happens.”
"I've said that I'm going to run again," Hatch told the newspaper on Monday. "It's two years away. Who knows what could happen in two years.”
On Monday, Hatch told Salt Lake City’s CBS affiliate that he might decide not to run “if my wife gets sick, or I get sick, or something like that.”
The spring of a nonelection year is often when lawmakers decide whether to retire or run again. In Hatch's case, even if he were to retire, it would make no sense to do so now and become a lame duck. Congress is gearing up to take a run at tax reform, which will run through his committee.
The seat is a prize for Republicans given how red Utah is. Romney has spoken to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) about the seat, but McConnell said last week that he will support Hatch if he runs again. Utah's other Senate seat is held by Mike Lee, who defeated longtime GOP Sen. Bob Bennett in 2010.
Elena Schneider contributed to this report.
Money is flooding into Democrat Jon Ossoff’s campaign. The national party has started running focus groups on his behalf. Thousands of volunteers have flocked to his team to help him win his April special election for a vacant Atlanta-area congressional seat.
The race for Georgia’s 6th District has suddenly become a focal point, viewed as a chance to send Donald Trump a message by channeling the party’s grass-roots rage, energy and frustration into a single contest. But party leaders are growing increasingly frustrated by the nationalization of this race and another in Montana — and worried about unrealistic expectations in Republican-friendly seats where the Democrats are at a decided disadvantage.
Story Continued Below
Just a few high-profile losses in races framed as referendums on the Trump agenda, Democrats fear, and the currently heightened level of engagement and hope might fall off the cliff.
“I would caution heavily against resting the entire future of a party on the outcome of a special election,” warned Rebecca DeHart, the Georgia Democratic Party’s executive director.
“You can make two mistakes with special elections. One is to over-read and assume that because you won or lost, that is a predictor of the midterms. The flip side is that you can under-read,” said strategist Jesse Ferguson, a former top official at the House Democrats’ campaign wing.
The polarizing nature of the presidential election and the early months of the Trump administration are already amplifying the noise surrounding not just the Georgia special election but a handful of congressional special elections slated in coming months. The national press, and activists and officials in both parties, are looking for clues to understand Trump’s newly refashioned political landscape — in places like Montana, where there’s a contest to replace Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke; in South Carolina, where Budget Director Mick Mulvaney’s former seat is vacant; in Kansas, where CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s seat is open; and in California, where there’s a crowded contest to succeed Xavier Becerra, now the state’s attorney general.
Nowhere is grass-roots Democratic optimism more acute than in Georgia, where Ossoff, a 30-year-old documentary filmmaker, is vying to capture the suburban Atlanta seat left vacant by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price. The state is trending toward battleground status, and Trump won the district in question by a single percentage point.
Ossoff has raised millions of dollars online from angry activists, and he spent Thursday night at a fundraiser hosted for him by party bigwigs like Reps. Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, James Clyburn and John Lewis at Democratic National Committee headquarters.
A Pelosi-signed fundraising email for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee claimed on Thursday that the energy surrounding the race has Republicans “terrified.”
But local and national Democrats alike see risk in raising expectations too high. Trump may have underperformed there in November, but Price typically won the seat by landslide margins. At best, Ossoff is a long shot — and local party officials fear even a narrow Ossoff loss could create the impression that Georgia is still too red to warrant attention from the national party.
“Special elections are indicators, not prognosticators. They are testing grounds, but not conclusive proof-points, [so] it can be a mistake to read into a special election as giving the party a perfect road map for where to invest in the future. But at the same time, ignoring the consequences of these testing grounds comes at your peril," said Ferguson.
The Georgia race will feature an April primary with candidates of all parties, and assuming none reaches 50 percent, there will be a June runoff that’s widely expected to pit Ossoff against a Republican who will likely be the favorite.
“If Jon Ossoff is the future of the Democratic Party, the future is very bright for Republicans. Jon Ossoff has a better chance of being cast as Han Solo in the next 'Star Wars' movie than becoming a member of Congress,” said Corry Bliss, executive director of the American Action Network and Congressional Leadership Fund, groups tied to GOP House leadership — which has run anti-Ossoff ads. He was alluding to clips that have circulated of Ossoff dressed as that character in college.
Not all of the special elections are viewed as Trump-era barometers. The South Carolina and Kansas seats are expected to remain in GOP hands, while the Los Angeles-area seat is almost certain to remain in Democratic control. But along with the Georgia contest, the May special election for Montana’s at-large House seat is being watched closely, and some Democrats see it as a promising — if slightly more difficult — pick-up opportunity.
In its endorsement of Rob Quist, the Democratic nominee, the popular liberal website Daily Kos described the race as "the perfect test, then, of a populist outsider versus an out-of-touch one-percenter.”
But the conventional wisdom in Montana is that in order to win statewide, a Democrat needs exceedingly high name recognition. That doesn’t describe Quist, a musician who is running against Greg Gianforte, a businessman who waged an unsuccessful challenge against Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock in 2016.
“There are some people on the national level who are saying this is the referendum of what’ll happen with Trump, because our state went for Trump. But the reality is it’s local. Our state is unique: We elected Steve Bullock and Trump by a wide margin,” said Jim Larson, chairman of the state Democratic Party.
Bullock himself warned against attempts to nationalize the race.
“We haven’t really seen what this election is going to look like,” he said. “It’s hard to say it’s going to be one thing or another until it starts to be a little more defined.”
Montana GOP chairman Jeff Essmann, a local legislator and former state Senate president, said he’s skeptical about Democratic chances in a state where Trump won easily.
“If they want a laboratory for that, they need to do it in a state where Trump didn’t win by 20 percent, like Montana,” said Essmann. “He’s very popular, his policies are, and I think this race is going to simply come down to a race between one experienced candidate who will support the Trump agenda and one who will oppose it."
Even local Democrats are hesitant to use their race as a potential piece of evidence regarding Trump’s standing among voters.
“For Democrats and Republicans to [look at the results and] say, ‘Oh, America hates Trump,’ or ‘America loves Trump’? Well, both of that is true,” said Larson. “Can there be lessons learned on elections that we win? Well, what worked in Delaware isn’t necessarily going to work in Montana."
Donald Trump suffered an astonishing rebuke Monday from his own FBI director, James Comey, during a marathon five-hour hearing before the House Intelligence Committee.
Comey knocked down Trump’s wiretapping allegations. He confirmed the existence of an investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. He even debunked a tweet that the White House sent out mid-hearing.
Story Continued Below
The FBI director’s testimony left the White House reeling, with Democrats demanding an apology from Trump and Republicans seeking to change the subject — to leaks rather than the substance of those leaks.
Here are POLITICO’s takeaways from an explosive hearing:
Comey is no Trump lackey
The FBI director brought an enormous amount of baggage into the hearing. Many Democrats are still seething over his decision to speak out publicly during the presidential campaign on the FBI’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails.
But Comey, who has a reputation for fierce independence, made clear on Monday he is also more than willing to buck Trump. He shot down Trump’s claim this month that former President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower, saying he has “no information that supports those tweets.” Comey added that there’s “no individual” who can unilaterally order a wiretap — not even a president.
The FBI director also revealed that the bureau launched an investigation in July into Russia’s efforts to interfere in the election, including possible collusion with Trump aides.
His testimony was devastating for Trump and the White House, which was left to try and find a silver lining. “The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process,” the White House said, mid-hearing, from the president’s official Twitter feed.
But Comey debunked that, too. Asked about the president’s mid-hearing tweet, Comey said that while the FBI saw no efforts by Russia to change actual votes, it was not “our intention” to suggest Russia’s actions had no influence at all. “We've offered no opinion, have no view, have no information on potential impact because that's not something we've looked at,” Comey said.
As president, Trump’s words matter
During his political ascendancy, Trump made a habit of slinging insults at his rivals, often without evidence and sometimes based on conspiracy theories.
Being president hasn't stopped Trump from making evidence-free claims. The difference now, of course, is that his words carry extraordinary weight — and for the first time he’s being held accountable for them.
Since Trump made his wiretapping claim, the White House has wobbled from doubling down to seeking to recast the claim as a broad reference to all possible surveillance of Trump aides, not specifically an Obama-ordered wiretap of Trump’s office phones.
The rest of the federal government isn’t waiting for the White House to get its story straight. Comey did not mince words as he made clear the FBI and the Justice Department could not back up the president. And that’s not for lack of trying.
“We have looked carefully inside the FBI” in an attempt to find evidence, Comey added, and there wasn’t any.
Trump also took heat Monday over the White House’s claim that British intelligence spied on the Trump campaign at the behest of Obama.
“I have seen nothing on the NSA side that we engaged in any such activity nor that anyone ever asked us to engage in such activity,” said NSA Director Mike Rogers, who testified alongside Comey.
Rogers said the U.S-U.K relationship is “strong enough” to withstand the White House’s charge, but it “clearly frustrates a key ally of ours.”
Republicans are more interested in leaks than what’s being leaked
Nearly all of the Republicans on the committee appeared to be more interested in discussing leaks of classified information to reporters than potential ties between Trump's team and the Kremlin.
"Whether Russia attempted to influence our democratic process is incredibly important," said Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) while questioning Comey. "Some of that may rise to the level of a crime. Some of it does not rise to the level of a crime. One thing you and I agree on is the felonious dissemination of classified material most definitely is a crime."
Comey had several tense exchanges with GOP members over recent press reports that cite anonymous intelligence community officials. They pointed in particular to former national security adviser Michael Flynn, whose pre-inauguration contacts with Russia were leaked to the news media, leading to his resignation when it was revealed he had misled colleagues about the conversations. Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) has said getting to the bottom of that leak is a focus of his committee’s larger Russia investigation.
At one point Gowdy pointedly asked Comey to confirm that sharing classified information was illegal.
“It's a serious crime,” Comey replied. “I'm not going to comment on those particular articles because I don't want to in any circumstance compound a criminal act by confirming that it was classified information. But in general, yes, it's a serious crime, and it should be for the reasons you said.”
Democrats smell blood
Democrats on the Intelligence panel clearly believe they have the beginnings of scandal that could hobble, if not take down, the Trump presidency. And they used Monday’s rare public intelligence hearing to air an array of arguments meant to raise suspicion about Trump’s ties to Moscow.
It began with Rep. Adam Schiff’s unusual 15-minute opening statement, in which he walked through the contacts that Trump campaign figures and associates had with Moscow businesses and officials. Other Democrats highlighted changes to the GOP’s 2016 platform they said benefited Russia and Flynn’s undisclosed communications with a top Russian diplomat. And they suggested that the president’s past financial dealings indicate the commander-in-chief has something to hide.
Some of them leaned heavily on the 35-page “dossier” published in January that includes salacious — but unsubstantiated — allegations of collusion against Trump and his campaign aides.
“If the Trump campaign, or anybody associated with it, aided or abetted the Russians, it would not only be a serious crime, it would also represent one of the most shocking betrayals of our democracy in history,” Schiff said.
After the hearing, the California Democrat demanded that Trump apologize both to Obama for his wiretapping allegation and to the American people, “for leading us down this wild goose chase.”
The investigation could take a while
Lawmakers and the public are clamoring for answers to some of the biggest questions to ever hang over a U.S. president: To what extent was Russia involved in helping elect him, and were he or his aides in the know?
Several members of the House Intelligence Committee, including Nunes, implored Comey to carry out the FBI’s investigation as quickly as possible.
“There is a big gray cloud that you've now put over people who have very important work to do to lead the country,” Nunes said. “The faster you can get to the bottom of this, it's going to be better for all Americans.”
Comey said he understood Nunes’ concerns, but also made clear that counterintelligence investigations aren't typically quick turnarounds.
“I don't know how much longer it will take,” Comey told the committee. “But we've been doing this — this investigation began in late July. So for a counterintelligence investigation, that's a fairly short period of time.”
Wednesday was a whirlwind day for lawmakers investigating Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
FBI Director James Comey briefed leaders of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The heads of the House Intelligence Committee announced that Comey had agreed to testify publicly before their panel. And Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) held a hearing in which he pleaded with the FBI to stop stonewalling Congress.
Story Continued Below
Here are five things we learned:
Lawmakers are zeroing in on two questions
Congress is determined to get answers from the Justice Department on two major questions — and they’re making clear they’re willing to play hardball if they don’t hear something soon.
First, lawmakers in both chambers are demanding that the FBI clear up President Donald Trump’s claim that former President Barack Obama wiretapped Trump Tower in the run-up to the election. Both the House Intelligence Committee and Graham’s Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism have asked the Justice Department to turn over any evidence for Trump’s allegations, including warrant applications or court orders.
And both panels are using their leverage to ensure they get what they want, raising the prospect of issuing subpoenas.
The House panel has given the Justice Department until Monday to answer its questions “and may resort to a compulsory process if our questions continue to go unanswered,” according to spokesman Jack Langer. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), meanwhile, has said his committee will not hold a vote on Trump’s nominee for deputy attorney general until he gets more information from the FBI.
The other big question for lawmakers is whether the FBI is conducting any criminal investigations into Trump campaign aides for potential collusion with Russia.
Graham said at the top of his subcommittee hearing Wednesday that the FBI still had not responded to his questions on this issue, and that he thinks the public deserves unclassified answers.
“We gave the director until today to answer the question,” Graham said. “I still don’t have answers to those questions.”
Comey can’t keep dodging forever
The FBI director has so far avoided publicly commenting on the possibility of criminal investigations into Trump associates or on Trump’s wiretapping claims, despite reports that he wanted the Justice Department to issue a disavowal of Trump’s jaw-dropping tweets.
But Comey’s moment is coming.
House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking member Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) announced at their news conference that Comey would appear before their panel at a public hearing next Monday.
This will make for great TV, as Comey is almost certain to be goaded by Democrats into denouncing Trump’s claim. One way or another, he is almost certain to anger either the president or key members of Congress.
Trump doesn’t appear to have the goods on wiretapping
Key Republicans on Capitol Hill are signaling that the evidence just isn’t there to back up Trump’s wiretapping claims.
Nunes, a staunch Trump ally during the presidential campaign, told reporters Wednesday, “I don’t think there was an actual tap of Trump Tower.”
“Are you going to take the tweets literally?” added Nunes, who was briefed by Comey behind closed doors last week. “If you are, then clearly the president was wrong.”
Even the White House has backed off a bit, with press secretary Sean Spicer saying earlier this week that Trump “doesn’t really think” that Obama “tapped his phone personally.”
With both the House and the Senate demanding information on Trump’s claims, it appears the president might soon have to face the possibility of his own executive branch providing documents to Congress that prove him wrong.
Incidental collection is key
While Nunes cast doubt on Trump’s wiretapping claim, he made clear he is concerned that Trump aides could have been under inadvertent surveillance.
This is called incidental collection, and it can occur when people in the United States communicate with a foreign target of U.S. surveillance — or even when they chat about an overseas suspect. The identities of Americans whose communications are inadvertently collected are normally kept secret, though they can be “unmasked” under certain circumstances for foreign intelligence purposes.
Nunes said Wednesday he is worried this unmasking process has been abused, citing news media reports that former national security adviser Michael Flynn had pre-inauguration phone conversations with Russia’s ambassador.
“I am quite confident that it is illegal to leak [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act] collected names of Americans,” Nunes said, calling this one of the only crimes about which he has evidence so far. “It’s also illegal to leak any additional classified information.”
He and Schiff sent a letter Wednesday to the intelligence community asking that it turn over any details about possible incidental collection on anyone associated with the Trump or Hillary Clinton campaigns.
Access is still an issue
Nunes signaled last week his committee had reached an agreement with the intelligence community over which types of information would be turned over to Congress and which types of information lawmakers could view only if they trekked out to secure facilities at the agencies.
But the congressman indicated Wednesday his access issues are not over, singling out the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
“We are a little uncomfortable with the ODNI and whether or not they’re going to let us have the proper computer technology that we need to go through the evidence that exists out at the CIA, out at Langley,” he said. “We are trying to work through that, but I can tell you that it has become a bit of a stumbling block for our investigators to actually be able to compile and cull through the information.”
Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee have also complained about access to information from the intelligence agencies as part of their investigation.
Cory Bennett and Martin Matishak contributed to this report.
For most of 2016, the New York Daily News was America’s paper of opposition to Donald Trump. But in the months since the election, just as Trump’s war with the press started going nuclear, the Manhattan-based tabloid has largely pulled back on its famous anti-Trump covers in favor of a decidedly more measured tone.
The change followed a shakeup in editorial leadership just weeks before Nov. 8. The previous editor, Jim Rich, had been resisting pressure from management to soften the Trump covers, people familiar with the matter said. He was told they were diminishing an already much diminished print subscriber base, these people said, particularly among blue-collar readers in certain corners of New York’s outer boroughs, where Trump’s nationalistic populism apparently resonates in a way that is anathema to the city’s cosmopolitan districts and immigrant enclaves.
Story Continued Below
After Rich stepped down on Oct. 18, his successor, the Pulitzer Prize-winning, longtime News fixture Arthur Browne, made clear in a meeting with editors that he believed the paper’s front-page Trump coverage needed to take a different direction, sources familiar with the remarks told POLITICO. At times, he has described the earlier anti-Trumpism as an “adventure,” according to someone who heard the remark, suggesting that the adventure is over.
Now, many News staffers and alumni feel like the air has been sucked out of the room, and they are perhaps coming to terms with the notion that Trump is more popular with segments of their readership than they thought, even in deep blue New York.
“The dissent is probably close to unanimous,” one insider told POLITICO.
Throughout almost all of last year, the News fired off dozens of withering front pages opposing Trump’s candidacy — collected here in an online photo gallery — that were tailor-made to grab the attention of the national media and go viral online. It was a classic tabloid campaign, and it made people take notice of “the Newly Relevant Daily News,” as The New York Times described the century-old publication in a favorable profile last year.
That was then, this is now: The past four months have produced more ammunition than the entirety of Trump’s campaign. Yet even as many mainstream outlets have come under siege from the new administration, reaping the benefits of a “Trump bump” in the process, the News seems less inclined to bring out the cannons.
Out? Page 1 battle cries to “STOP THE DON CON” or “BURY TRUMP IN A LANDSLIDE” or “DELETE YOUR CAMPAIGN!” Takedowns like “OFF HIS MEDS!” or “HAD EYES FOR A 10-YEAR-OLD” or “LOCK HIM UP!”
In? Treatments that are generally more even-handed, sometimes delivered with an uppercut, but nonetheless a far cry from the swashbuckling crusade that put the News on the map during election season.
At a glance, this past Sunday's front page about the president’s unsubstantiated claim that his predecessor wiretapped Trump Tower — “NUTS!” — might seem like a scathing attack. The difference, some insiders would argue, is that under the previous regime, the News would have called Trump out directly, and aggressively, for being deceitful. (Hypothetical headlines: "YOU'RE THE TRAITOR!"; "BIGGEST LIE YET!")
The anti-Trump “adventure” began when Rich was named editor in chief in September 2015 after rising through the ranks over the course of his 11 years at the News. On the heels of a similarly high-profile gun-control campaign kicked off by Rich’s predecessor, British tabloid veteran Colin Myler, Rich “doubled down on Myler’s emphasis … of publishing to the new digital beat: faster, more national, and increasingly fueled by a certain populist partisan glee,” as Sridhar Pappu put it in a New York magazine feature last January.
“The latest and most visible manifestation of that new strategic direction,” Pappu wrote, “is a reinvention of the paper’s ‘wood’ — newsman-speak for page one — for an era of hyperpartisan social sharing. Just as tabloid covers used to amuse, inform, and outrage passersby on the sidewalk, enticing them to pick them up and read all about it, the Daily News has arguably been the most aggressive and successful newspaper brand at turning the old-school institution of a front page into an irresistibly ‘like’-able image on Facebook ”
Covers like this one of Trump beheading the Statue of Liberty, from the Dec. 19, 2015 edition, were the talk of TV news and digital media, and the bosses seemed thrilled. During a rare newsroom appearance last January, according to people who were there, owner Mort Zuckerman, the 79-year-old real estate mogul and long-time Democratic donor, gushed about what the News was doing and all the buzz it was getting. At one point, according to two of the sources present, he turned to Rich and quipped, “Where have you been all my life?” (It’s no secret in New York media circles that Zuckerman’s health is in decline, which is why he has now fully stepped away from running the paper, entrusting that responsibility to his nephew, Eric Gertler.)
Starting in the summer, however, Rich began hearing complaints from management, according to sources familiar with the matter. They said he was asked to dial down the Trump fronts because they were costing the News subscriptions in places like Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. After Rich stepped down amid a disagreement putatively having to do with cost-cutting, it quickly became clear that things were about to change. (Rich would not comment for this story.)
Browne did one more front page in the previous mold — “HOUSE OF HORRORS,” with an upside down American flag on the White House lawn — the day after the election. But it was “the last of that breed,” a News journalist said, adding that the change “was jarring and confusing, and it felt like the rug had been pulled out from under us.”
In an interview, Browne disputed that the shift was a business calculation. Rather, he said, it had to do with covering Trump the candidate versus Trump the president.
“It’s one thing when you are taking a stand against a candidate both on personality and on policy grounds, and you want to depict him as a clown,” Browne said. “Once an election is over, I think it would be counterproductive and ineffective to continue to depict someone as a clown. How many times can you do that? ... The difference here, and I think this is really significant, is that we’re not attacking or commenting on the man. We are reporting on the policies and the actions as this administration plays out.”
Nevertheless, there’s a palpable sense of demoralization within the newsroom. Even if not everyone was on board with Rich’s approach, which people who worked for him agreed was “polarizing,” the place had begun to feel like it was alive again, and on a mission.
Unlike broadsheet newspapers, such as The New York Times and The Washington Post, which keep their opinions in the opinion section even when their news coverage veers into adversarial territory, tabloids have a long tradition of adopting strong positions on divisive issues, and of editorializing or advocating on the front page. That’s how the News was able to get a piece of the Trump story despite the atrophy of its national political-reporting muscles.
“Even if we weren’t in a position where could really be breaking Trump news because we don’t have a big staff or resources, we were still able to be a leading voice in the conversation because we were channeling the outrage around his rhetoric,” a News journalist told POLITICO, summarizing frustration within the newsroom thus: “Now that much of the country and the rest of the world is galvanizing, we’re taking a step back. … The energy has left the room. It just really feels like a missed opportunity. That’s what’s killing me.”
Brown pushed back on the suggestion that the way the News has handled Trump under his editorship has been soft or cautious. During a phone call, he rattled off a list of recent front pages that he said didn’t pull any punches, including: “RUSSIAN FOR THE EXIT”; “CLOSING THE GOLDEN DOOR”; “BANANAS!”; “POOR BABY!” and “WAR ON TRUTH.”
“I will leave you to make the judgment about those front pages and the consistency of the coverage,” he said.
But various current and former News journalists pointed to specific examples they said were “galling,” as one put it. For instance, the day after Trump unloaded on the media during an hour-and-a-half news conference, a spectacle that dominated the news cycle into the weekend, Trump wasn’t even the lead story on the wood — he was eclipsed by Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis’ assault and robbery charges. (The New York Post that morning went big with Trump done up in circus garb: “WILDEST SHOW ON EARTH - Ringmaster Don whips media in epic rant.”)
The cover that raised the most eyebrows among News insiders and tabloid-ologists was the paper’s inauguration edition, “DON OF A NEW DAY.” It was shocking, some of them said, not just because of its reverential tone, but because it was the exact same headline used by the Post, a red-blooded rival owned by Trump-supporting mogul Rupert Murdoch. (And a reliable proponent of right-wing causes over the years, whereas the News has traditionally been more progressive.)
“I saw that, and my jaw hit the f--king floor,” said someone who worked at the News for a long time but would only comment anonymously, like most of the current and former News-ers who spoke with POLITICO for this article. “To align so perfectly on this, that was to me where the News reached rock bottom.”
“The ‘Don of a New Day’ cover was a disgrace, and it was so disheartening for those of us who took pride in what the Daily News had done with Trump and the election,” said Andy Martino, a reporter at the News before opting to take one of the buyout packages offered to staff at the end of last year. “After nearly two years of calling Trump what he is — a clown and a dangerous racist, among other things — the paper normalized him at the worst possible time. That told you all you need to know about the shift away from an essential place in the conversation.”
Browne, who was head of the editorial board when it published an 8,000 word piece laying out why Trump shouldn’t be elected, isn’t fazed by the critics.
“They can be galled all they like,” he said. “If somebody is an anti-Trump partisan, and believes the Daily News should carry out their own anti-Trump partisanship, then that’s too bad.”
In any case, as America goes farther down the rabbit hole of Trump’s chaotic, confounding, anything-goes presidency, and as his war with the news media (presumably) intensifies, there will be no shortage of opportunities to ignite some real tabloid fire in New York, a media and political capital where Trump’s history with the tabloids is the stuff of legend.
“I think the potential is still there for them,” said George Rush, the former longtime Daily News gossip columnist. “Their best way of staying in the story is to take the role of the gadfly, and to do it with satire, because that’s what resonates. If they don’t continue to roast him, I think it would be a missed opportunity.”
President Donald Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn wrote an op-ed on Election Day calling for the U.S. to kick out an anti-government Turkish cleric without disclosing he was being paid by a firm linked to the Turkish government, according to documents newly filed with the Justice Department.
POLITICO reported in November that Flynn's consulting firm, Flynn Intel Group, was lobbying for a Dutch consulting firm with ties to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The new documents confirm that Flynn lobbied for the Turkish-linked firm, Inovo BV, before and immediately after the election. They also reveal that Flynn’s firm secretly met with the Turkish foreign and energy ministers in New York less than two months before the election. According to Inovo’s founder, Kamil Ekim Alptekin, the meeting was with Flynn himself.
Story Continued Below
The documents reveal that Inovo BV paid Flynn's firm $535,000 between Sept. 9 and Nov. 14. The firm's assignment focused on Fethullah Gülen, a Turkish cleric living in exile in Pennsylvania whom the Turkish government accuses of masterminding a failed coup against Erdogan last summer.
Flynn's firm disclosed it was lobbying for Inovo in September but did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent. Robert Kelner, a lawyer for Flynn's firm, wrote in a letter to the Justice Department on Tuesday that the firm believed at the time that the congressional disclosure was sufficient but is now registered retroactively as a foreign agent.
"Nevertheless, because of the subject matter of Flynn Intel Group's work for Inovo, which focused on Mr. Fethullah Gulen, whose extradition is sought by the Government of Turkey, the engagement could be construed to have principally benefited the Republic of Turkey," Kelner wrote. "To eliminate any potential doubt, the Flynn Intel Group therefore is electing to file a registration under FARA, in lieu of its prior LDA registration."
Flynn resigned from the Trump administration in February over calls he made to the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during the transition. Price Floyd, a spokesman for Flynn, said that Flynn had decided to retroactively register with the Justice Department “out of an abundance of caution.”
Of Flynn’s work, Price would say only that “he was hired by Inovo BV to help repair the perception of the business climate in Turkey with key audiences in the U.S. following the attempted coup.”
Flynn's op-ed, published in The Hill, argued the U.S. shouldn't provide "safe haven" to Gülen, whom Flynn compared to Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini. "We need to see the world from Turkey’s perspective," Flynn wrote. "What would we have done if right after 9/11 we heard the news that Osama bin Laden lives in a nice villa at a Turkish resort while running 160 charter schools funded by the Turkish taxpayers?"
The op-ed never disclosed that Flynn was being paid to work against Gülen, describing Flynn only as a "former director of Defense Intelligence Agency and the author of New York Times bestseller 'The Field of Fight.'" Floyd declined to comment on why Flynn didn’t make the disclosure.
Flynn’s firm continues to maintain his op-ed wasn’t tied to his firm’s work for Inovo. “The op-ed was not written or published at the request of, or under the direction or control of, Inovo, the Republic of Turkey, or any other party,” Flynn’s firm reported in the filing. “No compensation was received for the publication of the op-ed.”
Alptekin, who is also the chairman of the Turkish-American Business Council, an arm of Turkey's Foreign Economic Relations Board, told POLITICO in a phone interview from Turkey late Wednesday evening that Flynn has written the op-ed of his own accord and that he had misunderstood some of the finer points of Turkish politics. Flynn tried to tarnish Gülen’s supporters by comparing them to “one of the best friends of the Turkish government, the Muslim Brotherhood,” Alptekin said, which he would have advised against.
“I really think that he’s not very politically savvy,” Alptekin said. “He acts on his motivational impulse.”
But Flynn’s firm’s statements repeatedly undermine its assertion that the op-ed wasn’t tied to its work for Inovo. Flynn’s firm acknowledged in a filing that Bijan Rafiekian, another member of Flynn’s firm who also registered as an agent of Inovo, “and an editor, Hank Cox, participated in the drafting” of the op-ed. Cox was paid $300 by Flynn’s firm several weeks later. (Rafiekian was later named to Trump's transition team working at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. He did not respond to a request for comment.)
Flynn’s firm also admitted that “the op-ed addresses subject matter related to the research that Flynn Intel Group conducted for Inovo, and a draft of the op-ed was shared with Inovo in advance of publication. No changes, other than technical edits, were made to the op-ed based on feedback from Inovo. To the best of our knowledge, Inovo did not communicate with the Republic of Turkey regarding the op-ed or provide the draft op-ed to the government.” SGR LLC, a Washington firm that Flynn’s firm hired to do public affairs work on the Inovo project, also helped to place the op-ed in The Hill, according to the filing.
Alptekin never spoke with the Turkish government or anyone else about the op-ed, he said.
“If this was a Turkish government attempt and we were trying to hide it — imagine how dumb we all are,” Alptekin said.
Flynn’s firm also disclosed a meeting between “Flynn Intel Group” and the Turkish foreign and energy ministers in New York on Sept. 19. Alptekin confirmed that the meeting had taken place and that Flynn himself had attended it. But he said he’d set up the meeting in his capacity as chairman of the Turkish-American Business Counsel, not as the head of Inovo, and that Flynn had attended a Trump adviser, not as a contractor for Inovo.
Alptekin had to push hard to convince the Turkish foreign minister to take the meeting because he expected a Hillary Clinton victory, Alptekin said.
“In all honesty, the Turkish ministers didn’t realize that Flynn would be an important person,” he said. “Nobody expected Trump would even win.”
Flynn's firm did more than write op-eds, according to the filings. "Flynn Intel Group was tasked to perform investigative research for a specified scope of work using its laboratory team of senior defense, diplomacy, development, and intelligence professionals over a three-month period," the firm disclosed. "Flynn Intel Group was to retain an experienced filming and production crew in order to develop a short film piece on the results of its investigation, and a public affairs firm to utilize for public affairs as needed. Flynn Intel group held weekly calls with the client to report engagement progress."
Flynn's firm reported spending nearly $250,000 on the project. Flynn himself received $12,000 for "Administrative Support" — including a $4,000 check on Nov. 22, four days after Trump tapped Flynn as national security adviser. The firm spent $40,000 with SGR LLC, a Washington consulting firm, but it doesn't appear the firm ever produced a video.
SGR "was engaged but the video was not completed or disseminated, to the best of our understanding," Flynn's firm reported. "Because this is a retroactive registration prepared after Flynn Intel Group had already begun to close operations, this registration is based on documentation currently available to Flynn Intel Group," the report continues. "If additional relevant information is later identified, Flynn Intel Group will amend its registration.” SGR never produced a video, according to the firm.
Among other Inovo-related expenses, Flynn's firm also reported paying $1,200 for an "interview" to Rudi Bakhtiar, a former Fox News reporter who said she was fired after rejecting a colleague's advances. It was not immediately clear what the payment was for. Bakhtiar didn’t respond to a request for comment.
The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee on Thursday accused FBI Director James Comey of withholding crucial information about its probe into Russian interference in the election and raised the prospect of subpoenaing the agency.
“I would say at this point we know less than a fraction of what the FBI knows,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) told reporters after a briefing with Comey.
Story Continued Below
“I appreciate we had a long briefing and testimony from the director today, but in order for us to do our investigation in a thorough and credible way, we’re gonna need the FBI to fully cooperate, to be willing to tell us the length and breadth of any counterintelligence investigations they are conducting,” Schiff said. “At this point, the director was not willing to do that.”
The briefing came as Attorney General Jeff Sessions is facing calls to recuse himself from an investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia after The Washington Post reported that Sessions met twice with the Russian ambassador last year and didn’t tell senators about it during his confirmation hearing.
Schiff described the House panel’s investigation as “among the most serious that we’ve ever done” but argued that the committee can’t thoroughly do its job if the Justice Department or FBI “is unwilling to tell us what indeed they looked at, what leads they have followed, where they have found substance and where they have not.”
“I’m disappointed we didn’t have that briefing today,” he said.
During the briefing, Schiff said, Comey faced “repeated questions about the scope of any investigation they were doing” and “individuals that may be the subject of any counterterrorism investigation.”
“The director declined to answer those questions,” Schiff said.
Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who chairs the committee, maintained that there is no evidence of contacts between Trump associates and Russian officials, aside from former national security adviser Michael Flynn’s call to the Russian ambassador before Trump was sworn in.
“But, as I’ve said, I read about this in the newspaper, and I see some of you talking about it,” Nunes said. “If you have those names, of those people, if you wanna come forward as a whistleblower and bring those to us, we would greatly appreciate it because we would like to have those names, bring those people in, but we need some credible evidence in order to do that.”
Schiff raised the prospect that it could have been Sessions' Justice Department that advised Comey to be less than forthcoming. “It was unclear whether that decision was a decision he was making on his own or a decision that he is making in consultation with the Department of Justice,” he said.
An FBI spokeswoman declined to comment on Schiff’s allegations.
Nunes, however, argued that “it’s not a matter of them not being forthcoming” but rather “a matter of them providing us timely information when they can get it to us.”
“It’s not always easy to get” that information, he said, noting that sometimes “it’s complicated.”
He then advised reporters to "be careful" because congressional investigators could get interested in their contacts with Russian officials.
“I’m sure some of you are in contact with the Russian embassy, so be careful what you ask for here because if we start getting transcripts of any of you or other Americans talking to the press, then we can — do you want us to conduct an investigation on you or other Americans because you were talking to the Russian embassy?” he asked. “I just think we need to be careful.”
Schiff added that lawmakers have yet to be fully briefed on counterintelligence by the FBI. “That can’t persist,” he said. “If we’re gonna do our job, the FBI is going to have to fully cooperate with us, and that means they can't say, ‘We’ll tell you about this, but we won't tell you about that.’”
The House intel ranking member also indicated that Comey and the Justice Department should be more cooperative and forthcoming at their next meeting “because we’re gonna need that information.”
“And we’re better off getting that through the voluntary cooperation of the FBI than having to contemplate whether we need to subpoena the FBI,” he warned.
The embattled attorney general has faced a growing number of calls from fellow Republicans urging him to recuse himself from any investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia, while Democratic leaders have insisted that Sessions resign from his post as the nation’s chief law enforcement official.
“Up until now, I wasn’t sure whether there should be a special prosecutor because that is a function of a couple of things. It’s a function of whether the attorney general can be independent or whether there’s a conflict of interest or an appearance of impropriety — and whether there’s something concrete and specific enough to be investigated,” he said. “I am now convinced that both of those criteria are met and that an independent prosecutor should be appointed. Certainly, the attorney general is in no position to oversee any investigation or prosecution involving any of the counterintelligence issues concerning Russia. So I am now convinced that an independent prosecutor is necessary.”
As for Nunes, he said, “I have no idea” if Sessions should recuse himself “because we have no idea what he did or didn’t do.”
Having reserved judgment earlier on whether Sessions should resign, Schiff later Thursday called on Sessions to resign.
Josh Gerstein contributed to this report.
Sen. Lindsey Graham said Wednesday he wants all presidential candidates to be required by law to release their tax returns, starting in 2020.
The South Carolina Republican said his proposal would include Donald Trump if the president seeks reelection.
Story Continued Below
“I think that prospectively what I'll do is, any candidate running in 2020 needs to release their tax returns,” Graham told reporters. Asked how he would enforce this, he responded: “You just make it a law.” He then explained that the law would apply to Trump, “if he’s a candidate for president” in 2020.
Graham is one of Trump’s fiercest GOP critics, calling for a select committee to investigate Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election and speaking out against some of Trump’s most incendiary claims, including his insistence that massive voter fraud is what caused him to lose the popular vote to Hillary Clinton.
Congressional Democrats have been looking for ways to force Trump to release his tax returns, which he refused to do on the campaign trail despite decades of precedence. So far, Republicans have thwarted these efforts.
Republican Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), though, signaled in a recent interview she was open to issuing a subpoena for the returns as part of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s larger investigation into Russia’s interference in the presidential election.
President Donald Trump addressed Congress for the first time on Tuesday, delivering a markedly more unifying and optimistic message than his past major speeches. Here’s how it broke down, by the numbers:
Length of speech: 60 minutes, 14 seconds
Story Continued Below
Trump’s first address to the nation lasted slightly longer than each of the last five president’s first address to Congress. It was seconds longer than Bill Clinton’s first address to Congress and almost 10 minutes longer than Barack Obama’s first address to Congress, according to C-SPAN.
Applause lines: 84
The president received consistent applause throughout the night from congressional Republicans and, at times, Democrats. The longest applause of the night occurred for Carryn Owens, the widow of Ryan Owens, the Navy SEAL killed in a Yemen raid. Trump even mentioned this applause, saying it “just broke a record.”
Mentions of Obamacare: 5
Trump spoke about the “collapsing,” “imploding,” “disaster” of the Affordable Care Act, as congressional Republicans struggle to design a suitable replacement for the law they have vowed to repeal.
Times Democrats audibly reacted negatively in response to a Trump statement: 4
The Democrats audibly grumbled multiple times during the speech, including when Trump said he was working to “drain the swamp,” when he talked about repealing Obamacare, when he talked about undocumented immigrants killing American citizens, and when he said that “trivial fights are behind us.”
Mentions of the wall: 1
Trump mentioned his long-discussed border wall, saying construction will begin “soon” and “will be started ahead of schedule and, when finished, it will be a very effective weapon against drugs and crime.”
Mentions of anti-Semitism: 1
Although he didn’t use the word, “anti-Semitism,” Trump began his speech by addressing the recent wave of anti-Semitic bomb threats and cemetery vandalisms across the country. He also mentioned the shooting near Kansas City the FBI is investigating as a hate crime against two Indian men.
“We are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms,” Trump said.
Mentions of the media: 1
Trump has made his hostility towards the media well-known during his campaign and the first month of his presidency, often calling stories he doesn’t like “fake news.” However, during this speech, he moved away from his fight with the media as he only criticized the media once, saying the media has "ignored" those impacted by crime by undocumented immigrants.
Mentions of his electoral victory: 1
Near the start of his speech, Trump talked about the “rebellion” of voters who vaulted him into office. He said his supporters were united by the demand that “America must put its own citizens first.”
Uses of the term "radical Islamic terrorism": 1
Although national security adviser Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster urged Trump to drop the term “radical Islamic terrorism” from his vocabulary, Trump used it once during his speech.
Mentions of voter fraud or Hillary Clinton: 0
Trump took a step away from his campaign rhetoric that he has continued into his transition and first month of his presidency by not mentioning his claims of voter fraud or Hillary Clinton.


Donald Trump was a “leader in the effort to call Brexit,” White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Wednesday when asked to comment on the U.K.’s triggering of Article 50.
Spicer told reporters in Washington that Trump was “very well steeped in world affairs, especially Europe, NATO, all the issues.”
“He was a leader in the effort to call for Brexit, as you know,” Spicer said, adding that the U.S. “respects the will of the British electorate.”
Last summer, Trump took to Twitter to proclaim “they will soon be calling me MR. BREXIT!”
On the campaign trail, Trump said he supported the U.K. leaving the EU, and welcomed the result of the June referendum, saying it was “a great thing” that the British voters “took back their country.”
He visited his Scottish golf resort a day after the U.K. referendum and predicted that the EU would break up as a result.
“So I could see it happening. I have no opinion, really, but I could certainly see it happening,” he said at the time. “I saw this happening. I could read what was happening here and I could see things happening in Germany.
LONDON — In the end it wasn’t a statement to parliament, it was a speech to the country to stay on board — and a message to Europe not to turn away.
On Wednesday afternoon, ten minutes after European Council President Donald Tusk received a six-page letter confirming Britain’s intention to withdraw from the European Union, Theresa May used the chamber of the House of Commons as a rostrum to open the negotiations.
Her goals were clear: aim high, speak softly and carry a big stick.
The U.K. prime minister made no effort to downplay the occasion or the goals she has set herself. “This is a historic moment from which there can be no turning back,” she told MPs. “Britain is leaving the European Union. We are going to make our own decisions and our own laws. We are going to take control of the things that matter most to us.”
To do this, Britain would leave the single market, the customs union and the European Court of Justice.
So far, so Brexit.
It could also all be tied up in two years, with a “really big” free trade deal, deeper and more comprehensive than anything that has gone before.
The upshot of all this, the prime minister said, should be a new “deep and special partnership” between the U.K. and EU that was in everyone’s interests.
As so often in British politics, the rhetoric verged on the Churchillian. “At moments like these – great turning points in our national story,” May said, “the choices we make define the character of our nation. We can choose to say the task ahead is too great. We can choose to turn our face to the past and believe it can’t be done. Or we can look forward with optimism and hope — and to believe in the enduring power of the British spirit.”
In her letter to the European Council, she evoked similar “finest hour” rhetoric.
“The task before us is momentous but it should not be beyond us,” she wrote in words meant for all EU leaders. “After all, the institutions and the leaders of the European Union have succeeded in bringing together a continent blighted by war into a union of peaceful nations, and supported the transition of dictatorships to democracy.”
Here are 8 takeaways from a momentous day in post-war European history:
The standout line of the prime minister’s letter was the threat — implicit, veiled and couched, but clear to anyone who wanted to look for it — that kicking Britain into the cold has consequences.
“In security terms a failure to reach agreement would mean our cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism would be weakened,” May wrote in her letter. In other words: We help protect you, so don’t screw us.
“Is she really saying the security of our country will be traded like a bargaining chip in these negotiations?” Labour MP Stephen Kinnock demanded to know in the debate which followed May’s statement this afternoon.
The prime minister was bashful but resolute: “We are not going to be trading the security of our country.”
Then came the inevitable “but.”
“But there are certain elements of the European Union in justice and home affairs that we are currently members of but in leaving the European Union we will not be members of. We need to negotiate what the future relationship will be. It’s very simple. It’s very pragmatic. The aim of this will be to ensure cooperation on these matters.”
What does this threat actually amount to, reporters asked the prime minister’s official spokesman afterward.
“The PM’s words speak for themselves. It’s a simple fact that if we leave the EU without a deal, any arrangements which we have as part of our EU membership will lapse. Security arrangements which we have with the EU based on EU rules and EU institutions would obviously lapse if we left the EU without a deal.”
Is NATO affected? “The arrangements which we have with NATO are entirely separate.” Intelligence-sharing? “They’re separate as well.” The European Arrest Warrant? “Yeah.”
May laid out her ambition with almost Trumpian clarity in the Commons: “A really big trade deal.”
This is Britain’s ultimate goal. A free-trade deal with the EU that’s bigger than anything Brussels has attempted before. And it should all be tied up in two years. Oh, and it should include a pact on “crime, terror and foreign affairs,” mutual recognition of citizens’ rights and a divorce deal settling all debts and ongoing financial obligations.
In the letter, May is clear that any free trade deal must eclipse the EU-Canada pact, which took seven years to negotiate. “This should be of greater scope and ambition than any such agreement before,” May wrote.
Most importantly, it should cover “sectors crucial to our linked economies such as financial services.” In other words, a deal that protects the City of London and isn’t just about manufacturing and agriculture.
Labour’s Pat McFadden even noted that the nature of cooperation with the rest of the EU might make some wonder: “What was the point?”
May needed to paint a picture of a future that is worth Europe’s while. The solution: “A deep and special partnership.”
In her letter to the European Council, the prime minister repeated the phrase seven times.
It’s Brexit, but a little less Brexity. Not membership, but something a lot more significant than nothing at all. A third way Brexit — or associate status in all but name.
In both her statement to MPs and her letter to Tusk, the U.K. prime minister acknowledged two potential problems in the upcoming negotiations — and offered Britain’s preferred solutions.
Yes, the U.K. will quit the single market and the customs union and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, which acts as the ultimate court of arbitration across the EU.
In leaving, May acknowledged there needs to be a new arrangement for “how we resolve disputes.” In other words: a court and one that is likely to be outside the U.K.
The other problem in gaining access to the European market is the fear — only heightened by British threats to become a tax haven – that the U.K. could try to gain an unfair advantage by slashing business regulations and product standards.
To counter this, May offered up so-called regulatory equivalence — in other words, Britain won’t become a European Singapore. “We should prioritize how we manage the evolution of our regulatory frameworks to maintain a fair and open trading environment,” she wrote.
While insisting that everything can be wrapped up legally in two years, May acknowledged it is certain to take much longer to get there in reality.
“In order to avoid any cliff-edge as we move from our current relationship to our future partnership,” May wrote, “people and businesses in both the U.K and the EU would benefit from implementation periods to adjust in a smooth and orderly way to new arrangements.
“It would help both sides to minimize unnecessary disruption if we agree on this principle early in the process.”
Downing Street is now looking at different “implementation periods” for different sectors.
“There are different issues that we’ve spelled out, whether that be immigration, customs, trade,” the prime minister’s official spokesman said. “You could potentially have different implementation periods for each of the different issues.”
What about the ECJ during the transition? “That’s for the negotiation discussion.”
This will be greeted with some happiness in Brussels.
Without committing to anything, May was clear that Britain would not walk away from its financial commitments.
“We will need to discuss how we determine a fair settlement of the U.K.’s rights and obligations as a departing member country,” May wrote in her letter to Tusk. These will be “in accordance with the law and in the spirit of the United Kingdom’s continuing partnership with the EU.”
In other words, if the U.K. remains a “partner” and isn’t sent packing without a deal, it will honor the “spirit” of whatever it has signed up to already.
In the run-up to the triggering of Article 50, there had been speculation that only EU citizens already in the U.K. before the formal notification of Britain’s intention to leave the EU would be protected by any deal on citizens’ rights. If that plan was ever considered, it was shelved.
“We will of course continue to fulfill our responsibilities as a member state while we remain a member of the European Union,” May wrote to Tusk.
Will EU migrants arriving tomorrow have the same rights as those arriving today, May’s spokesman was asked.
“The fact is, we are going to honor our obligations and commitments while we are a full member of the European Union. Any right which an EU citizen currently has, we have said, while we are members, we will honor. It’s as simple as that.”
Following a huddle with the prime minister’s spokesman after her statement, reporters attempting to confirm the precise moment that the U.K. would formally leave the EU were treated to an uncharacteristically specific Downing Street briefing: “It’s when Big Ben bongs at midnight” of the night of March 29, 2019, the spokesman confirmed.
Hope for the best, prepare for the worst — negotiators on both sides of the English Channel clutched that trite prescription like a security blanket on Wednesday as U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May threw the Brexit switch.
As the EU’s machinery for expunging a member sputtered into operation, all the players agreed that the undertaking ahead would be a slog, will likely get nasty, and will leave both sides worse off than they are now.
“There is nothing to win in this process,” a saddened Donald Tusk, the European Council president, said after taking receipt of the notice. “And I am talking about both sides. In essence, this is about damage control.”
In fact, it’s about survival.
While the U.K. sees its economic lifeblood, and possibly its territorial integrity, hanging in the balance, Europe’s remaining 27 members are on a mission to save the EU itself. What will make the negotiations in the coming months so fraught is that to protect their core interests, neither side can afford to give much ground.
Former Italian Prime Minister and European commissioner Mario Monti offered a frank appraisal of what is at stake for the EU during a POLITICO event in Brussels this week: Without the EU “there would soon be wars again between Western European countries,” he said.
Fears that buckling to the U.K.’s demands would sow the demise of the EU itself explains why European leaders, from German Chancellor Angela Merkel to Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, have vowed to protect the EU’s founding principles, the so-called four freedoms, at any price.
Even as European leaders expressed regret at the British decision on Wednesday and called for continued close cooperation, they left little doubt that they would drive a hard bargain in the talks.
“We know what we want and have a clear, differentiated negotiating position,” German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in Berlin.
That determination could doom the talks, leaving a so-called hard Brexit — one without an arrangement on future relations — the only option.
While both sides say they want to avoid that outcome, so far they can’t even agree on a framework for the talks. London wants to discuss the terms of its future relationship with the EU concurrently with the talks on its withdrawal. Brussels, meanwhile, insists on getting the exit settled before tabling proposals for a free-trade deal and other arrangements.
Though the negotiation phase is slated to last two years, officials effectively have just 18 months to hash out a deal because any accord would need approval from member countries, a circuitous, time-consuming process.
Given the emotional nature of many of the issues at hand — from the rights of EU and U.K. nationals now residing in either sphere to the open border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland — the time pressure doesn’t bode well for an agreement.
That leaves the U.K. at a clear disadvantage. It can’t extend the negotiation phase without the agreement of all 27 remaining EU members. What’s more, it has little leverage in the talks.
A big problem for London is that the more likely hard Brexit appears, the more businesses, in particular financial firms in the City, will flee. And the more that happens, the less incentive the EU has to meet the U.K.’s demands.
Nearly one in 10 German companies is planning to repatriate its U.K. operations and investments, regardless of the talks’ outcome, according to DIHK, a German business lobby. Considering that the U.K. is Germany’s third-largest export market, the impact on jobs there would likely be considerable.
While the Continent isn’t oblivious to the risk of losing the EU’s second-largest economy, officials’ main focus appears to be on using the crisis to reform the EU itself.
The EU’s priority shift was on display Wednesday.
In the morning, Tim Barrow, the U.K.’s permanent representative, attended the regular meeting of EU ambassadors in Brussels for the final time before negotiations on its departure begin. Shortly afterward, he would hand-deliver the British government’s letter triggering Article 50 to Tusk.
Brexit didn’t come up during the meeting, according to two diplomats who attended. Instead, the gathered diplomats talked about preparations for an upcoming meeting of foreign ministers and aid for victims of the recent earthquake in Italy.
Brexit is yesterday’s news, the diplomats explained to POLITICO. They had more pressing issues to address.
“No one said a word about it,” one said.
Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this article.
This is the letter that formally begins the U.K.’s departure from the European Union — the stuff of Brexiteers’ wildest dreams and Remainers’ worst nightmares.
It is both a formality but also, the U.K. government believes, an important opportunity to set the tone for negotiations with the EU27.
“The message that we set out today in the prime minister’s letter is important. It is important that we deliver the right tone and the right signals to our European Union partners about how we want to conduct this negotiation and I think the letter does that,” Chancellor Philip Hammond said in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s Today program Wednesday morning.
But what tone does the letter set?
Below is an interactive guide to May’s Article 50 letter. Click on the numbers to see annotations from POLITICO journalists on what May said and what she actually meant.






Arnau Busquets Guàrdia contributed to this article.
The lawmaker tasked with exploring possible Dutch governing alliances said a new government could take office before the summer, but said a coalition agreement before Easter is ‘”highly unlikely,” local media reported Wednesday.
Edith Schippers, a center-right politician and former health minister, commented for the first time on her talks with the leaders of four parties after the parliamentary election on March 15.
Schippers on Monday handed a progress report on the negotiations to parliament, saying that an agreement between Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), the Christian Democrats (CDA), liberal D66 and the center-left GreenLeft had the best chance of success.
“Negotiating is a precarious process,” she said, adding that she did not want to revel any details of the discussions.
None of the party leaders commented on how long the talks will take.
The European Union’s objective in Brexit negotiations will be to “minimize the costs for EU citizens, businesses and members,” European Council President Donald Tusk said on Wednesday.
“This is about damage control,” Tusk said after Tim Barrow, Britain’s ambassador to the EU, delivered the letter from Theresa May officially notifying Brussels that the U.K. will leave the bloc.
Tusk said the 27 remaining members of the EU would be “determined and united” in the Brexit negotiations.
 
Britain officially told the EU on Wednesday it will leave the bloc, setting the clock ticking on a two-year period for negotiating its departure.
Tim Barrow, Britain’s ambassador to the EU, handed over Prime Minister Theresa May’s letter to European Council President Donald Tusk.
“This is an historic moment from which there can be no turning back,” May told the House of Commons shortly after the notification had been delivered.
In Brussels, Tusk expressed sadness that Britain was leaving but said the remaining 27 EU members would be “determined and united” in their talks with the U.K. government.
“In essence this is about damage control,” Tusk said. “Our goal is clear — to minimize the cost for citizens, businesses and member states. We will do everything in our power to achieve this goal.”

Under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, the EU and a departing state have two years to negotiate the terms of their separation. That period can be extended only with the agreement of all EU members.
The formal notification comes nine months after Britain opted for Brexit in a referendum, with 52 percent of voters in favor. The United Kingdom has been a member of the EU since 1973.
May said Brexit was “this generation’s chance to shape a brighter future for this country.” She said she wanted Britain to come out of the process “stronger, fairer, more united and more outward-looking than ever before.”
In her letter to Tusk, May repeated her call for a “deep and special partnership” with the EU.
However, she appeared to put herself on a collision course with Brussels by insisting that both the divorce deal and the terms of the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU could be completed within two years, insisting that an institution that “succeeded in bringing together a continent blighted by war into a union of peaceful nations” should be up to the task.
A free trade agreement between the U.K. and the EU should be “of greater scope and ambition than any such agreement before it so that it covers sectors crucial to our linked economies such as financial services and network industries,” said the prime minister.
She also called for “implementation periods to adjust in a smooth and orderly way to new arrangements.”
May repeated her insistence that if the two sides could not reach a deal, the U.K. would fall back to trading with EU on World Trade Organization terms, and held out the U.K.’s influential contribution to EU security as a bargaining chip.
“In security terms a failure to reach agreement would mean our cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism would be weakened,” she wrote. “In this kind of scenario, both the United Kingdom and the European Union would of course cope with the change, but it is not the outcome that either side should seek. We must therefore work hard to avoid that outcome.”
However, she signaled that the U.K. was willing to ensure that companies that wished to trade with the EU met the bloc’s regulatory standards in order to guarantee a smooth trading relationship.
“We … understand that there will be consequences for the U.K. of leaving the EU: we know that we will lose influence over the rules that affect the European economy,” she wrote. “We also know that U.K. companies will, as they trade within the EU, have to align with rules agreed by institutions of which we are no longer a part – just as U.K. companies do in other overseas markets.”
In an offering to the Scottish government, which wants to hold a new referendum on independence, May said some powers taken back from Brussels would be devolved to Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast. “The outcome of this process will be a significant increase in the decision-making power of each devolved administration,” she wrote.
 
Unidentified assailants attacked the Polish consulate in Lutsk, in western Ukraine on Wednesday, Radio Poland reported.
“It was probably a grenade launcher,” Polish Consul Krzysztof Sawicki told local media. “The projectile hit the top floor, leaving a hole of about 70 centimeters.”
No one was injured in the attack.
The Polish foreign ministry summoned the Ukrainian ambassador to Poland, Andrii Deshchytsia, in response.
“We expect and demand that the security of our institutions be improved across Ukraine,” a spokesman for the Polish foreign ministry said in a statement. He called on Ukrainian authorities to “explain the circumstances of the incident,” and to “identify and arrest the perpetrators.”
Ukraine’s President Petro Poroshenko condemned the attack on Twitter, saying he had “urgently” ordered authorities to “take all reasonable measures to investigate this incident and the perpetrators.”

PARIS — Manuel Valls, France’s Socialist former prime minister, said Wednesday he would back centrist Emmanuel Macron in an upcoming presidential election instead of his party’s own candidate, speeding the collapse of a major center-left force.
After weeks of internal debate and closed-door meetings with Socialist MPs, Valls told BFMTV that backing Macron was the best way to keep far-right leader Marine Le Pen from power winning power in May.
“I’m not going to take any risks,” said Valls, who lost a left-wing primary election to former education minister Benoît Hamon earlier this year.
Valls’ decision to back Macron — who is not a member of the Socialist Party and quit his cabinet post last year amid disagreement over policy — marks a watershed moment for French socialism. More than a slap in the face for Hamon, it accelerates the breakup of a party that took its current form in 1971 under ex-President François Mitterrand and stretches its roots to the turn of last century.
But the immediate effect was to bring up years of bottled acrimony. Former Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg blasted Valls as a “man without honor” whose word meant “nothing.” MP Berger Karine Berger tweeted that Valls’ behavior was “pathetic.”
MP Mathieu Hanotin, another Hamon backer, said: “Manuel Valls chose to go back on his word (of backing the primary election’s winner)… This shows us a political class that is ready to do anything to stay in power.”
Between Hamon and Valls, there will be little love lost. The former education minister, who battled Valls’ government as a rebel backbencher for two years, has repeatedly accused his ex-boss of “betrayal”. Valls responded to the accusation last Sunday in an editorial where he accused Hamon, without naming him, of “cynicism” and “pretending” that the world beyond the socialist party “did not exist.”
Kiss of death?
Valls’ move raised two immediate questions: Will it help Macron get elected president next May, and what will it do to the Socialist Party?
On the first score, the answer is: marginally — with a risk of negative effects. Deeply unpopular by the end of his term in government, Valls won just under a million votes in the final round of a primary he lost against Hamon.
But many Valls supporters shifted their support to Macron on the day of Hamon’s victory. Their backing is largely factored into Macron’s overall support already. Some socialists may have been waiting for a signal from Valls, but not many.
Conversely, Valls’ support could prove toxic for Macron. It binds him more tightly to the legacy of France’s least popular president since World War II, allowing critics to argue that Macron is a “mini-me” version of President François Hollande who will pursue his policies once in office. The implied links to Valls and Hollande are especially repulsive to right-wing voters, whose moderate fringe may be tempted by Macron but would balk at voting for anything resembling a “socialist government.”
Wary of getting Hollande-ed, Macron is trying to keep the socialists at arm’s length. “I did not start a bed-and-breakfast, sorry to say,” he said earlier this month. “We started a political movement and I am a candidate for the presidency of the Republic.” He added that politicians who chose to join his movement were acting as “individuals” and not representatives of their group.
Long live the Socialist Party
On the question of the socialist party’s future, Valls’ departure hints at an imminent collapse — or at the least a radical reconfiguration that would leave the ruling group vastly diminished in size and more clearly positioned to the left.
During a speech Tuesday, Macron warned that anyone who wanted to run for legislative office for his En Marche! movement would first have to rescind any party membership. This was a signal to the 72 MPs who, according to a BFMTV tally, have already announced that they would join Macron’s movement that there would be no turning back.
Hamon heads into the election with the support of 192 MPs, against a formidable competitor to his left: firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon. More radical than Hamon and unimpeded by any party affiliation, Mélenchon is overtaking him in the polls and squeezing the socialist into a narrow box between himself and Macron.
“The Socialist Party as we have known it since 1971 is dead,” said Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the Sciences Po political science institute in Paris and specialist in left-wing politics. “Hamon’s mistake was not understanding that here is always someone who is more left-wing than you are. Mélenchon wants to kill the Socialist Party, which no longer has any credibility.”
While socialists attacked Valls for killing their party, Grundberg argued that its demise started much earlier — almost immediately after Hollande won power in 2012. Within months, a rebel wing of the party detached itself from government and began to fight its policies. Hamon joined their ranks after quitting his cabinet post in 2014, going so far as to sign a motion of censure against his own government.
“They are the ones who stopped their own government from governing,” Grundberg said of Hamon and the other socialist rebels. “The left did not let its party govern, although, of course, Hollande’s weak leadership plays an enormous part in this as well.”
The British government has formally triggered Article 50, firing the starting gun on Brexit negotiations.
Tim Barrow, the U.K.’s permanent representative in Brussels, hand-delivered a letter from Prime Minister Theresa May to Donald Tusk, President of the European Council.
This moment — B-day as it is being referred to in Westminster — has dominated political debate in the U.K. and across Europe ever since the referendum on June 23 last year, in which 51.9 percent of the U.K. voted in favour of leaving the bloc.
For a deal to be concluded within the two-year timeline, both sides need to have reached an agreement in just 18 months — by October 2018 — leaving enough time for the U.K. and European parliaments to sign off on the divorce terms.
Tusk is expected to deliver “draft guidelines” for the negotiations on Friday. A Brexit summit for EU leaders minus May is set for April 29 to discuss the EU27’s negotiating position in the talks.
Here’s your essential POLITICO reading list to help you navigate the Brexit talks.
Follow live coverage of the events throughout the day on our live blog.
French presidential candidate François Fillon’s wife has been charged for her role in the fake jobs scandal that has threatened to derail the conservative’s campaign, Reuters reported late Tuesday.
Penelope Fillon will face charges of concealment of public funds and abuse of social property, according to the report. The conservative candidate himself was formally charged earlier this month after Le Canard Enchaîné revealed in January he had hired his wife and children as parliamentary assistants for work they may not have done.
Fillon has maintained her innocence, saying she has “confidence in the justice system.” Le Canard estimated she received €930,000 in public funds.
Fillon hired his wife from 1988 to 1990, and again from 1998 to 2002. After Fillon became prime minister in 2002, his replacement in parliament Marc Joulaud kept Penelope on the payroll. Joulaud announced last week he was being charged in the same scandal.
Since Penelopegate began in January, Fillon’s popularity has flagged and he is expected to finish third in the first round of the French elections on April 23, behind centrist Emmanuel Macron and far-right candidate Marine Le Pen. The top two candidates will progress to the runoff vote.
Brexit threatens to wreak havoc in many of Europe’s biggest sectors, throwing doubt on everything from fish supplies to greenhouse gas-cutting measures to student exchange programs.
While British Prime Minister Theresa May’s triggering of Article 50 Wednesday will mark the beginning of the U.K.’s negotiations with the EU, it does little to answer the endless questions that the U.K.’s departure raises for Europe’s regulatory and trade landscape.
Much of that will depend on just how deep the split between the U.K. and the European single market will be. Whether you’re talking banks, farmers, energy suppliers or airlines, the preference is almost invariably the shallower the better.
POLITICO looks at what Brexit will mean for several key policy areas.
The mandarins at the European Commission have so far insisted that talks on trade can’t begin until the size of the divorce settlement is finalized as part of the two-year Article 50 process. That means attention likely won’t turn to the kind of access Britain will get to EU markets for a few months. May has been clear that Britain will leave the single market. But given that around 45 percent of all U.K. exports are to the EU, some kind of arrangement will need to be worked out to avoid falling off a trade cliff in March 2019. The “Plan B” option of trading under World Trade Organization (WTO) rules may not be as easy as many have hoped. The U.K. is signed up as an independent member of the WTO, but many of the terms were thrashed out by the EU. Without clarity on that, Downing Street will find it difficult to discuss new trade deals with far-flung countries like New Zealand or the United States.
Keeping the City of London’s financial hub alive after so-called passporting rights come to an end will require a new set of British laws corresponding to the EU’s. That means a guaranteed period of limbo after the divorce. The only way U.K.-based banks, clearing houses and other institutions will be able to access EU clients, and vice versa, will be if Britain is deemed an “equivalent” jurisdiction across multiple financial regulations. In theory, this could be easy, since the U.K. is likely to copy and paste EU regulation into its own laws. But the issue of equivalence tends to be more political than technical, and it will inevitably take time because the U.K. can’t start to apply for equivalence until it leaves the EU. In another blow to Britain, the European Central Bank and the EU may not want London to continue to dominate the euro-clearing business, worth hundreds of billions of euros. In the meantime, rather than enduring years of uncertainty, banks and other financial institutions could start relocating their business and staff as soon as this summer.
Of top concern for many EU countries is the future of EU citizens living in the U.K. and Britons living in the bloc — amounting to some 4 million people. But the arrangement is under discussion and far from clear. What is clear, however, is that citizens on both sides of the English Channel want to be assured of protections and don’t want to be used as bargaining chips. May stressed in January that the U.K. will emerge with full control of immigration from the EU to Britain, without giving details. The impact of Brexit on Europe’s migration policy, instead, is limited, as the U.K. didn’t take part in core programs for some 160,000 refugees, including two to relocate people from one EU state to another.
London has opposed EU defense integration for years. So it’s not by chance that with Brexit on the horizon, this is the field where deepening cooperation seems to be moving ahead. In a major step toward the plan, the EU agreed in November to explore the potential for allowing countries willing to push on to do so without waiting for others. EU leaders will discuss its implementation in June. Germany, France, Italy and Spain are pushing for it. The bloc also launched a new military unit in March that would be responsible for some EU training missions. For some member countries, it’s the first step toward establishing a real military HQ — another idea that London has always opposed.
The most immediate implications of Brexit on EU foreign policy are already in focus, and are also difficult to distinguish from the bloc’s response to U.S. President Donald Trump: an enthusiastic embrace of internationalism, including a purposeful pivot to Asia in hopes of strengthening ties and forging new trade agreements. The U.K.’s departure is not expected to spur any major shift in EU foreign policy, as the bloc prides itself on being the steadiest and most consistent major actor on the world stage, and the global leader when it comes to wielding soft power such as development aid. Major EU initiatives focused on reconstruction and humanitarian assistance in Afghanistan and Syria will continue, as will aggressive outreach toward the Western Balkans, with a (long-term) eye toward adding new EU members. The same goes for partnership with the U.K. on some foreign affairs issues, especially through NATO, and on matters such as the economic sanctions imposed on Russia. Because while the U.K. will undoubtedly look to build a truly independent foreign policy, leaders in London and Brussels have repeatedly stated they expect Britain and the EU to remain close allies and partners in foreign affairs, security and defense. One area of divergence, however, could be in relations with the U.S., as the Trump administration has expressed affection for Brexit and skepticism toward the EU.
Quitting the EU won’t cut the U.K.’s ties to the rest of Europe through gas and power links and possibly an emissions trading market. But Britain will have no influence over the bloc’s policies in those areas — to the detriment of both sides. Gas and electricity flow between the U.K. and the EU, especially between Ireland and Northern Ireland. A hard break from the EU’s internal energy market would therefore result in steeper energy prices and bigger risks of supply shortages for the U.K. and Ireland, and possibly elsewhere. Further complicating the negotiations will be Britain’s withdrawal from the European atomic energy community, Euratom, raising questions about who will cover inspections of the country’s civil nuclear sites, manage nuclear fuel sales and fund research and development. Meanwhile, the EU stands to lose a particularly loud voice in favor of tougher climate policies such as a higher-priced Emissions Trading System.
British farmers have one reason to celebrate Brexit: The end of an EU rule requiring large farms to grow at least three crops, to protect soil health. The country’s farmers hate the rule, arguing that it eats into their profits and is ineffective, and farming minister Andrea Leadsom has already committed to eliminating it. But British farmers also face a large downside: They risk losing access to the EU single market. Without a new free trade agreement, those looking to move produce between the U.K. and EU could see big tariffs imposed in both directions. London’s overtures to massive agricultural producers including Brazil, Australia and the U.S. is also worrying for British farmers, who fear they will be unable to survive if vast quantities of cheap food flood the market. British fisheries, instead, may be about to get the upper hand over their French, Spanish, Dutch and Irish counterparts, who rely heavily on rich U.K. waters to fill their fishing quotas. The U.K. government has said it will refuse EU vessels the right to fish in its waters. But the EU does have a strong card to play, as the largest fish and seafood market in the world.
Keeping traffic moving will be chief among transport concerns for British negotiators — both at port terminals and in the country’s airspace. The common aviation area now allows British registered airlines to fly their aircraft freely between airports around the bloc. But that access isn’t guaranteed without club membership. After the split, the U.K. will also find itself outside the open skies deals the EU has worked out with countries like the U.S. and Canada. And there will be big question marks regarding the country’s participation in the raft of EU agencies that regulate the sector. Will Downing Street duplicate the European Aviation Safety Agency’s looming rules on drone classification? Will it agree to pollution standards set by the European Maritime Safety Agency? Will it recognize certification of train carriages by the European Union Agency for Railways? The U.K. has put its show on the road, but its destination remains unknown.
Brexit displaces a significant European presence in the British health system: the European Medicines Agency. Other EU countries are already drafting bids to host the EMA, but the loss of British medicines regulators, who carry out almost 30 percent of drug assessments for the agency, will be hard-felt in Europe. Meanwhile, the U.K. will have to find a way to keep more than 10,000 EU doctors working in the National Health Service and 100,000 long-term caregivers for the elderly and disabled — or face losing them. Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt has acknowledged that the U.K. system would “fall over without their help,” but May has opposed unilaterally guaranteeing the rights of EU citizens, preferring to seek “reciprocal rights” from EU countries.
Universities and researchers in the U.K. receive well over €1 billion in EU research funding in a given year, and Brits also make up the lion’s share of researchers participating in Europe’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation projects. While London has given assurances that universities will not lose funding due to Brexit, it’s not clear how it will do that. The U.K. hasn’t ruled out continued participation in EU research programs or the popular Erasmus group of student exchange programs. Still, some 15 percent of U.K. university researchers come from the EU27 and could be affected by any change to the rights of EU citizens in the country. The EU also has limited powers to influence the effects on undergraduate, vocational and school education, since much of the European-level cooperation is voluntary and sits outside EU legislation.
Fears that Brexit could lead to a tech talent flight have been eased by recent announcements from Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon and Apple that they will continue to invest in the U.K. However, a brain drain can’t be ruled out if immigration controls are tightened. Startups taking root in the U.K. will also be keen to know whether they can access the continental markets London is leaving behind. And there are key regulatory questions to be answered about data flows and whether British tourists and their EU counterparts will still be able to enjoy one popular Brussels policy: the abolition of mobile roaming rates.
Compiled by Sara Stefanini and Joshua Posaner.
British Prime Minister Theresa May will trigger Article 50 Wednesday. There’s no going back — negotiations will soon commence.
Across the table from the British delegation, led by May and Brexit Secretary David Davis, will be the European Commission’s Michel Barnier. But behind Barnier and the Commission are 27 separate member states.
POLITICO has spoken to officials from each country, familiar with their government’s preparations for Brexit. There is a remarkable consensus about the importance of guaranteeing citizens’ rights and of the U.K. meeting its existing obligations to the EU budget framework. However, there is also a wide range of niche interests and national red lines that could turn these fiendishly complex talks on their head.
Let the three-dimensional chess begin.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, EU budget
Austria will take over the rotating presidency of the Council of the EU in the second half of 2018. That means the country will have a central role to play in the negotiations, something Sebastian Kurz, Austria’s foreign affairs and Europe minister, raised during his trip to London at the end of March.
Safeguarding the rights of the 25,000 Austrian citizens living in the U.K. will be one of Austria’s top priorities. Another top priority is making sure that the remaining EU members who pay into the budget do not have to cover the multi-billion euro gap left by the U.K.’s exit. Instead, Austria wants to take the opportunity to make the EU leaner and fitter, according to Kurz. Ideas include reforming the way the Commission works, by halving the number of Commissioners to 14.
Hard or soft? Medium hard.

Priorities: Trade with U.K., security
Belgian industry — especially in the Flemish north, which accounts for more than 80 percent of its exports to the U.K. — has a lot riding on future trade relations. Britain is the fourth most important trading partner for Belgium, after Germany, France and the Netherlands, and accounted for 8.8 percent of all exports in 2015, according to National Bank figures. Exports are especially important to the chemical industry, industrial machinery and textiles, all of which will be high on Belgium’s agenda in the trade discussions.
In its recent struggle with terrorism, Belgium is also counting on the U.K. to continue sharing intelligence.
As one of the six founding nations and the seat of the European capital, Belgium loves the union. Prime Minister Charles Michel’s office stressed the need for EU countries to unite in their stance on the negotiations and stand behind the EU’s accomplishments. He also stressed that the U.K.’s divorce must be finalized before trade talks begin. But Michel could face pressure from his coalition partner, the Flemish-nationalist N-VA party, which is far more “euro-realist” and wants trade talks to start sooner.
Hard or soft? Soft-ish. Michel has pushed for what he calls “smart Brexit.”

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, good relations with Germany
Brexit is not high on the Bulgarian political agenda and Boyko Borisov, the likely incoming premier, will almost certainly fall in line behind his ally German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Sofia’s priority is to protect the rights of its workers and residents in the U.K. The numbers of these Bulgarian citizens in Britain are unclear, as much of the work is seasonal or ad-hoc. But the total is estimated to be more than 60,000 people, not including students.
Bulgarians are a small community compared with the Poles, and the Visegrad Group of Warsaw, Prague, Bratislava and Budapest is expected to take the lead in negotiations over migrants. The number of Bulgarian workers is also far higher in Italy and Spain and they present more of a strategic priority than those in Britain.
Borisov, who is expected to return to the premiership after Sunday’s elections, has also “welcomed” applications from British residents seeking citizenship, although that is still difficult to obtain. There are some 7,000 Britons in Bulgaria. Many of them are pensioners and retirees who have retired to the sun or who have invested in holiday homes.
Last year, Borisov called Brexit a “bad day” for Europe. But in a sign that Bulgaria will hold a united front among the EU27, Borisov insisted that there could be no talks of a “special status” for the U.K. “Those would rip the union apart,” he said.
Hard or soft? As hard as Germany.

Priorities: Defense and security
The EU’s newest member (it joined in 2013) has a long history with the U.K. It was the British government which led negotiations to end the conflicts that engulfed Yugoslavia in the 1990s and continued to push the enlargement agenda for countries in the region.
For Croats, the U.K.’s departure is seen primarily through the lens of security. They want to keep the U.K. as engaged as possible in the EU’s security agenda, not least due to fears of Russian and Turkish encroachment into the region. After accession, around 150,000 Croats left the country, but they mainly went to Ireland rather than the U.K., meaning that unlike some new accession states, the Croatian government isn’t too concerned about its diaspora.
Andrej Plenković, the prime minister, has also said that while he regrets the departure of the U.K., it should be seen as an opportunity to overhaul the way the EU functions. Plenković was heavily involved in his country’s accession to the bloc, so knows the EU treaties inside out. He’s also close to the European People’s Party hierarchy, so will tow the Merkel line.
Hard or soft? Medium-hard.

Priorities: Future of U.K. military bases, tourism, immigration
Cyprus considers itself the third most affected EU country, after Ireland (the border) and Spain (Gibraltar.) Britain’s military bases in Cyprus cover one percent of its land including villages where Cypriots live. Their fate will be a key question for the government. Cyprus also depends heavily on Britain for tourists, and Britain is the top destination for Cypriot university students and exports.
Given all of this, Cyprus favors as close a relationship and as soft a break as possible. One Cypriot official hinted that issues like trade relationships would at least partly have to be discussed before Brexit is final — a break with the majority EU27 stance.
Hard or soft? As soft as possible.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, trade
In January, Interior Minister Milan Chovanec was reported to be breaking ranks with other EU countries, saying that Prague should “undertake an independent initiative” and not wait for a U.K.-EU deal. But that is not the government position, which stresses EU unity as a core value.
On the issue of timing between the Brexit deal and the trade talks, Prague is in line with the Commission and member states who want to deal with trade only after the divorce settlement is concluded. “Although an agreement on a future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU is, from a long-term perspective, a key part of the process, it should be preceded by an agreement on the basic outline of the conditions for U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union,” the leaders of Czech parties represented in Parliament said in a joint statement last month.
In Prague, a cabinet-level Brexit task force has been set up and the country is getting ready for Article 50.
Hard or soft? Soft, according to Czech diplomats.

Priorities: Integrity of single market, agricultural trade
Denmark has long been a close ally of the British within the EU. But when it comes to Brexit, Danish companies have emphasized the importance of a level playing field to their government, according to a government official familiar with the country’s preparations for the negotiations.
Denmark’s high-end export goods — be it furniture, pharmaceuticals, furs or meat — are produced to tough environmental, labor and consumer standards, and the country considers the EU to have “raised the floor” to a Danish level of regulation, allowing the country to stay competitive. The Danes’ chief priority for Brexit, therefore, is to avoid a situation in which British companies are able to bypass EU regulations but retain good access to the single market, undercutting Danish goods.
There are also hopes that tariffs on agricultural products can be lowered in any eventual free trade agreement. Britain is the country’s third-biggest export destination for the nationally important pork sector.
Danes support the need to settle the divorce first, prioritizing the rights of EU citizens, the U.K.’s borders and its financial obligations, the government official said.
Copenhagen is also conscious that to succeed Brexit talks need to be conducted in a way that allows the U.K. and EU27 nations to sell the deal to populations at home. Even if the settlement is tough for the U.K., the Danes will urge against talk of punishment. “I don’t think anyone would have any wish to complicate May’s life,” the official said.
Hard or soft? “Middle of the road,” according to a government official.

Priorities: Open trade for London-based Estonian companies, defense
According to MEP Kaja Kallas, the U.K. has a friend in Estonia, a country that would regularly line up with the Brits in EU discussions on business regulation and internal market policy.
Estonians want a workable relationship with the U.K., not least because of the number of Estonian tech firms, such as Transferwise, who now have extensive operations in London.
Estonia is also playing host to a number of British soldiers, there as part of a NATO deployment. Estonians will want the U.K. to remain as closely engaged in the bloc’s defense activities as possible, at a time of rising tensions with Moscow.
There is no major difference between the Reform/Center Parties on Brexit.
Hard or soft? Soft.

Priorities: Unity of EU27
Like many of its northern European neighbors, the Finnish government is especially sad to see the U.K. go.
A traditional ally on the free-trading, low regulation wing of the EU, Britain is also an important trading partner. “But they used to be more important. Finland is more global now,” a Finnish government official familiar with the country’s preparations for the negotiations said. At the turn of the century, the U.K. was the second largest export destination, mostly for paper and petroleum. Now it sits sixth on the list, and Finland exports as much to China as it does to Britain.
The diminishing importance of the partnership means that Finland will be relatively agnostic in Brexit negotiations and willing to go along with the majority view of the EU27. “We will not be the ones shouting out, ‘we are here, do this do that.’ We don’t have any special requests,” the official told POLITICO. “Our special, special wish is that there is unity among the EU27.”
“The Finnish government is very clear that the four freedoms are vital for the European Union. We want win-win, cooperation. But it can never be the same as with a member country. The four freedoms are not going to be put into a puzzle and taken away somehow,” the official told POLITICO, following consultation with colleagues in Brussels and Helsinki.
Hard or soft? Hard (reluctantly).

Priorities: Avoid contagion, avoid regulatory competition, preserve EU manufacturers
A senior EU diplomat said France would defend “systemic” interests in the Brexit talks. That means avoiding any disintegration of the European system or contagion of Brexit to other countries.
“If the Brexit arrangement is ill-conceived, it can lead to dislocation,” the diplomat said. France also has a clear interest in keeping regulatory standards the same after Brexit. “In many areas, we have rules of competition, so we will be firm with the U.K. to avoid any regulatory competition,” the diplomat said.
France is also focused on the future of European manufacturers such as Airbus, where “the entire economic model is based on the most complete fluidity of composite materials ever,” the diplomat said. Fisheries is also a matter of concern to the French.
Hard or soft? Hard on the substance.

Priorities: Integrity of the single market
The German position in a nutshell: “No cherry-picking.” (“Keine Rosinenpickerei.”)
Merkel first mentioned the mantra in a speech immediately after the U.K. referendum, and the chancellor and her senior officials have since made sure to bring it up at every opportunity.
“If it turns out to be possible [for the U.K.] to get full access to the single market, if you can pick certain things, then the single market as such will be very quickly at risk … because every country will want to cherry-pick,” Merkel told business representatives in January.
Across party lines in Berlin, there is a strong backlash against what officials perceive as British demands for getting the benefits from the EU’s movement of services, goods, capital, but doing away with the free movement of workers. So far, fears that other EU27 states will copy the Brits and start asking for special deals is greater than the fear the impact a “hard Brexit” could have on the German economy.
Officials’ resolve is strengthened by advice from their economic aides who believe Britain will be far worse off than the rest of the EU after leaving. “The EU-27, with Germany, France and Italy, is a trade giant like the U.S. or China,” an advisor said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “Britain by itself will play one league below that, with countries like Canada. When was the last time you saw someone being intimidated by Canada’s trade strength?”
After May’s confirmation of a hard Brexit stance, Berlin will take the British prime minister at face value and regard the upcoming negotiations as talks over a trade agreement with a third country. Increasingly officials believe it’s virtually impossible for the U.K. and the EU to strike a deal within two years.
Hard or soft? Hard.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights
Greece is keeping its Brexit cards close to its chest.
The Greek government has yet to making any public statements or announce an official line on Brexit. Athens says that is waiting for London to formally trigger Article 50 and only then “all assignments, roles, priorities…will be gradually unfolded, in cooperation, of course, with the Commission’s special task force,” a Greek diplomat said.
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras met with May at December’s European Council meeting but the topic of the discussion was Cyprus (where London is one of the guarantors) and not Brexit, a Greek official explained.
Hard or soft? Unclear.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, EU funding
Hungary is one of Britain’s closest allies among the 27.
“The sovereignty camp has lost its loudest voice,” said Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó at an international conference at the beginning of the month, where he also stressed that Budapest prefers a soft Brexit. “We reject the approach according to which the British must be punished; their decision must be respected, even if it would have been in Hungary’s interests for Great Britain to remain a member of the European Union,” he said.
One of Hungary’s main priorities is defending the interests of Hungarian citizens working in the U.K. “The government wants to see the introduction of a mechanism that would ‘automatically’ renew the working permits of Hungarian nationals in Britain after it leaves the EU,” Gergely Gulyás, deputy head of the ruling Fidesz party, said at a press conference last year.
Hungary is also interested in a financial settlement that softens, as much as possible, the negative impact that Britain’s exit will have on EU funds, a Hungarian official said.
In terms of the negotiation strategy, Budapest will not be unveiling its position on how to sequence the divorce settlement and trade talks as their priority is unity with other EU countries, the official stressed.
Hard or soft? Soft.

Priorities: Protect peace in Northern Ireland, preserve Common Travel Area
Dublin’s foremost aims are to protect peace in Northern Ireland and avoid damaging trade between the highly interconnected U.K. and Irish economies.
The complex and contested border between the republic and Northern Ireland has grown largely invisible in recent years. Any return to a noticeable division could be destabilizing. Dublin wants to maintain the free movement across the two islands that existed before the EU was founded, and for the ultimate deal to explicitly guarantee easy EU accession should Northern Ireland democratically opt to unite with Ireland in the future.
People living in the North, which voted to remain within the EU in June’s referendum, can claim Irish or U.K. nationality, or both. “We did not vote to leave the European Union and we must protect our peace process. We cannot have a situation where people on our island, potentially citizens of Ireland, can be impacted by virtue of a decision taken in the United Kingdom,” European Affairs Minister Dara Murphy told POLITICO.
Dublin has undertaken a diplomatic blitz ahead of the negotiations, sending delegations to every member state in the EU. Murphy emphasized that despite its close relationship with the U.K., Ireland is firmly on the side of the EU regarding Brexit. “Pro-EU sentiment in Ireland is exceptionally strong,” Murphy said. “We are on the EU side of the table completely.” However, Murphy added that “every element of Brexit is not welcome,” so the Irish will be a strong voice for a low-impact solution.
Hard or soft? As soft as possible.

Priorities: Citizens rights, financial services, EU budget, future of EU agencies in the U.K.
Rome’s major concern is citizens’ rights, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni made clear when he met May in London in February. “Their rights will be respected and they will be treated well,” Gentiloni said.
Financial services are also relevant since they could be exposed to an aggressive British fiscal policy, according to an official at the foreign ministry, who listed Italy’s priorities as the future of the EU budget and the future of EU agencies now in the U.K., such as the European Medicines Agency, which Milan hopes to host after Brexit.
Rome wants to have Brexit divorce terms agreed first and then discuss trade talks only afterward. “This sequencing is a common line for member states,” one Italian diplomat said.
When Gentiloni visited May, he argued against “disruptive talks.” Italian diplomats agree the approach should be to encourage the EU27 to stay rather than any attempt to scare them from to leaving.
The Brexit dossier will be handled by DG EU at the foreign ministry and by the sherpa Marco Piantini, an official said.
Hard or soft? Soft.

Priorities: Trade, Citizens’ rights, EU funding
Latvia is primarily concerned about preserving trade relations with the U.K. “The U.K. has been an active promoter of liberal market values, we are a small and open economy but we see the value of an open market,” Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Latvia’s Finance minister told POLITICO.
After the EU’s 2008 economic crisis, the U.K. has been one of the most active countries in the EU “helping to strengthen the single market,” she said.
“After the crisis, you could feel a sense of protectionism,” she said. “The U.K. has always been the one who’s been pushing further single market rules. We will miss them.”
Reizniece-Ozola also said the rights of more than 80,000 Latvian citizens living in the U.K. were important in their Brexit strategy.
The other red line will be EU-wide Cohesion Funds, Reizniece-Ozola said. “We are recipients of these funds, including on business, education, science programs, and we and would not like to see them reduced.” According to the European commission, Latvia has been allocated €5.63 billion from the European Structural and Investment Funds, for the period 2014-2020, covering areas such as research and low-carbon economy. “The reduction of these funds in case of Brexit should not hinder the competitiveness of Europe,” Reizniece-Ozola said.
Hard or soft? Soft, but hard on funding.

Priorities: EU funding, in particular cohesion funds, citizens’ rights
The issues at stake for Lithuania will be the rights of their citizens living in the U.K., EU finances, home affairs, and security and defense, a senior diplomat from the Baltic country in Brussels said.
“The country has about 200,000 citizens (eight percent of the total population) living in the U.K.,” the diplomat said, and “we are still a net receiver” of EU funding.
The diplomat added her country would also need to “preserve cooperation” with the U.K. on home affairs, internal security and justice, and defense matters.
Hard or soft? Soft, but hard on funding.

Priorities: Its financial center
Luxembourg wants a slice of London’s business post-Brexit and wants to ensure that the U.K. financial sector continues to play by the regulatory rules so that its own companies stay competitive.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Jean Asselborn outlined his government’s position in Luxembourg’s national parliament on March 21, stressing the need to protect its financial sector — with its $3 trillion asset management industry — and the rights of British citizens working in the country.
The small country is also the eurozone’s largest hub for international wealth management and private banks, managing over $400 billion in assets. That needs to be protected, Asselborn said, stressing “we will not accept any cheap compromises.” To guarantee that protection, a “system of equivalences” — or mutually agreed regulatory standards — is vital to guarantee that “financial services access the European market…[This] is so important and we must ensure that this system is adapted to the new realities after Brexit,” he said.
Hard or soft? Hard on finances.

Priorities: EU27 unity, making the most of the Brexit opportunity
As a member of the Commonwealth and former colony, Malta has a long history with the U.K., reflected in the fact English is widely-spoken. There’s a strong cultural affinity for Britain, too, although the Maltese see an opportunity in Brexit.
Given its climate and language, it’s well placed to poach business from London, specifically financial services firms that will need to open subsidiaries inside the EU.
“It is a historical irony but it is also a sad process. The U.K. was also one of the most supportive countries of our joining the EU. It is another irony that we are now piloting a process to let go of a country that let us in,” Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said in late January, reflecting on his country’s term holding the rotating EU presidency at a time of crisis.
Hard or soft? As hard as the EU27 wants it to be.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, trade EU budget
The Netherlands is currently between governments due to the recent elections and so no one was available to comment on the national strategy. However, Anne Mulder, the Europe spokesman from the party of incumbent Prime Minister Mark Rutte, said it is crucial to correct “Alice in Wonderland… totally unrealistic expectations in the U.K.” towards the Brexit deal.
“We are saying this as a friend,” Mulder said. “They are totally not prepared… They don’t have the people to negotiate trade deals. So they are underestimating the situation… They need to be brought back down to earth.”
A report by two lawmakers on the Dutch position is working its way through parliament. This draft position recommends: guaranteeing the rights of Dutch citizens in the U.K.; protecting trade (the Netherlands has the highest level of exports to the U.K. of all EU countries apart from Ireland); involving the Dutch parliament in the negotiations; that the U.K. should meet EU financial contributions to which it has already agreed; and that the nuclear power treaty Euratom should be kept separate from Brexit.
However, Mulder characterized the Dutch stance as soft Brexit. “We have huge trade relations so a soft Brexit. We don’t have to punish them because they are punishing themselves,” Mulder told POLITICO, with a laugh. “They don’t need extra punishment. They are shooting their own foot.”
Hard or soft? Hard with a soft center.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, EU funding
Poland’s two main Brexit concerns are people and money — in that order.
The British government estimates more than 800,000 Polish-born people live in the U.K., making them the largest foreign-born group in Britain and Polish the second-most spoken language.
That has created an enormous incentive for the Warsaw government to watch out for compatriots in the U.K. — people who can vote in Polish elections, send money back to the country and who still have families in Poland. When Jarosław Kaczyński, leader of Poland’s ruling Law and Justice party, met with May last week, migrants were the main topic of discussion.
However, Warsaw has made clear that it will not hold separate talks with the U.K. on the issue.
It’s also unclear just how many of those Poles will get to stay. About 400,000 have been in the country less than five years — too short to become permanent residents under current rules. Although Warsaw says it will stick up for their rights, the Polish government is counting on as many as 200,000 people returning from Britain: something that could boost Poland’s economy.
Then there’s the money. Poland is the largest recipient of EU structural funds, and the worry is that a post-Brexit budget will be significantly smaller.
The U.K. may have some room for maneuver with Poland thanks to the country’s worries about Russia and the U.K.’s role as one of Europe’s most muscular military powers. But so far, on Brexit, Warsaw isn’t breaking ranks with the rest of the EU.
Hard or soft? Harder than the U.K. would like to think.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, defense and security, EU budget
Portugal is strongly pro-European as well as Atlanticist. The loss of the EU’s pre-eminent Atlantic power leaves it feeling vulnerable. “We absolutely must preserve the balance between continental and Atlantic factors which are strategic for countries like Portugal,” Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva told diplomats recently. Reciprocal rights for EU and U.K. citizens “must be at the top of the negotiating priorities,” State Secretary for European Affairs Margarida Marques told POLITICO. “We also need stability in other areas, such as the union’s financial framework.”
Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa spoke with POLITICO March 22. “There will be a bill,” he said. “They have existing commitments through to 2020, at least. The bill is a decision on quantity. The future relationship is a decision on quality.”
Santos Silva said that Portugal lines up “unreservedly” with the Commission and states calling for unity among the 27.  In domestic and international deal-making, Santos Silva and Prime Minister António Costa, have proven themselves to be astute negotiators. They’ve been building close ties with other Southern European governments. With a stable government enjoying broad support at home and a wide degree of national consensus on Europe, Portugal might punch above its weight in the negotiations.
However, the country is vulnerable to economic shocks that could undermine its position.
Hard or soft? Preferring soft, preparing for hard.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, EU funding, good ties with U.K.
Romania’s negotiating strategy is focused on ensuring that there will be no discrimination between EU citizens (or between EU citizens and U.K. nationals) during the divorce, according to government officials. This is a core principle that Romania wants to see applied both during the withdrawal agreement and for any future relations.
Like others, Bucharest wants issues negotiated in a certain order: first focused on preserving the rights of EU citizens and dealing with the Brexit bill. Then the EU should informally explore how the EU-U.K. relation can transition to a future relationship. “The question of acquired rights for EU and U.K. nationals and the financial settlement should be addressed at the beginning of the negotiations, and only after sufficient progress will be made on these aspects, an informal scoping of the future relations could start,” European Affairs Minister Ana Birchall told POLITICO. However, she said, “even the softest Brexit will be a hard Brexit,” adding that U.K.’s decision to leave the single market and customs union “does not seem to make it possible to replicate the status quo.”
Hard or soft? As soft as possible, but accepts hard most likely.

Priorities: Citizens’ right, good ties with the U.K, EU funding
Slovakia made news in September when Prime Minister Robert Fico went on the record in an interview with the Financial Times saying that the EU will make Brexit “very painful.”
The bone of contention, in this case, is also the rights of EU citizens living in the U.K. Currently, an estimated 75,000 Slovaks live and work in the U.K.
“All we want is to be treated the same [as British workers],” Fico said. “If that happens, then this divorce could be a success. But even then it will be more painful for the U.K.,” he said. “Even if it is the fifth-biggest economy in the world — I understand their financial importance — this will still be very painful for the U.K.”
“It would be very wrong to have the EU emerge from the talks weakened and Britain strengthened,” the prime minister later told Slovak media. “That would be the worst example set for each and every single country for EU, where public pressure to leave the EU might be felt.”
At a more recent meeting with David Davis, Fico explained that his hard tone doesn’t mean his country has chosen a hard Brexit since he wishes the two countries will remain good partners and maintain high-quality relations.
Hard or soft? Soft but strict on citizens’ rights.

Priorities: EU funding, citizens’ rights
For Ljubljana, there is one over-riding priority — ensuring the U.K. pays its dues.
British liabilities within the EU’s 2014-2020 budget settlement is not about politics for Slovenia, national officials said, but cold hard cash that has been committed to the country and is already being spent. A net beneficiary from the EU, Slovenia was allocated more than €3 billion for 2014-2020, money that is being spent on upgrading the railway network, motorways, waste management and numerous other educational, research and environmental projects.
“Our biggest concern is to get a deal on the EU budget,” said a Slovenian government official. “For us, this is a legal question.” Slovenia has aligned with its biggest trading partner, Germany, and will side with Berlin in emphasizing the importance of a “non-fragmented” single market. “That means no cherry-picking,” the official said. The country will be firm that the four freedoms have to be respected, and doesn’t expect to have trouble persuading EU27 partners to support its position.
However, as a smaller country — population two million — that benefits significantly from being in the EU, it will be among a group of net beneficiary nations lending moral force to the EU’s argument that the U.K. must pay up. Ljubljana rejects any characterization of hard versus soft Brexit, and hopes to remain a good partner to the U.K. after Brexit, officials said. However, its stance is at odds with U.K. hopes to avoid a big divorce bill and to secure generous single market access, so could be characterized as on the hard side.
Hard or soft? Hard.

Priorities: Citizens’ rights, commercial agreement, Gibraltar, Scotland
As a firm pro-European country, Spain’s goal is for the EU to overcome the Brexit trauma in the best possible shape, meaning Madrid won’t break the negotiating discipline of the 27 member states and the priorities of Barnier’s team. “The most important interest now is the unity of Europe and the continuity of the integration process,” Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said in an interview with El País, adding that the goal should be to achieve the best possible relations between the U.K. and the EU, while making it clear that you can’t be better “outside than inside” the Union.
Spain also has a handful of particular priorities. Firstly, Madrid favors a quick, reciprocal, all-encompassing deal on citizens’ rights. There are more British citizens living in Spain — around 300,000 officially registered — than Spaniards in the U.K., a unique case in the EU, and around 18 million Britons travel to Spain every year. That’s a juicy source of income the country would like to maintain.
Secondly, Madrid would like the negotiations to end up with an as-good-as-possible commercial deal between the U.K. and the EU. The U.K. is the most important recipient of Spanish foreign investments and Spain’s fourth largest trading partner. Moreover, many of the biggest Spanish companies in the UK, like Banco Santander, Telefónica or Iberdrola, work in sectors which are highly sensitive to public regulation and therefore could potentially suffer heavy losses from Brexit.
Thirdly, Gibraltar and Scotland: Spain wants Gibraltar’s case not to be addressed at all in the Brexit negotiations so that whatever happens with the British overseas territory is negotiated bilaterally between London and Madrid. In the case of Scotland, Spain’s priority is to make sure that it doesn’t get any special treatment and leaves the EU in the same conditions as the whole of the U.K., so as not to encourage separatists in Catalonia.
Hard or soft? Soft.

Priorities: EU budget, EU27 unity
Stockholm is determined that the cost of Brexit does not land on the tables of Swedish taxpayers.
Officials calculate that the EU budget will take a 13 percent hit from the loss of the U.K., a net contributor, and a priority from the Brexit talks and their aftermath will be first to ensure the U.K. pays any obligations — Foreign Minister Margot Wallström told the BBC in February that Britain had to “take the consequences” of Brexit — and then at the next budget round, to lower the overall EU budget so that Sweden and other member states don’t contribute more to make up for the loss of British cash.
Finance Minister Magdalena Andersson has spoken of the need for “as soft a Brexit as possible” and Sweden wants good terms with its fourth biggest trading partner. But while a good trade deal is hoped for, Sweden — historically a close ally of the U.K. within the EU — will not let its economic interests trump EU27 unity.
“The political project of the EU comes first,” a government official familiar with the country’s preparations for Brexit told POLITICO. Stockholm had hoped for the U.K. to stay in the customs union and was surprised when May ruled out full membership in her Lancaster House speech in January, the official said.
The U.K. might have hoped for special treatment from Sweden, but Europe Minister Ann Linde has gone on the record to say that Sweden will not “step outside the EU27” to support British positions during the negotiation.
Hard or soft? Medium hard.
Kalina Oroschakoff, Laurens Cerulus, Christian Oliver, Harry Cooper, Sara Stefanini, Jacopo Barigazzi, Maïa de La Baume, Janosch Delcker, Florian Eder, Naomi O’Leary, Bjarke Smith-Meyer, Jan Cienski, Paul Ames, Ryan Heath, Anca Gurzu, Carmen Paun and Diego Torres contributed to this article.   
The U.S. Senate voted overwhelmingly on Tuesday to admit the small Balkan nation of Montenegro to the NATO military alliance, in what is seen as a crucial step in pushing back against Russian meddling in Eastern Europe.
The vote, by 97-2, now sends the defense treaty to U.S. President Donald Trump, whose top aides have expressed strong support for the move over fierce objections from the Kremlin.
The treaty was originally expected to be ratified during the final days of the Obama administration. But the vote was delayed by Sens. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah).
The two were the only senators to vote against the treaty.
“I don’t see how the accession of Montenegro, a country with a population smaller than most congressional districts, and a military smaller than the police force of the District of Columbia, is beneficial enough that we should share an agreement for collective defense,” Lee said on the Senate floor Tuesday.
The vast majority of their colleagues, however, see the further expansion of the Western military alliance as a means to deter more destabilizing moves such as Moscow’s annexation of the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea in 2014 and its support for rebels in eastern Ukraine.
If approved by the full alliance and Montenegro’s parliament, all of NATO’s current 28 members would pledge to come to the country’s aid if it is invaded.
Only Spain has yet to approve Montenegro’s membership.
“I want to send a clear signal to our friends in Montenegro and to the Russians about how we feel,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), a major supporter of Montenegro’s membership, said recently.
Russia opposes the move and is suspected of fomenting an attempted coup in Montenegro last October.
“The Russian attitude to the further eastward enlargement of NATO is well-known, this attitude is negative,” Kremlin press secretary Dmitry Peskov said last month.
Paul’s efforts to stall the vote sparked strong emotions. Earlier this month Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) accused him of “working for Vladimir Putin.”
“You are achieving the objectives of trying to dismember this small country, which has already been the subject of an attempted coup,” McCain said on the Senate floor.
Although some White House officials reportedly oppose NATO expansion, Trump is widely expected to sign the treaty upon the advice of Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
Trump could refuse to sign the treaty but rejecting a measure with nearly unanimous bipartisan support would come at a high political cost.
Montenegro has spent over seven years applying for NATO membership. But NATO membership is a highly controversial issue in Montenegro. An opinion poll conducted in December 2016 has only 39.5 percent of Montenegrins in favor of NATO membership and 39.7 against. Other opinion polls have suggested similar margins.
Russia has taken advantage of this division and is accused of bankrolling Montenegro’s Democratic Front, a stridently anti-NATO party that won 20 percent of the vote in last year’s parliamentary elections.
An investigation by Montenegro’s special prosecutor resulted in a formal accusation that Russia had been involved in a “coup attempt” back in October. According to the Balkan country’s foreign minister, the U.S. and the U.K. provided substantial help in discovering and confirming Russia’s role.
LONDON — Theresa May will pledge to fight with “fierce determination” for every single person in the U.K. — including the millions of EU nationals worried about their future status — when she triggers Article 50 Wednesday, formally starting the process of Britain’s exit from the European Union.
Tim Barrow, the U.K.’s ambassador to the EU, will deliver the Article 50 letter in person to European Council President Donald Tusk by lunchtime in Brussels.
In a statement in the House of Commons timed to coincide with the historic letter’s delivery, May will tell MPs that the formal triggering of Article 50, which begins a two-year period of negotiation and ratification, represents a “time to come together.”
“When I sit around the negotiating table in the months ahead, I will represent every person in the whole United Kingdom — young and old, rich and poor, city, town, country and all the villages and hamlets in between. And yes, those EU nationals who have made this country their home,” she will tell MPs, according to a prepared extract of the speech shared by Downing Street.
“It is my fierce determination to get the right deal for every single person in this country,” she will say, according to the prepared text.
May’s decision to highlight the importance of around 3 million EU nationals estimated to be living in the U.K. confirms her government’s willingness to secure an early deal on the issue of so-called reciprocal rights, guaranteeing the future residence and legal status of EU nationals in Britain, and British nationals in EU countries.
The issue is a priority for many other EU countries. But May’s hopes of securing a deal prior to Article 50 were rebuffed by EU leaders, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who insisted nothing can be discussed until the U.K. formally notifies the EU of its intention to leave.
Tusk, Merkel and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker all spoke to May in separate phone calls Tuesday evening.
“They agreed that a strong EU was in everyone’s interests and that the U.K. would remain a close and committed ally,” a Downing Street spokesperson said. “They also agreed on the importance of entering into negotiations in a constructive and positive spirit, and of ensuring a smooth and orderly exit process.”
May will discuss the contents of her Article 50 letter with her cabinet on Wednesday morning, before taking the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions session at midday. Immediately after, she will deliver her statement to MPs.
“We all want to see a Britain that is stronger than it is today. We all want a country that is fairer so that everyone has the chance to succeed,” she will say, according to the prepared text. “We all want a nation that is safe and secure for our children and grandchildren. We all want to live in a truly global Britain that gets out and builds relationships with old friends and new allies around the world.
“These are the ambitions of this government’s plan for Britain. Ambitions that unite us, so that we are no longer defined by the vote we cast, but by our determination to make a success of the result.
“We are one great union of people and nations with a proud history and a bright future. And, now that the decision has been made to leave the EU, it is time to come together.”
Tusk will deliver a statement immediately after the letter is delivered on Wednesday afternoon, and is expected to respond formally within 48 hours.
The European Council will then hold a summit on April 29 to finalize the guidelines for the EU’s Brexit negotiation position. The European Commission will draw up more detailed plans in the form of “Council directives,” which will be confirmed by another meeting of the Council, predicted by EU diplomats to take place in either May or June, after which the main negotiations can begin.
Michel Barnier, the European Commission’s chief Brexit negotiator, said it will be possible to reach an agreement in principle on citizens’ rights by the end of the year, according to two lobbyists who met with him Tuesday.
The two represent advocacy groups for the rights of Britons living in the EU as well as EU citizens living in the U.K.
“We were extremely happy to hear that we’ll be the first priority … in the negotiations, and that is ahead of budget and borders,” said Jane Golding from British in Europe, a coalition of 12 citizens groups in the EU.
Golding, who lives in Germany, said Barnier had indicated that an agreement could be reached in principle by the end of the year.
“Of course, there are a lot of complex details involved in guaranteeing the rights we currently have so that would leave the whole of 2018 to deal with that,” she added.
Some officials in the European Commission and the European Council were hoping for an agreement as early as this summer to avoid inconvenience on both sides of the English Channel. Still, the participants in Tuesday’s meeting appeared satisfied to have had the conversation with Barnier.
“We very grateful that we had this first meeting,” said Anne-Laure Donskoy, co-founder of The3million, which represents EU citizens in Britain. “He is aiming for exactly the same thing [as us] which is an agreement, at least in principle, by the end of the year,” she said. “We don’t know if it will come up earlier — if it does, all the better.”
The representatives of the advocacy groups also met with officials from the Commission’s employment and justice departments, according to Donskoy.
Barnier gave his support to the group in a tweet after the meeting. “Brexit made EU citizens worry about their future in EU27 and UK. EU will be firm on their rights @The3Million #citizensfirst.”
London will formally notify the EU of its intention to leave on Wednesday, triggering Article 50 and the start of divorce proceedings.
The issues to be negotiated on the free movement of people post-Brexit are complex. Britons living abroad could face different rules in different countries after withdrawal from the bloc, warned Liz Collett, director of Migration Policy Institute Europe in Brussels. “While there is an EU-wide right to family reunification, for example, each member state may impose language tests or minimum salary requirements on non-EU nationals in an effort to ensure robust integration and self-sufficiency of the immigrant population. Post-Brexit, U.K. nationals may well find themselves subject to these different rules,” she wrote in a post on the institute’s website.
Golding said that, during Tuesday’s meeting, Barnier didn’t address specific details such as mutual recognition of university degrees or pensions for Britons living abroad.
Members of the Scottish parliament on Tuesday voted in favor of First Minister Nicola Sturgeon’s call for a second independence referendum to be held between autumn next year and spring 2019.
Lawmakers at the parliament in Edinburgh backed a motion asking for a mandate to begin the process of holding another vote on independence by 69 votes to 59 votes, the Guardian reported.
It allows Sturgeon, the leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP), to hold discussions with the U.K. government on a Section 30 order, the legal mechanism for triggering an independence referendum.
On Wednesday, Sturgeon is expected to write to Theresa May to inform her of the result of the vote and to ask for formal talks. That’s the same day the British government will formally trigger Article 50, which sets in motion leaving the EU.
The Scottish parliament debate started last week but a vote postponed after the London terror attack last Wednesday.
A majority of Scots (55.3 percent) rejected independence in a 2014 referendum, but Sturgeon thinks she can win the vote this time after the U.K.’s EU referendum last June in which Scotland’s electorate backed Remain by 62 percent to 38 percent.
Theresa May on Tuesday said a newspaper front page that prompted outrage and accusations of sexism was “a bit of fun.”
The Daily Mail was sharply criticized for its story, which showed the British prime minister and Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon during talks in Glasgow with the headline: “Never mind Brexit, who won Legs-it!”

The prime minister’s official spokesman, James Slack, would not be drawn on the controversy (Slack is a former Mail political editor), saying, “You would not expect me to comment on what newspapers should or should not put on their front pages.”
But May later told the Wolverhampton Express and Star: “As a woman in politics throughout my whole career I have found that very often, what I wear — particularly my shoes — has been an issue that has been looked at rather closely by people.
“Obviously what we do as politicians is what makes a difference to people’s lives. I think that most people concentrate on what we do as politicians. But if people want to have a bit of fun about how we dress, then so be it.”
Sturgeon’s team took a stronger line, with her spokesperson telling reporters the paper was taking Britain “back to the early 1970s.”
“It is slightly surprising that when the first minister of Scotland and the prime minister of the U.K. meet to discuss the key issues of the U.K.’s departure from the EU and giving the people of Scotland a choice over their future that the main focus should be on their legs and what they are wearing,” Sturgeon’s spokesperson said.
“Brexit may risk taking Britain back to the early 1970s, but there is no need for coverage of events to lead the way.”
The leader of the Conservative party in Scotland, Ruth Davidson, was quick to respond to the row with a picture of her legs.

The Mail’s Scottish edition had run a different headline — “Oh so frosty! Secrets of Nicola and PM’s talk-in.”
More than 300 complaints were filed about the piece with the Independents Press Standards Organization.
The Daily Mail’s response to the spat was to tell “po-faced” left-wingers to “get a life” and a sense of humor.
Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the British opposition Labour party, is less popular in the U.K. than U.S. President Donald Trump, according to an opinion poll published Tuesday.
Only 17 percent of the 1,938 people questioned by pollster GfK approve of the Labour leader’s performance, while 18 percent think Trump is doing a good job.
The poll result comes as party documents revealed that the Labour party has lost 10,850 members over the last four weeks, with people citing the party’s approach to Brexit as the main reason for not renewing their subscription.
A party spokesman said Labour does not comment on membership numbers.
The poll also suggests that some 46 percent of respondents approve of Theresa May’s performance as Prime Minister, against 33 percent that disagreed.
Just under half of the respondents (46 percent) think Britain was right to vote for Brexit, while 41 percent disagreed.
Two-thirds of George Osborne’s constituents think he should choose between representing them in parliament and his new job as editor of the Evening Standard, a new poll for campaign organization 38 Degrees found Tuesday.
The poll also found that only 5 percent of the 507 people surveyed think the former chancellor of the exchequer’s new post will have a positive effect.
John Gavin, a resident of Osborne’s Tatton constituency, told 38 Degrees: “I am a Conservative voter, but if he stays I will never vote Conservative again, that’s for sure. It [Osborne’s appointment] has completely eroded my trust in him.”
A corresponding petition on the 38 Degrees website that calls on Osborne to pick one job had received more than 192,000 signatures at 1:30 p.m. on Tuesday.
A spokesperson for Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said Obsorne’s appointment “is yet another example of the establishment revolving door, a closely knit clique who are holding back the British people.”
The German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK) said Britain’s departure from the EU will significantly damage the business of German companies in the U.K., Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported Tuesday.
Close to 1 in 10 German firms plan to withdraw their investments from the U.K. and relocate to Germany or elsewhere within the single market, “despite the fact that the terms of Britain’s departure are not yet known,” DIHK President Eric Schweitzer said, referring to a survey conducted in February among 1,300 German businesses operating in the U.K.
Although most German companies judged the business environment to be “halfway solid,” 40 percent of them said they expected business to decline over the next few months.
“An increase in costs due to customs and taxes, as well as added bureaucracy at the new European border, will have a negative influence on business for both sides,” according to the report, which found that exports to the U.K. had already fallen by 3.5 percent since the Brexit referendum last June.
Britain’s immigration levels will rise if there’s an economic need for them to do so, U.K. Brexit Secretary David Davis told the BBC late Monday.
The government’s immigration policy will prioritize the national interest, “which means that from time to time we will need more, from time to time we will need less” migrants, he said.
Davis also said that while immigration needs to be “back under the control of the U.K. government,” certain industries such as health and social welfare are “dependent on migrants,” and the government needs to “make sure they can do the work.”
The U.K.’s final bill to leave the EU will be “nothing like” the estimated £50 billion European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said Britain would have to pay to settle its financial commitments to the bloc.
He said there had been “no explanation” behind the estimate, and he didn’t think “we’re going to be seeing that sort of money change hands.” But Britain will meet its obligations, “whatever that turns out to be.”
The status of EU citizens and the settlement of the U.K.’s financial obligations to the EU — along with a new external EU border along Northern Ireland — are the EU’s top three negotiation priorities during the Brexit negotiations, according to the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier.
The British government will trigger Article 50 to formally begin the U.K’s divorce proceedings from the EU Wednesday.
After Britain voted for Brexit, a short text almost no one had heard of suddenly became an object of fascination — Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which sets out the procedure for leaving the EU.
Following months of discussion and debate, Prime Minister Theresa May will invoke Article 50 on Wednesday when she formally notifies the EU of Britain’s intention to depart.
Below is an interactive guide to Article 50, with comments from a POLITICO interview with its author — veteran British diplomat Lord Kerr of Kinlochard.
Hover over the highlighted asterisk and numbers to explore the text.

Arnau Busquets Guàrdia and Ginger Hervey contributed to this article.
The European Parliament is seeking a new role: taking a lead in a possible Brexit battle with the U.K.
“The Parliament is ready to play the bad cop,” said Pedro Lopez de Pablo, spokesman for the European People’s Party (EPP), the largest group in the chamber. “We are going to be those who will complain about almost everything.”
Though it is not formally part of the upcoming divorce negotiations, Parliament is ready to disrupt the talks by leaning on its veto power over the Brexit deal if London doesn’t respect the principles the European Union is founded on, officials said.
“The Parliament will be a moral authority on Brexit,” said Jean Arthuis, a French MEP and president of the Budgets Committee. “It will be a tool to keep citizens informed, and nothing is better than public opinion to weigh on governments.”
Since the U.K. is likely to “divide Europeans” in order “to complicate things,” according to Arthuis, “Parliament will have to control the executive power [and] so it is our role to make sure it does.”
While Parliament won’t negotiate any Brexit deal with the European Council or European Commission, MEPs will have to consent to the final withdrawal agreement, giving them veto power.
Furthermore, MEPs can issue non-binding resolutions “on the state of negotiations,” which will allow them to put pressure on the Commission and on EU governments, an official said.
In the past, Parliament has used its veto to scuttle important pieces of legislation, as in 2012 when it rejected the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), an international treaty to crack down on digital piracy.
This week, Parliament is expected to showcase its uncompromising approach toward the U.K. with a resolution that will be finalized after British Prime Minister Theresa May triggers Article 50 to formally exit the EU on Wednesday. MEPs are expected to adopt the resolution at a plenary session in April.
“If the Brits on Wednesday announce that they have no intention to comply with their budget obligations, there will be retaliations,” said an EU official said, referring to the so-called divorce bill.
Such retaliation could include barring the U.K. from the customs union, “which means that they might have to import Parmesan from New Zealand or Canada,” said an EU official.
It might also mean stripping Britain of so-called passporting rights that allow its banks and other financial firms to sell their services throughout the bloc and giving those based in the EU similar access to the U.K.
Though the resolution is still a work in progress, Philippe Lamberts, president of the Greens, said it will urge London to preserve the reciprocity of rights between U.K. and EU citizens, as well as “reassert the conditions of access to the single market,” preserve the Good Friday agreement with Ireland and ensure the U.K. is still bound by European Court of Justice rulings after it leaves the EU.
“The resolution will be firm on the principles but it will not be revenge-driven,” Lamberts said. “It will set the right tone, and send a signal to the U.K. that nobody will benefit more than the other; that we are interdependent.”
Sources say further resolutions are likely to canvass the future status of British MEPs and officials in the EU after Brexit.
Parliament is the most pro-European institution, Lopez de Pablo said, “so it will be very tough,” especially when it comes to “the freedoms included in the treaties,” such as movement of goods, workers, services and capital.
Gianni Pittella, president of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D), said reciprocal rights for U.K. nationals living in the EU and EU citizens in the U.K. is a “pre-condition for starting talks about the future relationship between the U.K and the EU.”
ALDE leader Guy Verhofstadt, who leads the Brexit file for Parliament, won’t be alone in his role as top cop. Parliament has more than 20 people working on Brexit, including Markus Winkler, its main sherpa, Nick Lane, director for Inter-institutional Affairs and Legislative Coordination, as well as Anthony Teasdale, the director general of the European Parliamentary Research Service.
In addition, each of the main pro-European political groups, including the EPP and S&D, have MEPs working on Brexit, including Vice President Esteban González Pons and Elmar Brok, a well-known German MEP. Each of the 21 committee secretariats also has a person in charge of Brexit.
The Parliament has drafted a plethora of documents on the more than 20,000 laws and regulations that will need to be negotiated in the next two years. (Details from 21 different committee reports obtained by POLITICO can be found here.)
Some of the toughest recommendations came from the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, which urged the U.K. to abide by European Court of Justice (ECJ) rulings after it leaves the EU and argued the bloc’s highest court should have its reach extended for a transitional period after Brexit.
That was in response to May’s announcement the U.K. would no longer fall under the jurisdiction of the ECJ. Britain, she said recently, “will not have truly left the European Union if we are not in control of our own laws.”
But while resolutions and recommendations have the power to annoy, Parliament’s greatest weapon remains the veto.
“If there are no agreement or not a consent on the outcomes of the negotiations, there is simply no deal,” said a Commission official. “Everybody has an interest in reaching an agreement in the end.”
Giulia Paravicini contributed to this article.
The man who wrote Article 50 did not imagine his own country would be the one to use it.
Veteran British diplomat John Kerr — now Lord Kerr of Kinlochard — drafted the text that sets out the procedure for leaving the European Union as part of an effort to draw up an EU constitutional treaty in the early 2000s.
That initiative was scuppered by referendum defeats in France and the Netherlands but some elements ended up in the EU’s Lisbon Treaty, which came into force in 2009.
One of the sections pasted across became Article 50, which will be invoked by Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday when she notifies the EU that Britain intends to depart after more than 40 years of membership.
“I don’t feel guilty about inventing the mechanism. I feel very sad about the U.K. using it,” Kerr told POLITICO. “I didn’t think that the United Kingdom would use it.”
After a high-flying career in the Foreign Office that included assignments as Britain’s ambassador to Washington and to the EU, Kerr drew up the text as secretary-general of the European Convention, which was charged with writing the constitutional treaty in 2002 and 2003.
At that time, the rise of Austrian far-right leader Jörg Haider was a big worry for mainstream EU leaders and some southern European EU members had returned to democracy only in recent decades. Kerr imagined that the exit procedure might be triggered after an authoritarian leader took power in a member country and the EU responded by suspending that country’s right to vote on EU decisions.
“It seemed to me very likely that a dictatorial regime would then, in high dudgeon, want to storm out. And to have a procedure for storming out seemed to be quite a sensible thing to do — to avoid the legal chaos of going with no agreement,” Kerr said.
Although he retired from the Foreign Office a decade and a half ago, Kerr remains active in public life. He spoke out against Brexit during last year’s referendum campaign and contributes to debates in the House of Lords.
He has argued publicly — and controversially — that Article 50 is not irrevocable. In other words, during the two-year negotiating period set out in the text, Britain could decide not to leave after all and simply remain an EU member. However, he says he cannot imagine how politics in Britain would allow such a U-turn.
Speaking by telephone from London, Kerr, a Scot in his mid-70s, displayed a sharp mind and dry wit. At one point, he correctly predicted his interviewer’s next question and he joked about his “beautiful prose” in Article 50 — a strictly colorless collection of about 260 words, split into five small sections.
Kerr took up the role as secretary-general to the European Convention, a body chaired by former French President Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, after retiring from the Foreign Office as its top civil servant.
He took a small flat in the picturesque Petit Sablon area of Brussels and set to work in an office at the back of the European Council’s Justus Lipsius building, leading two-dozen staff supporting the convention.
Kerr said he had favored setting out a formal departure procedure partly to undermine an argument made by British opponents of EU membership — even though, he said, their logic didn’t stack up.
“In Britain there was, among Euroskeptics, the theory that one was tied to one’s oar with no escape and rowing to the unknown destination of ever-closer union,” he said. “That Euroskeptic theory was always nonsense because you don’t need a secession article to secede. If you stop paying your subscription, stop attending the meetings, people would notice that you’d left.”
Kerr highlighted two key elements of Article 50 which could play a big role in the negotiations to come.
The process outlined in the text is, he noted, “about divorce … about paying the bills, settling one’s commitments, dealing with acquired rights, thinking about the pensions. It’s not an article about the future relationship.”
However, the article also states that the divorce deal should take account of the “framework” of the future relationship between the EU and the departing country. Kerr said a full agreement covering trade and all other aspects of relations between Britain and the EU could not possibly be concluded in two years but a framework would have to be negotiated.
“Don’t ask me what that framework looks like. Is that another treaty? Is it a European Council Conclusions text? I don’t know what the framework will be but … unless it exists, then the divorce settlement, if there is one, is legally vulnerable — because in order to be ‘taken into account,’ it has to exist,” he said.
That meant, Kerr said, that discussions about the divorce and about the outline of the future relationship would have to take place in parallel.
“I don’t believe that it will be possible for the Commission to insist — and I’m not convinced that they will try to insist — that the money has to be all tied up before one can talk about anything else,” he said. “If I were the British negotiators, I would go clutching this article in my hand and say ‘But hang on, we have to have a framework.’”
Article 50 has been the subject of fierce debate since the Brexit referendum, including in the U.K. Supreme Court. But Kerr said it caused little fuss when it was discussed as part of the European Convention.
“There were plenty of articles which caused tremendous debate. This was not one of them,” he said.
In the Supreme Court case over whether the U.K. parliament had to give its approval before the government could invoke Article 50, both the government and their opponents contended that this notification could not be withdrawn. But Kerr said the view was different on the Continent.
“I think if you ask an EU lawyer, he will tell you straight away that of course it’s not irrevocable,” he said. “And if the issue was decided in a court, it would be decided in the European Court of Justice and it would be found that it is not irrevocable.”
He added: “The rules of the game in the EU are that you can change your mind. Many a member state has changed its mind during a legislative procedure because it’s had a general election back home and the left has thrown out the right or the right has thrown out the left and it’s stood on its head in the [European] Council — and that’s accepted.”
He said he could not see the British government deciding to reverse course. “But there is no doubt that if they did go in that direction — if the deal looked so bad that the government was thrown out or decided that it could not recommend it — then it would be perfectly possible to carry on,” he said.
Although there would be no legal price to pay under that scenario, Kerr said, other EU members would probably extract some kind of political concession from Britain — but it might not be too severe. He said they would not be able to touch Britain’s legally enshrined rebate from the EU budget, for example.
Kerr said he would be “pontificating in the Lords” on Wednesday when May sends her notification to the EU. His days on the diplomatic front lines may be behind him but he would relish one last big mission — heading back to Brussels with a note from the British government saying it had decided not to go ahead with Brexit, bolstered by his own handiwork in the form of Article 50.
“This is a little unlikely,” he said, pausing for a brief chuckle, “but I would love to be the British negotiator who came with the second letter saying ‘actually we’ve changed our mind’ because I would come surrounded by lawyers and every time somebody raised a price that I would have to pay, I would say ‘please consult your lawyer, I don’t have to pay any price, I’m here by right.’”
Click here for an interactive guide to Article 50 with comments from Lord Kerr.
LJUBLJANA, Slovenia — For 11 years, Irfan Beširević didn’t exist.
Today, he looks like many other elderly Slovenian men: brown eyes buried in wrinkles, a collared shirt tucked neatly under a striped sweater, Marlboro smoke wisping around salt and pepper stubble.
But Beširević is different. He’s one of the 25,671 citizens of other Yugoslav countries that Slovenia deleted without warning from its register of permanent residents in 1992 after it separated from the bloc. They lost all the rights they had the day before — to work and live legally in Slovenia, to access free medical care, to travel and to have a bank account — and effectively became stateless.
Now it’s been 25 years. Two constitutional court rulings, three national laws, two European Court of Human Rights judgments, one compensation scheme and one referendum later, the issue is supposed to be fixed. The deadline to apply for compensation from the state is this June, and then the country can forget the whole unpleasant issue.
The problem, for Beširević and many others, is far from concluded.
While some have been able to regain a legal status (around 11,000 of the 25,671, according to Matevž Krivic, a lawyer, advocate and former constitutional court judge), there are still six cases before the ECHR from those dealing with consequences of the “erasure.” And even after the ECHR ruled in 2012 that the affected minorities deserve compensation, barely one-fifth of the total have been granted any money.
Beširević was never able to repair the family and friendship ties that snapped when he lost his status, although he got citizenship back in 2003. He has lasting medical problems that went untreated for years, and though he’s been formally granted compensation, he’s not sure he can access it; like many, he went into debt while living illegally, so his bank accounts are frozen. If the compensation is put into his account, it won’t reach him.
* * *
Slovenia has always been the most prosperous of the six former Yugoslav republics: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Serbia. It’s a small but proud country, and that pride is often taken as arrogance, especially by other Balkan nations. When the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) began to dissolve in 1991, Slovenia was the first to declare independence. After a quick 10-day war, the country made an about-face toward Western Europe, immediately conducting studies on how to join the European Union. Its efforts paid off: In 2004 it was the first former Yugoslav country to join the EU, in 2007 it smoothly transitioned to the euro, and in 2008 it was the first of the new member countries to host the presidency of the Council of the EU. Slovenia seemed the great success of the Balkans.
But in the shadows lay a troubling trend. Of all 47 members of the Council of Europe, Slovenia has the highest rate of human rights violations, with 148 violations per million people. As of 2016, Slovenia had lost 94 percent of its cases — the same rate as Russia.
The country’s greatest violation was also one of its first acts of Westernization: the erasure. In communist Yugoslavia, nationals of any member republic could move freely and live within the others as “permanent residents,” a status that gave them most of the rights of citizenship but allowed them to keep their home country’s nationality. After Slovenia’s independence, there was a six-month period where these permanent residents could apply for Slovenian citizenship. In the hectic new country, thousands did not apply or were rejected when they tried. Then, on February 26, 1992, poof — those who hadn’t applied were deleted from the register of permanent residents. The “erased,” as they eventually became known, amounted to about 1 percent of the country’s population.
The mass deletion had devastating effects. “[They] have been deprived of the right to legally work, to travel, to have a bank account, to vote and to be elected and to receive the pension they had earned for decades in Slovenia,” a 1996 report from human rights group Helsinki Monitor reads. “They also have no right to free medical treatment for which they had paid contributions all their life … [or to] possess real estate they had purchased.”
Letters from the interior ministry at the time show the state knew the consequences the act would have. “We have to ignore the rights these persons already have,” one reads. With wars breaking out in neighboring Croatia and Bosnia, the young Slovenian government was in a tenuous position. Lojze Peterle, the first president of the independent Slovenia, explained the prevailing mentality toward these people in a 2009 interview with the Slovenian newspaper Dnevnik. “A new state had emerged, the war had started,” Peterle said. “Some of them … didn’t believe that the new country will succeed. Some even obeyed orders from outside of Slovenia.”
Some of those who were erased were indeed members of the Yugoslav Army who fought against Slovenian independence. Sweeping nationalism created suspicion of anyone who had the option to acquire Slovenian citizenship and had passed it up.
The purge of the public register occurred with no warning or publicity. Some didn’t find out their status had been revoked until they went on holiday and were denied re-entry at the border. Some found out after being fired or evicted, because the state informed their employers and landlords of their loss of status, but not them.
Beširević, who is from Bosnia but has lived in Slovenia since he was one year old, found out at his local municipality office. The government employee took his ID and punched a word onto it in tiny holes. Twenty-five years later, on a recent Saturday in Ljubljana, he pulls the card from his jacket pocket. He looks almost the same, down to the outfit, except his ’80s mustache is all pepper and no salt. Over his name and identity details, the imprint is still there. In Slovenian, it reads “DESTROYED.”
Over the next years, Beširević lost everything: his apartment; his job at one of Slovenia’s finest 5-star hotels; the health care he needed to keep the thrombosis in his legs at bay. When he began to tell his story publicly, his family told him he was embarrassing them. Eventually he lost them too. He slept on the streets. He went to the Red Cross, only to be told they couldn’t help him, because he didn’t exist.
* * *
For most of the ’90s, there was virtually no public knowledge that this had happened; stigma and fear of deportation kept people quiet about losing their status. “People thought they were the only ones it had happened to,” Maja Ladič, a researcher at the Peace Institute, says. “They needed a couple years to realize that it was a systematic, deliberate thing that the state did.”
But beginning in 1999, the first time the state constitutional court ruled that it was illegal, it became a political tool. Right-wing parties and the media perpetuated that those who lost their status were enemies of Slovenia and “aggressors,” a Slovenian term that’s akin to “terrorist.”
Despite studying politics and international relations, Ladič says until she became an activist she had only heard about people who had lost their status in the context that it was their own fault for opposing Slovenia.
“Everything was communicated in terms of security issues,” she says. “Sooner or later, you felt like they were a threat.”
For the next 10 years, through a two-steps-forward, one-step-back kind of rhythm and against most public approval (a 2004 referendum asked whether rights should be restored to erased persons; 96 percent of voters said No), some people still living in Slovenia with no status were able to regain one. Katarina Kresal, minister of the interior from 2008 to 2011, was one of the first politicians to make restoring the statuses of the erased a priority. As a result, she was put through interpellation procedures to remove her from office. “You weren’t gaining points if you were saying, ‘this is wrong,'” Kresal says. “You were gaining points if you said ‘this isn’t a problem, they’re crooks and liars.'”
Then in 2012, the ECHR ruled that Slovenia had violated the rights of the people it deleted, and they were entitled to compensation. Due to the financial crisis the country was still feeling in full force, the amount offered was minimal: €50 for each month without a status, and the possibility to appeal in court for up to three times more. By way of comparison, someone on welfare in Slovenia receives €292 a month.
Relatively few persons who lost their status qualify for this compensation scheme, and even those that do sometimes can’t afford to hire a lawyer for the necessary legal procedure, according to Ladič. The deadline to apply for compensation is June 18, 2017, and as of February 21 only 5,530 have been granted compensation.
Stigma against the erased still lingers with the public, and when compensation comes up it gets stronger. But the money is necessary for many, especially those who weren’t able to legally work enough years to qualify for a pension.
“A lot of people lost 10 or 15 of their most productive years,” Sara Pistotnik, a field researcher for The Peace Institute, says.
For the 11 years — 139 months — that he had no status, Beširević was granted €6,950, to be paid in five installments of €1,390 each year. Since his bank account is frozen, he convinced someone at the municipality to pay him the first two years via an “unconventional method” — cash — but they aren’t willing to do that again. He’s supposed to receive his third payment April 7, and doesn’t know if he’ll get it.
“I can walk free now, but that’s all,” Beširević says.
He tells his story in an activist center, and there’s a red poster behind him with mug shots of politicians, Wild West-Wanted style. These politicians are the same ones Beširević used to chat up at the hotel he worked at, the ones who stopped associating with him after he lost his status. In all-caps Slovenian letters, the poster reads “Guilty for the erased.”
* * *
The Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers, which ensures ECHR judgments are implemented, stopped monitoring Slovenia’s compensation scheme last year, deeming it satisfactory and the amount acceptable, “[taking] into account the current financial situation” of the country.
New lawsuits are being filed, but it’s a long road to the state supreme court or the ECHR, where they will likely have to be resolved. A commercial dispute takes 1,160 days on average to go through Slovenia’s national court system, a wait more than three times that in Germany and France and a problem which has drawn repeated complaints from the European Commission.
And there are still erased persons who didn’t qualify for compensation, or even to regain a legal status. Many left Slovenia, either because they were forcibly deported or denied re-entry, or because they couldn’t make a life in the country anymore so left “voluntarily.” About 12,000 of them still live outside the country, according to the lawyer Krivic, and many of them weren’t eligible for even the most inclusive law to regain a legal status, which expired in 2013. While perhaps some of them would return if they could, the government has no obligation to provide them a way to apply.
“There are no open questions of the legal status of the erased,” Nina Gregori, the country’s director general of migration at the interior ministry, says. “Slovenia got approval from the Council of Europe that the case of the erased is closed.”
Krivic sees that political momentum has waned and knows people see the issue as solved. And yet last year he found six new cases of people, still with no status, living in Slovenia with no way to apply for citizenship. They lost their status 25 years ago, meaning many are at an age where they should be nearing retirement and could soon need medical aid and care. Krivic is at least as old as the people he is defending, but he sees no end date in sight.
“What else can I do?” he asks.
At last, the two-year Brexit clock is about to start ticking. The months-long phony war of words will give way to real talks.
What is clear is that two years after Article 50 is activated on Wednesday, the U.K. will no longer be a member of the EU, whether or not a deal has been struck on the terms of the divorce. But much is unclear about how the talks will play out. What happens next? And who are the players that will really count?
Here’s your essential POLITICO reading list on the talks and what they mean for the U.K. and the rest of Europe.
* * *
What happens after Theresa May triggers Article 50
Once May pulls the trigger, what next? This is your route map to the months of negotiations ahead.
Brexit power matrix
These are the people who will have to steer through the obstacles, and manage crises as the talks unfold. Brussels will be the center of gravity of negotiations, but national figureheads rather than EU officials hold the real power.
Britain’s Brexit plan B
What happens if (as is highly likely) a trade deal cannot be reached during Britain’s exit negotiations? British trade officials are discreetly exploring a 10-year interim arrangement with the European Union using a little-known WTO clause.
EU’s goal in Brexit talks: divorce first
On the EU side of the negotiations they want to get the divorce over first before they will talk about trade. Only if a satisfactory outcome is reached on the Brexit bill, citizens rights’ and other key points will the EU27 expand the mandate of chief negotiator Michel Barnier to include a future trade or other partnership deal.
Michel Barnier’s Brexit dream team
The European Commission’s chief Brexit negotiator has assembled a team of roughly 30 staffers to coordinate the EU’s position. This task force is likely to more than double in the first months of talks. But who are the key players?
Merkel and May: splitting differences
The two leaders share a similar background and speak the same political language: cautious, pragmatic Christian conservatism. How their power relationship at the heart of the Brexit negotiations plays out will be key to what happens.
13 things you didn’t know about Brexit
From the number of British MEPs on the chopping block to number of financial services “passports” at risk, this is Brexit by the numbers.
The real Mr. Brexit
He’s the most important player in the Brexit negotiations you’ve probably never heard of. Oliver Robbins is Theresa May’s EU adviser and, during the talks, will function as the prime minister’s “sherpa” — the point man for all important decisions.
Article 50 author Lord Kerr: I didn’t have UK in mind
The veteran British diplomat who wrote Article 50 did not imagine his own country would be the one to use it. John Kerr — now Lord Kerr of Kinlochard — imagined that the exit procedure might be triggered after an authoritarian leader took power in a member country.
Article 50 annotated 
An interactive guide to Article 50, with comments from its author Lord Kerr of Kinlochard.
A Brexit lexicon
From Article 50 to Zero (the amount Brexiteers want to pay the EU for its divorce) by way of Pollsters and the Queen. This is the ultimate Brexit A to Z.
Ireland’s Brexit meltdown
Dublin is convinced that Britain’s departure from the EU will be disastrous and is desperate for the rest of Europe not to forget its plight.
… and finally Brexit: the board game
What better way to celebrate the triggering of Article 50 than by gathering all the family and enjoying an old-fashioned board game? Choose to play as hard or soft Brexit and remember, no cheating — unless you are Michael Gove.
ROME — Italy’s next government could see a populist alliance between the 5Star Movement and the Northern League that if consummated would turn Italian and European politics on their heads.
This joining of forces long seemed unthinkable (and, for many, unpalatable). But the rise of the two parties in the polls — and the disintegration of mainstream forces — increases the odds of a government in Rome that, among more unconventional steps, promises to take the country out of the eurozone.
When Italians go to the polls, no later than early 2018, the 5Stars could well win the vote but fail to secure a big enough majority to govern. The party founded by comedian Beppe Grillo had long pledged to rule only on its own and shun coalitions in favor of staying in the opposition.
This revolutionary principle is being reconsidered. According to top-level insiders, the 5Stars’ leadership is already working on a Plan B in case it lacks the votes, as is likely, to govern by itself. Such a plan, partially confirmed in public comments by some lawmakers, would include a parliamentary alliance with the anti-immigrant Northern League and other smaller populist parties, such as the far-right Brothers of Italy.
“We want to run alone at the next elections, as we always did, and we target a 40 percent win, which would allow us to obtain the mandate to form a new government,” Alessandro Di Battista, one of the leaders of the movement, told POLITICO.
“If that doesn’t happen, and we get less than 40 percent of the vote, we’ll be ready to explain our platform in parliament and submit it to all the other parties. Then it will be their responsibility to say Yes or No to a government led by the 5Stars.”
A populist triumph in Italy would be as shocking to the European establishment as any outcome in this year of elections, including a victory by Marine Le Pen in France this spring. Between them, the 5Stars and Northern League back a cocktail of policies considered anathema by Brussels.
“The plan [for a populist alliance] is there and it’s being discussed in the parliament’s corridors,” said a person familiar with the situation. “What remains to be seen is how and if it’s going to work once in place, and what the junior partners will ask in exchange for their parliamentary support to a possible 5Star government.”
The leaders of the 5Stars insist they would reject any old-school backroom deal or trading of political seats in exchange for parliamentary backing.
“That’s old politics and we just want to erase it,” said Luigi Di Maio, the 30-year-old deputy leader of the lower house and a possible 5Star prime ministerial candidate. “Any alliance will be based on our program and will be done in parliament, where the votes are.”
If the coalition call comes, the Northern League, led by the outspoken and social media-savvy Matteo Salvini, is ready to at least consider it — as long as any potential suitor is ready to back his battle against “a disastrous European Union and its harmful policies,” which he says have led Italy toward poverty and political irrelevance.
Salvini has transformed the League from a struggling separatist party into a national political force, along the lines of Le Pen’s National Front, hammering home three messages: no euro, no immigrants, and lower taxes.
On some grounds, a 5Star-Northern League alliance seems a natural fit. Both rage against Italy’s elite and European bureaucracy, and there is growing convergence between the 5Stars’ anti-euro, anti-globalization stance and that of the Northern League.
Salvini and 5Star founder Grillo even share a fondness for Russia’s Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump.
But it would be a risky marriage for both parties, who would have to overcome their remaining differences and form a government strong enough to produce a bold and realistic agenda, able to address the needs of a country mired in debt, with moribund growth and stark social divisions.
“We remain open to dialogue, but I still see many differences between us and the 5Stars,” Salvini said. “Obviously, if they change their minds and prove to be interested in reaching a compromise, we are here, ready to listen.”
However, Salvini has concerns. “We have completely different views on how to defend our borders from the immigrants’ wave. Not to mention labor and fiscal policies: The 5Stars want social handouts for people who don’t work. We want to cut taxes for companies that invest in hiring workers. That’s a big difference.”
At Italy’s 2013 general election, the 5Stars came from nowhere to become the second most popular party. Despite a few ups and downs along the way, its poll ratings have remained steady at around 30 percent, generally ahead of a divided center-right and, more recently, slightly ahead of the center-left Democratic Party (PD) of former premier Matteo Renzi.
According to a recent Ipsos poll, the movement is polling at a record high of 32.3 percent — a 5 percentage point lead over the PD. That’s likely in part down to the role the 5Stars played in the success of the No campaign ahead of a constitutional referendum last year that cost Renzi his job. In the Ipsos poll, the Northern League remained steady at around 13 percent, well up on the meager 4 percent it scored in the 2013 elections.
Many European partners, however, fear that a 5Star election win would put Italy’s economic and political stability at risk because of its lack of experience and unclear agenda — and their fears haven’t been assuaged by the 5Stars’ shaky management of Rome since Virginia Raggi won mayoral elections last June. Raggi has been rocked by corruption scandals and though the 5Star leadership has so far defended the mayor, it knows that failure in the capital doesn’t bode well for its chances of governing nationally.
That’s not the only concern. Critics and supporters note that Grillo’s movement has been pushing an increasingly inconsistent political platform of late: it has backtracked from wanting to take Italy out of the EU and even tried (unsuccessfully) to forge an alliance in the European Parliament with the Liberal group of arch-federalist Guy Verhofstadt — leaving it to continue its European alliance with Nigel Farage’s UKIP.
“The lack of clarity and political coherence, which has proved successful for the 5Stars as a pure protest movement, now risks undermining their ambitions to govern, as their traditional electorate resist the need for transforming what was an exceptional protest group into a real party, fit for office,” said Massimiliano Panarari, a professor at Rome’s LUISS University
If a 5Star election win is a concern for many, fears of a 5Star-Northern League deal are even greater.
The two parties would face “immediate contrasts,” said Panarari. “But above all, they would have to quickly tackle the need to transform their radical and often impracticable plans into realistic economic and social policies, able to push Italy out of one of its deepest crisis.”
One obvious area of division is membership of the single currency. The Northern League has dropped calls for a referendum on exiting the eurozone, saying such a move would have no constitutional relevance, while the 5Stars maintain their long-standing pledge to hold an anti-euro referendum.
They are, however, slightly closer on immigration than they were, with the 5Stars taking a much harder stance of late. Italy “can’t become Europe’s refugee camp,” 5Star lawmaker Sergio Battelli said Thursday, calling for EU sanctions against countries that refuse to accept refugees, but also for bilateral agreements to speed-up economic migrants’ repatriations.
The 5Stars have had great success attracting disaffected voters from both right and left. Now, one of the leading anti-establishment forces in Europe has to preserve and widen its electoral base as it fights to become a governing force — a process that often leads to painful compromises and hard electoral choices.
According to Roberto D’Alimonte, politics professor at Florence University, “without a broad alliance among the main parties, either on the left or on the right side, the result at the next elections will be just chaos.”
A group of pro-EU British MPs on Tuesday publish a report on promises they believe the British people will hold the government responsible for keeping when the U.K. leaves the EU.
In the report — called “Government’s Brexit contract with the British people” — Remain-supporting MPs Nicky Morgan, Chris Leslie and Nick Clegg say “the [Vote Leave] campaign and the government have made specific promises … and people will expect these promises to be delivered.” The MPs are members of the cross-party Open Britain group, which campaigns against “a hard, destructive Brexit.”
When it comes to trade, people expect the same benefits as the U.K. currently has within the single market and “lots of new trade deals with new countries that are ready to sign on the day of our departure from the EU.”
It also says there should be “no changes to the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic,” and “a dramatic reduction in net migration while also keeping the U.K. open to the talent and skills that U.K. business need.”
According to the MPs, “Responsibility for the outcome [of Brexit] now rests with those conducting negotiations and those advocating a hard Brexit.”
The report comes one day before the official triggering of Article 50, beginning the formal procedure of leaving the EU.
If Brexit turns out to be a disaster, Nigel Farage will “go and live abroad, I’ll go and live somewhere else.”
The former UKIP leader made the pledge on his LBC radio show on Monday evening, but told a Remain voting caller that it won’t happen as “it isn’t going to be a disaster. We’ve just managed to get ourselves in a lifeboat off the Titanic. The EU does not work.”
Asked by a Remain voting caller to his LBC radio show if he would apologize and quit politics if — “two or three years down the line” — experts were proved right about the “economic disaster that’s going to happen” after Brexit, Farage said “there isn’t much of a tradition here.”
He then listed a number of British political figures who had failed to say sorry to the people, including former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair’s former spin doctor Alastair Campbell, which whom Farage had a heated Brexit confrontation on early morning television on Monday, “for taking us into a war that cost us much gold and blood.”
Former Vice President Dick Cheney said Monday that Russia’s meddling in the U.S. presidential election could be “considered an act of war.”
Cheney, who served as President George W. Bush’s No. 2, spoke about Russia at The Economic Times’ Global Business Summit on Monday.
“There’s not any argument at this stage that somehow the election of President Trump was not legitimate, but there’s no question that there was a very serious effort made by Mr. Putin and his government, his organization, to interfere in major ways with our basic, fundamental democratic processes,” he said. “In some quarters, that would be considered an act of war.”
The U.S. intelligence community has identified Russia as the culprit behind cyberattacks against the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, concluding that Russian President Vladimir Putin directed the attacks to aid Trump in his campaign against Clinton.
Trump’s White House has repeatedly seized on reports from U.S. officials that Russians didn’t directly impact the vote count as evidence that Russia’s meddling didn’t shape Trump’s election.
Trump and his associates’ potential ties to Russia are also under investigation by the FBI and House and Senate Intelligence Committees. A number of those associates, including former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and Trump senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner, have expressed a willingness to testify about their ties to Russia.
While Trump has spoken warmly of Putin, Cheney warned that the Russian autocrat has operated “in ways that none of his predecessors have done for the last 40 years.”
“I would not underestimate the weight that we as Americans assign to the Russian attempts to interfere with our internal political processes,” Cheney said.
Financial incentive. Reward for good behavior. Gift. Bribe. Call it what you like, but payments to migrants to encourage them to return to their countries of origin are now key to Europe’s migration policy. They are also creating a problem.
The amount offered in so-called assisted voluntary return payments varies considerably across the EU. Migrants in Germany, for example, can receive upwards of €5,000 in payments and in-kind assistance to leave, while those in the Czech Republic receive nothing. That has created perverse incentives, with the European Commission warning about migrants “shopping” around for the best deal.
In a communication published earlier this month, the Commission argued that the levels of cash or in-kind contributions returnees receive for leaving voluntarily should be consistent across the bloc. Member countries have officially welcomed the move but there is little sign yet of it being put into practice.
On Monday, a common return policy was discussed by EU home affairs ministers. Carmelo Abela, the home affairs minister of Malta, which holds the rotating presidency of the Council, said the current return policy is not effective. “We need to make sure that our assistance helps to boost these returns,” he said.
Paying asylum seekers and other irregular migrants to leave might seem a politically dangerous tactic for EU members to deal with their immigration headache — particularly with nationalist movements on the rise across the Continent. But it has been adopted by most EU countries as a way to unclog their overwhelmed asylum systems. According to Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, only a third of those whose applications to stay are unsuccessful actually leave, something he described earlier this month as “not sustainable.”
In some cases, in order to receive the payment and other assistance, the migrant must agree to go voluntarily before their case has been decided. This works out cheaper for the host country in the long run than forceful deportation.
“Voluntary returns are a very important part of our return policy,” a Commission official said. “The more migrants that leave voluntarily, the less have to be locked up and deported.”
The Commission has called on member countries to have operational assisted voluntary return programs in place by June 1.
Last year, there were 81,575 assisted voluntary returns from Europe, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM) — although the figures are not comprehensive. According to the most recent figures from Eurostat, there were more than 2 million irregular migrants in the EU in 2015.
But assisted voluntary return payments vary significantly between countries, and may also depend on the migrant’s country of origin and their age. In February, Germany more than doubled so-called start-up money for returnees from €500 to €1,200. Including in-kind assistance, the amount a migrant receives can total €5,000 or more.
France temporarily increased its assistance in cash last year from €650 to €2,500. Austria increased its cash payments to Afghan, Nigerian and Moroccan returnees from €370 to €500 in 2016. Portugal boosted in-kind assistance from €1,500 to €2,000 earlier this year.

A review by the European Migration Network, an EU-funded expert group, found major inconsistencies in 2015. France offered up to €7,000 in payments and in-kind benefits. Norway, which is part of the Schengen area, assisted child returnees with up to €3,750 cash. Sweden paid up to €3,300 to an adult returner, while Bulgaria, Hungary and Latvia paid only €100. In Bulgaria and Poland in-kind assistance was worth up to €500. According to the IOM, the Czech Republic no longer provides any assistance. Most voluntary returnees do not receive the maximum amounts on offer.
The EU supports member countries in funding the return schemes, mainly through its Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF). For the 2014-2020 period, it allocated €800 million from AMIF funds, adding a further €200 million earlier this year.
But the Commission now fears that the differences between member countries will lead to so-called secondary movements of migrants within Europe. “Irregular migrants could go to another country because they are given more support for their return to the country of origin,” said a Commission spokesperson.
There is no explicit data on whether this actually happens, but Anne Dussart, chair of Caritas Europe Action Group on Migration, a Catholic NGO, thinks it is likely. “If one compares the nationalities of the returnees from different EU countries, it is striking that from the one EU state many more people re-enter a certain country of origin than from another,” she said, adding that this could be because of the disparity between countries in the support they provide.
The Commission has a second concern: If receiving countries know that returnees from one EU country bring more money with them than those from another, “this may lead to countries of origin favoring only those returns coming from member states offering higher reintegration packages.” It does not yet have evidence this is happening though.
Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this article.
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on Monday said the Brexit timetable of British Prime Minister Theresa May matches her plan to call a referendum on Scottish independence.
“I think it makes it very difficult for the prime minister to maintain a rational opposition to a referendum in the timescale that I have set out,” Sturgeon said after she met May in Glasgow, the Guardian reported.
A Downing Street official told the paper the meeting was “courteous.”
Sturgeon confirmed earlier this month her intention to hold a second referendum on Scottish independence between fall 2018 and spring 2019. On Tuesday, Sturgeon is expected to win a vote in the Scottish parliament on her plans and timescale for the referendum.
She will then formally to ask the U.K. government to allow a referendum to take place.
“In my view it was not a question of if but when” the referendum would be held, Sturgeon said, adding that she could not see any circumstances in which the British government would offer a deal to Scotland that could prevent the referendum from being held.
May has so far rejected the SNP’s calls, saying “now is not the time” for a referendum.
SOFIA — Center-right leader Boyko Borisov has his work cut out forming a stable coalition despite coming first in Bulgaria’s parliamentary elections.
Borisov is set for a third term as prime minister after his GERB party topped Sunday’s poll with 32.7 percent of the vote, ahead of the revitalized Socialist Party on 27.2 percent, according to official results.
Although the socialists did not win the election, their mix of nationalist, pro-Russian and anti-Western messages gave them their best result since 2005.
Borisov, who quit as prime minister after his party’s candidate lost to the socialists in a presidential election last November, said his party was “obliged to form a government.”
“We will put in enormous efforts, I hope with small compromises, to negotiate with potential partners and form a government quickly,” he said.
Borisov said the country needed a stable government, in part because Bulgaria will take over the EU’s rotating presidency in January next year. However, finding that stability will be tricky.
His party has 96 seats in the 240-member parliament and a coalition with the United Patriots alliance, which won 27 seats, would give him a majority. Borisov ruled with the group in his last government but it is composed of very different parties with very different agendas.
One of the parties, Ataka, kicked off its election campaign in Moscow and wants close relations with Russia — including accepting the annexation of Crimea. Two other parties staged a blockade of the Turkish border in the days leading up to the election to stop Bulgarian Turks living abroad from entering the country to vote. Scenes on television of party leaders pushing and verbally abusing ordinary men and women trying to cross the border did them no favors with many voters.
Longstanding feuds between the parties in the alliance could cause it to collapse at any time and leave Borisov without a majority. The ultra-nationalist views of some members of the alliance are also unlikely to go down well many of Bulgaria’s EU partners.
“The United Patriots can always have internal problems and that is why GERB will need a bigger coalition. A union only with them will be very difficult for Europe to accept,” said Boryana Dimitrova, managing partner of polling firm Alpha Research.
A senior GERB politician, speaking on condition of anonymity, also said that such a coalition would be “very hard to maintain.”
If GERB wants a broader coalition, its only other viable partner appears to be the new Volia (“Will”) party of Veselin Mareshki, owner of the country’s biggest pharmacy chain and an investor in cut-price gas stations. Mareshki barely made it above the 4 percent barrier to get seats in parliament. He promptly declared he wanted not only to support a government, but also to take an active part in it.
Various small parties campaigning on anti-corruption platforms failed to break through the 4 percent barrier. That means long-stalled efforts to improve the judicial system and crack down on oligarchies, graft and cronyism have little chance of being revived.
The only other group to gain seats in parliament was the DPS party, which represents members of the ethnic Turkish community and won 9 percent of the vote. GERB has previously ruled out forming a coalition with the party.
Political parties in Northern Ireland have been given an extra few weeks to strike a power-sharing deal after the deadline for reaching agreement passed on Monday afternoon, the Guardian reported.
“We remain resolved to see a positive outcome,” U.K. Secretary of State for Northern Ireland James Brokenshire said, ruling out fresh elections and rule from London at this stage but adding that the extra time would be just “a short few weeks.”
The Democratic Unionists and Sinn Féin, the two biggest parties, have accused each other of unwillingness to come to an agreement.
The resignation of the late Martin McGuinness as Ireland’s deputy first minister in protest at DUP leader Arlene Foster’s handling of a renewable energy scheme triggered an election earlier this month.
Under Northern Ireland’s power-sharing agreement, the executive must be jointly run by unionists and nationalists.
DUBLIN — A new law in Ireland which makes it illegal to purchase sex but not to sell it came into force Monday.
The law has divided opinion, with some groups claiming it will protect sex workers and others worried about the consequences of criminalization.
Denise Charlton, chairwoman of Turn Off The Red Light — an umbrella group of charities and NGOs — praised the rules, saying they would “disrupt the sex trade and it will affect traffickers and pimps while offering those who are exploited in the trade an opportunity to exit and access services for protection.”
However, the Sex Workers Alliance of Ireland said it had major misgivings about the new law.
Spokeswoman Dervla Ryan said, “We are deeply concerned about the potential impact that several provisions in the new law may have on the health and safety of sex workers in Ireland.
“Worryingly, in other jurisdictions it has proven to damage the relationship between police and sex workers and push sex workers to work in more isolated and hidden areas to avoid police surveillance and protect their clients from arrest.”
Clare Daly, a member of parliament for the Independents 4 Change group, is also a critic of the law. She said in a statement that it “contrasts with international trends which are moving in the direction of recommending the decriminalization of sex work.”
“The legislation was not based on its own research but rather it over-relied on evidence from the Nordic and Swedish model and the efficiency of those laws are highly questionable.
“Another major concern is the lack of consultation with the people who are at the center of the matter. This contrasts sharply with the approach taken in the U.K. where serious research is now underway before any changes are made to the current legislation,” she said.
The law, which also introduced new offenses relating to the sexual exploitation of children, is designed to clamp down on an increase in the number of women being trafficked to Ireland by criminal gangs.
Ireland is the latest country to adopt the so-called Swedish model, whereby the purchasers of sex are prosecuted while the sellers are not — as well as Sweden, this approach has been used in France, Iceland and Norway.
The issue of sex for sale in Ireland will be reviewed after three years as part of a clause built in to the new legislation.
Turks living in Germany began voting Monday in a constitutional referendum aimed at increasing the powers of the president despite an ongoing diplomatic spat between Ankara and several EU capitals, local media reported.
The Turkish government last week said it had canceled all rallies in Germany in the run-up to the April 16 constitutional referendum. The move came after several EU member countries refused to host Turkish government officials and election speeches, which Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan called “Nazi practices.”
Wolfgang Schäuble, Germany’s finance minister, on Sunday said Erdogan’s rhetoric was setting back integration by Turkish citizens in Germany by years and it would take a long time to repair the damage.
Voting in Germany will take place from March 27 to April 9 at Turkish consulates across the country. About 1.4 million people in Germany of Turkish background are eligible to vote. The total electorate across EU countries is an estimated 2.5 million.
BERLIN — German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Monday that promising to keep ruling with the Social Democrats in Saarland helped her conservatives win a regional election there at the weekend — but that didn’t mean she’d use the same strategy in the national election this fall.
Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) posted an unexpectedly big victory in the small western state on Sunday, winning 40.7 percent of the vote to finish more than 11 percentage points ahead of the SPD. Continuing the so-called “grand coalition” between the two parties is now the only viable option.
“The CDU in Saarland had a clear message when it came to … whom to form a coalition with, and this contributed to the good result,” Merkel said, visibly energized and upbeat after a meeting with CDU officials at party headquarters in Berlin.
But this does not necessarily mean the party would follow a similar path in the election for the Bundestag later this year, said Merkel, who has governed in coalition with the SPD for two of her three terms as chancellor.
“I refuse to make any declaration in March about what will be possible in September,” she said.
In contrast to the CDU’s popular state premier in Saarland, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the SPD challenger, Anke Rehlinger, stressed that she favored an alliance with the far-left party Die Linke, and possibly also the Greens, instead.
“We made it clear that we would like to continue this grand coalition,” said the CDU’s Kramp-Karrenbauer. “All of this met with great approval among the people in Saarland, and the vote yesterday was a vote of confidence.”
Sunday’s results came as a surprise to many: The CDU and SPD had been neck-and-neck in opinion polls but the conservatives outperformed and won by far the most seats in the regional assembly, while the SPD came in way under expectations. Polls suggest this was because the electorate felt more positive about the prospect of repeating the CDU-led “grand coalition” than seeing Die Linke have a role in governing the state.
It was a reassuring outcome for Merkel, who for the first time in many years has begun to look beatable since the SPD named former European Parliament President Martin Schulz as their candidate for chancellor in January, prompting a surge in the polls for the center-left party.
On closer inspection, however, tiny Saarland — a patchwork of thickly forested hills, industrial areas and mining towns with an electorate of just 800,000, out of Germany’s total electorate of 61.5 million — can hardly serve as a blueprint for the national election in September.
A spokesman for the German government on Monday denied media reports that U.S. President Donald Trump handed a multibillion-euro invoice to Chancellor Angela Merkel when they met in Washington earlier this month.
“Reports that President Trump had presented the federal chancellor with a kind of bill with a concrete billion sum are not true,” spokesman Steffen Seibert said at a press conference.
According to a report in the Sunday Times, Trump handed Merkel a bill of more than $300 billion for money Germany supposedly owed to NATO. The gesture was “outrageous,” the paper quoted an unnamed German minister as saying.
After his meeting with Merkel in mid-March, Trump said on Twitter that Germany owed “vast sums of money” to NATO and the U.S. and it “must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!”
Seibert said Merkel and Trump had discussed defense expenditure during their meeting, but there was no “debt account at NATO.”
All NATO members are urged to spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense. Germany is increasing military spending, but its contribution is still seen falling well short of the 2 percent goal this year.
The U.K. should be able to send back or refuse entry to “beggars or criminals” from EU member countries after it leaves the bloc, Gerard Batten, an MEP responsible for UKIP’s Brexit policy, said Monday.
Batten said Britain should guarantee the rights of EU citizens already living in Britain if those countries guaranteed the rights of British citizens living abroad.
“But we must also have the right not to keep people who, for example, do not work, never pay taxes or are beggars or criminals,” he said. “I think it is an idiotic immigration policy that says we will take anybody irrespective of what value they may or may not produce to our country.”
He said most U.K. citizens living elsewhere in Europe “are either doing skilled jobs or are retirees spending their pensions; we don’t have an equivalence.”
Batten was speaking as he and party leader Paul Nuttall relaunched the party’s Brexit policy. Nuttall stressed that UKIP would be “a home for the purists who want real Brexit” with no payments to Brussels, full control over borders and parliamentary sovereignty by the end of 2019.
Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny was sentenced to 15 days in prison on Monday for disobeying a police officer during an anti-government protest in Moscow at the weekend, Reuters reported.
Navalny, a critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was also fined 20,000 roubles (€322) for his role in organizing Sunday’s protest.
His lawyer told Reuters she had expected such a verdict and would appeal against it.
Russian police on Sunday arrested some 130 protesters during the anti-corruption protests, held around the country.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov described the protests as “a provocation.”
British Prime Minister Theresa May said Monday that she will never allow the U.K. “to become looser and weaker,” in a pointed response to Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon’s demand for a second independence referendum.
Speaking at the Department for International Development office in East Kilbride, near Glasgow, May made the case for British unity. She said: “When this great union of nations — England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — sets its mind on something and works together with determination, we are an unstoppable force.”
She sought to assure Scotland that Westminster will be “fully respecting, and indeed strengthening” its commitment to devolution. But the prime minister warned that a more united Britain meant “never allowing our union to become looser and weaker, or our people to drift apart.”
May’s plans to trigger Article 50 to formally begin the process of leaving the EU — set for Wednesday — have been sidetracked by the Scottish National Party’s decision to demand a second independence referendum.
The SNP was expected to win a vote on calling for another referendum, but the vote was rescheduled to Tuesday after the Westminster terror attack. The decision to hold a referendum ultimately lies with Westminster, and May has rejected the SNP’s calls, saying “now is not the time.”
The “only workable” coalition government in the Netherlands would involve the greens alongside Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s party, according to the lawmaker tasked with exploring possible governing alliances, local media reported.
Edith Schippers, a center-right politician and former health minister, on Monday handed a progress report on the negotiations to parliament, saying that an agreement between Rutte’s liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), the Christian Democrats (CDA), liberal D66 and the center-left GreenLeft has the best chance of success.
She started discussions with the leaders of all 13 parties that won seats in the March 15 vote before reducing the number down to those with the best chance of forming a coalition. Together, VVD, CDA, D66 and GreenLeft have 85 seats in the 150-seat parliament.
Schippers’ report also said Geert Wilders’ far-right Party for Freedom (PVV) was “very keen” to take part in negotiations with VVD and CDA, but those parties didn’t want to work with the PVV.
The parliament will discuss the findings on Tuesday and MPs are expected to give Schippers a mandate to continue discussions.
The Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders will dine together in Nicosia’s U.N. buffer zone on April 2, the United Nations announced Monday, in their first meeting since reunification talks broke down last month.
The negotiations came to a standstill over a law in the Greek Cypriot part of the island that requires schools to commemorate an unofficial 1950 referendum that sought to unify Cyprus with Greece.
The last meeting between the two leaders ended sourly, as Turkish Cypriot leader Mustafa Akıncı claimed that his Greek Cypriot counterpart Nicos Anastasiades walked out “and slammed the door hard,” giving no assurances to Turkish Cypriots that he would denounce the law.
Before that, the two sides had reached broad agreement on most of the issues in the settlement deal except the toughest ones, including the security and guarantees system that gives Turkey, Greece and the U.K. the power to intervene to protect the island’s independence.
The island was divided after Turkey invaded in 1974. Anastasiades’ Greek Cypriot government is now recognized around the world except in Turkey. Akıncı’s Turkish Cypriot government isn’t recognized anywhere except in Turkey.
The U.N. mediates the reunification talks, which started in 2015, and will host the dinner.
The British royal family is looking for a new curtain maker and upholsterer to look after the more than 1,000 rooms in Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle and St James’s Palace.
The successful applicant will be paid £22,000 a year to create curtains “to scale the heights of state rooms,” manage multiple soft furnishing projects, design new items, estimate materials, costs and timings and cut fabrics.
“It’s protecting heritage by leaving your own legacy,” reads the job ad. “And it’s furnishing some of the most famous houses in the world. This is what makes working for the Royal Household exceptional.”
The right candidate will have “a thorough understanding of conservation and significant experience of making new items,” who can “identify, survey and accurately evaluate soft furnishings” on their condition, materials and how they were made.
Visitor numbers at some of London’s most popular tourist attractions fell in 2016 because of tourists’ terror fears, according to the Association of Leading Visitor Attractions (ALVA).
Statistics published by ALVA Monday indicate that while overall visitor numbers across the U.K. recorded an average 7.2 percent jump, over one million fewer people went to London’s Natural History, British and Victoria & Albert museums.
Bernard Donoghue, the director of AVLA, said terror attacks in Brussels, Paris and Nice had made travelers reluctant to visit major cities.
“There were some security fears about central London and city center attractions, both on the part of overseas visitors and also U.K. domestic families,” Donoghue told the Press Association. “While there were some terrorism attacks on mainland continental Europe, there was also some concern among overseas visitors that London might be next.”
Donoghue said the U.K. decision to leave the EU had a positive effect on visitor numbers as the fall in the value of the sterling made traveling to the U.K. more affordable, leading to a surge in visitors from September to the end of the year.
The EU’s diplomatic service has condemned the Russian government’s response to the country’s mass opposition protests on Sunday.
A spokesperson for the European External Action Service said in a statement on Monday that police had “prevented the exercise of basic freedoms of expression, association and peaceful assembly.” The spokesperson demanded authorities release the detained protesters, including opposition leader Alexei Navalny, “without delay.”
The protests — some of largest in recent years — were sparked by allegations Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev took over $1 billion in bribes. Close to 1,000 protesters were detained in Moscow and St. Petersburg.
Navalny, a critic of President Vladimir Putin, was barred last month from running in Russia’s presidential election in 2018 over embezzlement charges, which he claims are politically motivated.
Sinn Féin announced late Sunday it would not nominate its leader Michelle O’Neill as Northern Ireland’s deputy first minister, quashing hopes of a new power-sharing executive in time for Monday’s formal deadline.
In a statement, Sinn Féin leader Michelle O’Neill said: “This talks process has run its course. Sinn Féin will not be supporting nominations for speaker or the executive tomorrow.”
The resignation of the late Martin McGuinness as Ireland’s deputy first minister in protest at Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Arlene Foster’s handling of an energy scheme triggered an election in Northern Ireland earlier this month.
Parties have until 4 p.m. Monday to form a power-sharing executive. If they fail, Northern Ireland Secretary James Brokenshire must intervene and can either call another election or impose direct rule from Westminster within a reasonable period, according to broadcaster RTE.
Brokenshire said in a statement Sunday that the British government’s priority remained to keep the Northern Ireland government intact.
“I am determined to see a functioning executive in place at Stormont [Northern Ireland’s parliament],” Brokenshire said. “I have spoken to the prime minister this afternoon and this remains the U.K. government’s continuing priority.”
 
DUBLIN — Sinn Féin’s call for a referendum on creating a united Ireland is meeting resistance on both sides of the border, even though Brexit has given the party an opportunity to play to concerns among the island’s pro-EU majority.
The party, best known as the political wing of the disbanded terrorist group the IRA, says the time has come for the people of Northern Ireland to vote on whether to remain in the United Kingdom or opt to bring the province under the control of Dublin.
For Sean Crowe, Sinn Féin spokesman on foreign affairs in the Dáil (Irish parliament), a vote can’t come quickly enough. “As Irish republicans, we want to see a border poll and we believe it should happen as soon as possible,” he said. “A united Ireland makes sense economically, politically and for our society. I suppose one of the driving forces is that Brexit is coming down the track and the implications that will have for Ireland. The triggering of Brexit has changed things in relation to Ireland and that’s why more people are talking about it.”
He points out that in the U.K.’s Brexit referendum last June, Northern Ireland voted by a majority of 56 percent to 44 percent in favor of staying in the European Union. Doubts about where the province fits into the future United Kingdom outside the EU have caused uncertainty for pro-British unionists and a sense of opportunity for Irish republicans.
“We want to talk about the future, unionists want to go back to the past,” said Crowe. “We want to talk about what’s best for our people and we believe a united Ireland is the best scenario for our people.”
Revived calls for a regional referendum to end British rule in the North also reflect the Irish nationalists’ confidence that demographic change appears to point in their favor: While Protestants loyal to London and the Crown have been the majority in the province since the 1600s, when they were shipped over from Scotland by King James I, the last census in 2011 revealed that the majority of under-44s is now Catholic, and the overall Catholic population is on track to surpass the Protestants in the next 10 years or so.
The results of the elections earlier this month to the assembly in Stormont, just outside Belfast, reflect that. In a local political “earthquake,” Sinn Féin secured 27 seats, putting them a single seat behind the pro-British Democratic Unionist Party. The DUP secured only 1,168 more first-preference votes than Sinn Féin, and the combined number of seats for the Irish nationalist parties Sinn Féin and SDLP (Social Democratic and Labour Party) was greater than the two major unionist parties for the first time since the partition of Ireland by the British in 1921.
But while Sinn Féin believes the demographic trend plus their own knack for mobilizing votes means they’ll be able to deliver a united Ireland in coming years, their enthusiasm for a border poll is not shared by everyone in the Irish Republic. The largest party that supports a united Ireland, Fianna Fáil, accuses Sinn Féin of trying to fool the public.
Darragh O’Brien, a TD (member of the Dáil) who is Fianna Fáil’s spokesman on foreign affairs, called it “a PR stunt. It actually is a short-sighted measure that would set back any potential for a united Ireland.”
“While we’re in the process of Brexit [negotiations] and the implications for Ireland and the European Union, throwing a referendum into the mix would not be successful. We believe the call is premature and damaging to the cause itself,” he said.
In contrast, the pro-U.K. DUP appears to shrug off Sinn Féin’s call for a referendum on the issue, saying it is not the first such proposal and does not meet the “very clear” criteria for holding such a vote.
According to Christopher Stalford, a DUP member of Northern Ireland’s legislative assembly, the only person who can call such a vote is the U.K. Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, James Brokenshire, “and both he and the Prime Minister [Theresa May] have been clear that the focus should be on the restoration of devolution in Northern Ireland rather than a divisive border poll which would undoubtedly have a negative impact on community relations here.
“Calls for a border poll from some quarters can only be viewed as an attempt to cause instability within the community and distract from the fact that, despite claims that are made, Northern Ireland’s position within the union is strong,” said the DUP politician.
But Crowe of Sinn Féin argued that the 1998 British-Irish Peace Agreement specifically provides for this possibility: Clause 1 in Annex A of the agreement states that Northern Ireland will remain part of the United Kingdom unless the majority say otherwise in a poll.
“Under the Peace Agreement, the possibility of a border poll can be triggered by the [British] Secretary of State, if there’s a shift in public opinion and we believe that demand is there,” said Crowe. “Unionists [will] wake up one morning and the majority of people will want a united Ireland and we want to include them in that discussion, we want to include them in that Ireland.
“It’s vitally important that we start talking and thinking about the future,” he said. “It’s going to come in our lifetime anyway so bring it on and let’s have the discussion.”
The party may also be betting on the U.K. government tiring of the financial cost of keeping Northern Ireland under British rule: London spends about £20 billion a year running the province against £9 billion it receives back in taxes, while 31 percent of the Northern Irish workforce is in the public sector, which is almost twice the British average.
Back in 1990, then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Peter Brooke said, “The British government no longer has any selfish, strategic or economic interest in Northern Ireland.” For Irish nationalists, that gave rise to the hope that the U.K. intends to offload the province when the time is right.
MADRID — Spain will not agree to an independent Scotland staying in the European Union after Brexit — at least, not until it applies to join on its own merits.
As the governments in London and Edinburgh prepare their battle plans ahead of a potential second Scottish independence referendum, both are paying careful attention to what happens in Madrid. Spain has long been the most vocal opponent within the EU to any kind of separate deal for an independent Scotland because of fears that allowing such an arrangement would encourage Catalonia’s bid for independence from Spain.
To judge by the views of senior MPs and government officials in Madrid interviewed for this article, neither U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May nor Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is likely to be entirely happy — or disappointed — with the noises coming from the Spanish capital.
For the SNP, there is no getting away from it: Any hope in Holyrood that Spain might acquiesce to an independent Scotland remaining in the EU in the U.K.’s place despite Brexit is a non-starter.
But Spain’s stance is not as hard-line as the U.K. prime minister’s closest advisers insist. One senior government official familiar with May’s thinking said there was “no way on earth” Spain would ever accept an independent Scotland into the EU.
According to senior figures in the Madrid government, Spain is not saying it will indefinitely block an independent Scotland rejoining the EU but neither has it agreed this might be possible.
The conservative government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy simply insists that, were it to become independent, Scotland must apply to join like everybody else. Any decision on whether to veto a Scottish application to join the EU as an independent country will be taken at a later date.
In the upcoming Brexit negotiations, Spain is advocating a hard EU line against Sturgeon’s Scottish National Party to stop their separatist cause becoming a blueprint for Catalan pro-independence forces.
Rajoy considers the issue a priority in the Brexit negotiations, and his goal, which is backed by the main opposition Socialists, is to avoid any formula by which Scotland can remain in the European Union — either as part of the U.K. or as an independent country.
“Spain supports the territorial integrity of the U.K. and doesn’t encourage secessions or divisions in any of the member states,” Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis said last week after Sturgeon announced her intention to hold a new referendum on independence from the U.K. “We prefer that things continue the way they are.”
Scotland, Dastis said, “would have to join the queue, meet the requirements, go through the well-known negotiations and the outcome will be whatever those negotiations produce.”
The government in the northeastern region of Catalonia is controlled by pro-independence forces, who have committed to organizing a referendum on secession from Spain before October — a vote that Madrid and the country’s courts consider illegal.
For Scotland to leave the U.K. but remain within the EU is exactly the kind of precedent Madrid wants to avoid as it could encourage Catalan separatists, who are paying equally close attention to the Scottish case and who have claimed that Catalonia may be able to leave Spain without leaving the EU.
When asked on Tuesday whether Catalonia could remain in the EU if the region seceded from Spain, former Catalan president Artur Mas, who has just been banned from public office for two years for organizing an illegal independence vote in 2014, said the Scottish case might be instructive. “Let’s see what happens,” he said.
Government officials and sources in Rajoy’s Popular Party (PP) confirmed that Spain has no sympathy for the independent-minded Scots and will reject any agreement by which Scotland could enjoy EU benefits. “Out is out,” said one official in Moncloa, the Spanish government complex in Madrid.
A senior source in the PP leadership said the Scottish question is high on the agenda, trumping even economic issues that may arise during the Brexit negotiations.
“If Scotland could celebrate a referendum before Brexit, could it inherit the British chair in the EU? The Spanish answer is No. Scotland must first become an independent country — if it wants to — and then start an application to join the EU with the same conditions as Serbia, for example,” said Esteban González Pons, an MEP for the PP.
Ignacio Sánchez Amor, a speaker on foreign affairs from the opposition Socialists, backed Dastis’ position, arguing that granting Scotland special access would be opening a Pandora’s Box of demands across Europe. “Everyone has some sort of trouble,” he said, adding that the EU should build “a firewall” against any secessionist demands.
Could Spain veto an independent Scotland from joining the EU? González Pons said Madrid won’t do that but other sources said the decision hasn’t been taken yet, suggesting that the Spanish position will depend on the Catalan situation when, and if, an independent Scotland applies to join the EU.
Beyond a veto, the country can find other, more discreet ways, to try to block Scottish access to the Union.
A member of parliament from the PP said a possible Scottish application to rejoin the EU could take years to process, and suggested that Scotland may not meet EU requirements in terms of, for example, currency or borders. “The only ones who don’t seem to be getting it are the Scottish National Party,” he said.
Ignacio Molina, a senior analyst at the Instituto Elcano think tank, said he wouldn’t have advised such a rigid line against the Scottish separatists, as some in Brussels view Europhile Scotland with sympathetic eyes.
According to Molina, Spain should’ve simply let the U.K. deal with the issue and wait to see if London proposes any kind of special solution for Scotland.
Some pro-independence politicians dismiss the connection between the Scottish case and Catalonia.
“The Spanish government is projecting its own internal phantoms in third countries and different situations,” said Jordi Xuclà, an MP for the Catalan European Democratic Party, which supports Catalan independence.
A spokesperson for the Scottish National Party (SNP) said: “There is a well of goodwill in the EU for the position Scotland currently finds itself in.
“The SNP’s longstanding policy and commitment has been to membership of the European Union. That remains our position.
“We want the people of Scotland to have an informed choice — so we will set out well before any referendum — how Scotland’s relationship with Europe will be secured.”
U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May heads to Scotland Monday to make a case for unity before her government triggers formal EU divorce proceedings this week.
May will hold talks with Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who wants to hold a new referendum on Scottish independence and has been sharply critical of Brexit.
In a speech at the East Kilbride base of Britain’s Department for International Development, May is to argue that Britain would be stronger as a union to take on post-Brexit challenges.
“As Britain leaves the European Union, and we forge a new role for ourselves in the world, the strength and stability of our Union will become even more important,” she is due to say, according to a copy of her speech.
May has told her cabinet that she will send a letter to the EU on Wednesday that will trigger Britain’s formal withdrawal from the European Union.
Sturgeon, whose SNP party wants to remain in the EU, has said she wants a referendum on Scottish independence to take place sometime between fall of next year and Spring, 2019.
BERLIN — Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives scored a windfall victory Sunday in the first of three regional elections ahead of Germany’s national election in the fall, giving the party a much-needed boost and buying the chancellor some time.
Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) won 40.7 percent of the votes in Saarland, around 11 percentage points ahead of the Social Democrats (SPD) at 29.6 percent, followed by far-left Die Linke at 12.9 percent and the populist right-wing Alternative for Germany at 6.2 percent.
The result proved that “the CDU can mobilize voters,” CDU State Premier Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer told public broadcaster ARD, adding: “This also sends out an important signal for the CDU on the national level.”
Saarland was the first election since the SPD named former European Parliament President Martin Schulz as their candidate to challenge Merkel this fall. The SPD has surged in national opinion polls and Sunday’s state vote was a first test of the so-called “Schulz effect.”
Here are three takeaways:
At first blush, Sunday’s result might look disastrous for the SPD: While the CDU and SPD were running neck-and-neck in polls before the election, the Social Democrats ended up with considerably fewer votes than anticipated, around 11 percent points behind the CDU.
At the same time, however, the party did indeed win over some new voters — it just wasn’t enough.
“At the end of January, we were still at 24 percent, and tonight we will likely reach the result of the last regional election,” Schulz said on Sunday evening, speaking to the party faithful in Berlin. In 2012, the SPD reached 30.6 percent of the votes.
The message from SPD during the next couple of days will likely be that Saarland was mainly about state politics but that, nonetheless, the vote should serve as a warning that much more campaigning needs to be done for the SPD to win in September.
“It’s a long-distance run, not a sprint,” Schulz said.
The only coalition possible in Saarland after Sunday’s vote seems to be another ‘grand coalition’ between the CDU and SPD. The conservatives have been in power in the state for 18 years. Kramp-Karrenbauer took over from a CDU predecessor in 2011 and since 2012 she has headed a ‘grand coalition’ with the SPD.
Ahead of Sunday’s vote, the SPD had sent out signals that it was willing to consider a coalition with Die Linke instead, which would allow them to push Kramp-Karrenbauer out of office even if she managed to win the most votes in the state. Few, however, had expected the popular Kramp-Karrenbauer to bring home such a strong result, which makes a so-called “red-red” coalition in the state virtually impossible.
“During the last couple of days, it became clear that the SPD would be willing to go down the path of a red-red coalition. This mobilized voters,” Kramp-Karrenbauer told ARD. “Today was a vote for a grand coalition.”
And yet, there’s one important thing to keep in mind…
Although the vote attracted wide interest far beyond the state’s borders, the election in rural Saarland isn’t the most important regional election this year — that is yet to come.
With an electorate of only around 800,000, Saarland is too small to offer a clear picture of voting intentions of the roughly 61.5 million Germans who are eligible to vote in the fall.
The next state election is in Schleswig-Holstein on May 7, with about 2.3 million people eligible to vote — but all eyes are on the vote in North-Rhine Westphalia on May 14, which will be the most important state election to watch this year, with 13 million voters.
The center-right GERB party has won a slight majority in Bulgaria’s general elections Sunday, according to early results.
Former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov‘s party appears set to take about 32.6 percent of the vote, according to the country’s electoral commission.
The socialist BSP is set to come in second with 27.1 percent, and the United Patriot coalition of radical nationalist parties share third place with the Turkish DPS, with both parties around 9 percent. Another two parties look set to enter the parliament — the newcomer “Volia” founded by the businessman Vesselin Mareshki — and the right-wing Reformist bloc, which is currently teetering on the edge of the 4 percent barrier.
This makes it easier for Borisov to form a coalition since he already had one with the Patriots and the Reformist bloc before quitting as prime minister after his center-right party lost last November’s presidential election to a Socialist candidate.
GERB, which has yet to lose a general election since its creation 10 years ago, managed to see off a challenge from the resurgent Socialist Party. The BSP leader Kornelia Ninova struck a strident pro-Moscow, anti-Western tone that has gone over well with certain groups of voters, but proved insufficient to win the election.
Forming a government, however, will still be a challenge. After the last elections in 2014, it took more than a month to form a coalition.
Two smaller parties — Yes, Bulgaria and New Republic  — who campaigned on a platform of anti-corruption and judicial reform, failed to reach the 4 percent barrier.
A party backed by the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan named DOST also failed to enter parliament, according to the polls.
This article has been updated with new electoral data.
BERLIN — German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives got some much-needed good news on Sunday, winning big in regional elections in the state of Saarland.
The Christian Democrats (CDU) won 40.5 percent of the votes, 10.5 percent ahead of the Social Democrats (SPD) at 30 percent, far-left Die Linke at 13 percent and populist right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD,) which entered the state parliament for the first time, at 6 percent, according to exit polls by Infratest Dimap, released by public broadcaster ARD on Sunday evening after ballots closed.
Under normal circumstances, the vote in one of Germany’s least populous states might not have attracted much attention. But this year, ahead of Germany’s national election, it has drawn intense interest as an early indication of how well the SPD, revived by the candidacy of Martin Schulz, may do against Merkel’s CDU.
Both the Green Party and liberal FDP failed to get enough votes to get into parliament.
Sunday’s vote was the first of three regional elections this spring.
German chancellor Angela Merkel said on Saturday she hopes tensions between the EU and member states such as Poland and Hungary could be resolved by dialogue, and that threatening them with financial sanctions would not be appropriate “for now.”
In an interview with German public TV network ARD, Merkel, who was answering a question about the two countries, said that it was up to the European Commission to talk with member states on “the substance” of the concerns that have been raised. Member governments will then discuss of their own worries, she said, although she did not explicitly name Poland and Hungary in her answer.
“I do not think threat would be good now,” said Merkel, although she did not rule it out in future. “I would like to make no threat today in this interview, but I would like to see the rule of law respected throughout Europe, as we expect it should be”.
Hungary has been criticised in Brussels for its refusal to comply with a EU agreement on the settlement of refugees, and Poland has raised concerns for its reforms of the judiciary and of the media that are seen at odds with EU fundamental principles. Some have suggested that the EU could use the threat of withholding so-called “structural funds” to force a compromise.
ROME — The EU will move on with further integration without always waiting for the stragglers, European leaders pledged in Rome Saturday.
“We will act together, at different paces and intensity where necessary, while moving in the same direction,” the declaration signed by EU leaders on the bloc’s 60th anniversary said.
It added that this would happen “as we have done in the past, in line with the Treaties and keeping the door open to those who want to join later,” a move to accommodate criticism most articulately voiced by Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel echoed the softeners in the text when she told reporters that “we want to get in the same direction” but spoke of a multispeed EU as a reality: “A Europe of different speeds doesn’t mean that it’s not a common Europe,” she said after the ceremony.
Luxemburgish Prime Minister Xavier Bettel told the AP that he “preferred a two-speed Europe to a cul-de-sac and no speed at all.” The two-speed idea, he claimed, was originally one by the Benelux countries. “We in Benelux were alone at the beginning, but then one country after other joined because we saw that certain countries took us as hostages,” he said, referring to Poland’s unsuccessful fight against European Council President Donald Tusk’s reappointment earlier this month.
Tusk called for those who are unhappy to work constructively together. “Today it is not enough to call for unity and to protest against multiple speeds,” he said in a speech in front of the 27 EU leaders (minus Britain’s Theresa May who is busy writing a letter to formally trigger Article 50 that will be delivered in Brussels on Wednesday).  
“It is much more important that we all respect our common rules such as human rights and civil liberties, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly, checks and balances, and the rule of law,” Tusk said, referring to his home Poland and echoing repeated calls by the European Commission for the Warsaw government to respect judicial independence.   
“Europe as a political entity will either be united, or will not be at all,” Tusk said, adding that “the unity of Europe is not a bureaucratic model. It is a set of common values and democratic standards.”
The summit marked the signature of the Treaties of Rome in 1957, which Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker praised as having “sealed our Union forevermore.” He said the people in the room should be proud of having seen decades of peace on the EU’s territory.
“After so many wars, so many battles — why are we not proud of this? Because it wasn’t our generation but our predecessors?” Juncker said. 
Tusk drew more concrete lessons from history. “Today in Rome we are renewing the unique alliance of free nations,” Tusk said. The “great predecessors” of today’s leaders “at that time did not discuss multiple speeds, they did not devise exits, but despite all the tragic circumstances of the recent history, they placed all their faith in the unity of Europe,” Tusk said. 
ROME — Europe’s prominence descended on the Italian capital Saturday to celebrate their Union’s 60th anniversary with a single aim: fare bella figura.
After a year in which the EU has had to stomach the Brexit vote, bitter fights over refugees and the resurgence of far-right populism, failure was not an option. Yet for a club riven by division over matters large and small, keeping up appearances was no small order.
The setting, a vast palazzo on Capitoline hill that was once the site of a temple ancient Romans believed would stand for eternity, offered an apt reminder of the EU’s own fragility.
But somehow — whether inspired by the weight of the moment, the ghosts of their predecessors or the warm Roman spring — the 27 heads of government and state, pulled it off. For a day, at least, they put their squabbles aside to celebrate the unlikely success of an idea born out of catastrophe.
Gathered in the hall of Horatii and the Curiatii, the opulent marbled chamber where the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957, the Continent’s leaders reasserted the EU’s founding principles, while vowing to carry the region’s integration forward.
One by one, the leaders were called to a wide table at the head of the hall to put their signature to an 800-word document dubbed the Rome Declaration. Each signature, all in thick black ink from the same hefty pen, was greeted with a round of applause, backslaps and smiles.
What looked effortless from afar, was preceded by weeks of pitched debate and recriminations over the content of the declaration. In particular, Poland and Greece objected to key aspects of the text, threatening to upend the show of unity.
Both governments were trying to send a signal to their electorates. Poland needed to show it is still listened to by Brussels after losing out in the vote on the reappointment of Donald Tusk as European Council president. Greece needs to sell another round of economic reforms demanded by Europe to its skeptical public.
Just hours before the signing, having sated their home crowds’ appetite for defiance, they dropped their objections.
When Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras signed, someone from the audience muttered “at last.” After Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło signed, she made a gesture that an aide to one prime minister interpreted as, “You see? I did it.”
“I believe that what we succeeded to do in the past days and hours marks a new awakening,” a visibly relieved Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters afterward. “Contrary to expectations, it didn’t come to a clash.”
That was in large part due to the day’s careful choreography. Unlike most EU summits, which are followed by a cacophony of conflicting messages when leaders speak to the press, the organizers left nothing to chance.
Leaders were kept on a tight leash. Instead of individual national press briefings, the ceremony was followed by a press conference hosted by Juncker, Tusk, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, European Parliament President Antonio Tajani and Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, whose country holds the rotating EU presidency. Though hundreds of journalists were in attendance, they took just a handful of questions.
Juncker offered a very Italian justification for calling it short: “I’m hungry,” he said before following the other leaders to the presidential palace for lunch with Italy’s president, Sergio Mattarella.
The ceremony itself lasted little more than an hour, with five set-piece speeches.
The high point came during an address by Tusk, who was born in the same year of the Rome Treaty. He recalled his childhood behind the Iron Curtain in the rubble of Gdańsk, a city destroyed during the war.
“Back then, that really was a two-speed Europe,” he said. “And that is why today I have the right to loudly repeat this simple truth: that nothing in our life is granted forever; that to build a free world requires time, great effort and sacrifice … To destroy such a world is very easy. It only takes a short moment. As it happened once, with my Gdańsk.”
Tusk’s remarks, the most personal of the day, left many of those present, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, visibly moved.
The weighty tone for the day’s festivities was set Friday night, when leaders were received in the Vatican by the Pope.
The pontiff urged them to resist the “false forms of security” promoted by populist parties across the Continent.
“Europe finds new hope in solidarity, which is also the most effective antidote to modern forms of populism,” the Pope told them.
The EU’s success “will depend on its readiness to work together once again, and by its willingness to wager on the future.”
He got his message across — Szydło energetically kissed his ring after the speeches.
The big question hanging over the meeting was whether the show of solidarity on display in Rome will last. In the coming months, the EU’s remaining 27 will not only have to find common purpose over Brexit. The biggest challenge they face will be to agree on a broader overhaul of the Union, which for all its success, is in sore need of reform.
To push the project forward, Juncker told his colleagues, will require more confidence.
“We’re not proud enough of what we’ve achieved in Europe,” he said.
Tens of thousands of people took to the streets of London on Saturday to protest against the U.K.’s decision to leave the European Union.
The demonstration, which ended with an afternoon rally on London’s Parliament square, took place in spite of concerns it might stretch resources of the police after the terror attacks near Westminster earlier this week.
Demonstrators stood for a minute of silence before speakers started to address the crowd. “Before we talk about Brexit, (…) we need to recognise that something really bad happened not far from here just the other day,” said Alastair Campbell, the former PR chief for ex-Prime Minister Tony Blair.
“We are defiant against those who would seek us to be afraid about last Wednesday,” said Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, who went on: “We are also defiant because democracy did not end on the 23rd of June.”
Farron said he wasn’t speaking just for the 48 percent who voted for Britain to remain in the EU last June, saying many who voted to leave don’t agree with the “hard Brexit” approach of Prime Minister Theresa May. “She does not speak for 52 percent, she barely speaks for 5 percent,” Farron said.
Seb Dance, a Labour MEP for London, struck a similar tone, saying that the Brexiteers were the ones “denying reality”, and making clear he thought remainers hadn’t lost all hope of reversing the current course of events: “We will never be cowed, we are here to stand for our beliefs,” he said.
The protest was organized by Unite for Europe, an umbrella group for organizations who are campaigning to “limit the damage” of Brexit, along with several other pro-European groups.
The 3 Million, representing EU nationals living in Britain, was one of the march’s co-organizers, and many citizens from all of the EU joined the march alongside Britons.
A message on the Unite For Europe site explaining the motivation behind the march reads: We are the 48% who voted against Brexit and those who were not allowed to vote against it – the young and the EU nationals living, working and paying taxes in the UK. We are outraged by the government’s current direction in dealing with the result of the referendum.”
Protesters on the march used humour to make their point. One banner read: “Tomorrow the clocks go forward one hour. One Wednesday they go back 40 years”. Another asked: “How are we going to win Eurovision now?”
The march was scheduled to coincide with the triggering by the UK government of the so-called article-50 clause allowing a member to leave the European Union, which prime minister Teresa May informed the European Council will happen on March 29.
It is also taking place as the heads of state and government of the other 27 EU members are gathered in Rome to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Rome Treaty which founded the then-European Economic Community, later to become the EU.
Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission — the EU’s executive body — said Saturday in Rome that it was a “tragedy” that Europe would have to celebrate that anniversary without Great Britain.
The U.K. Independence Party’s only member of parliament has announced that he is quitting the party.
Douglas Carswell, who is MP for Clacton, on the Essex coast, will now sit as an independent. He said he was leaving the party “amicably, cheerfully and in the knowledge that we won” but in recent months he has clashed publicly with the party’s former leader Nigel Farage. In February, Farage said he had tried to sabotage his leadership and should leave the party. The party’s major donor Arron Banks has said he wanted to unseat Carswell.
Farage tweeted that Carswell had, “jumped before he was pushed.” On Monday, he had been due to meet the party’s National Executive Committee to answer questions about whether he had sought to minimise Farage’s involvement in the Brexit referendum campaign.

In a post on his website Carswell wrote: “Our party has prevailed thanks to the heroic efforts of UKIP party members and supporters. You ensured we got a referendum. With your street stalls and leafleting, you helped Vote Leave win the referendum. You should all be given medals for what you helped make happen — and face the future with optimism.
“Like many of you, I switched to UKIP because I desperately wanted us to leave the EU. Now we can be certain that that is going to happen, I have decided that I will be leaving UKIP,” he added.
The message concludes: “Cheer up! The days when small elites can try to arrange human social and economic affairs by grand design are coming to an end. Change is coming — Brexit is just the beginning.”
The UKIP leader Paul Nuttall released a statement saying Carswell’s departure was not a surprise. “Douglas was genuinely committed to Brexit, but was never a comfortable Ukipper,” he wrote. “We now have an opportunity to put behind us the most damaging internal conflict which has dogged us over the past year, and look forward with optimism and unity of purpose to the very real challenges of policing Brexit and further reforming the vigorous democracy of the UK.”
Banks tweeted a smiley face emoji and a green tick.
Carswell was originally elected as a Tory MP in 2005 but defected to anti-EU UKIP in 2014. He stood down and won a subsequent by-election to be returned as UKIP’s first elected MP.
EUROPEAN POLITICS OF RUSSIAN DISINFORMATION: Federica Mogherini’s squad working to counter Russian disinformation and propaganda — known as the East StratCom team — has a problem. Unfortunately for Mogherini, it’s her.
Activists, analysts, national foreign ministries and political opponents in the European People’s Party have piled pressure on the EU foreign policy chief this week over what they say is her insufficient support for a team on the front-line of keeping democracy clean.
MEP Siegfried Mureşan, a member of the budgets committee, is considering offering the team a €1 million grant, in part to make sure European elections do not fall victim to a Russian disinformation campaign.
The funding would be a boost to a team that has been offered no discretionary budget by Mogherini’s European External Action Service.
Ben Nimmo, senior fellow at the Atlantic Council and signatory of an open letter organized by the European Values think tank that called Mogherini “irresponsibly weak” on the issue, told Playbook that her anti-disinformation efforts are “the most token of token efforts. The East StratCom team is tiny.”
Nimmo said the team relies on staff loaned from EU member countries and Playbook sources said much of its information gathering is carried out by volunteers in countries such as Ukraine and Georgia. In contrast, the work of most EEAS teams is funded by generous diplomatic salaries and operating budgets.
Mogherini told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour this week that European societies have the “wisdom to make the right choices” in the face of Russian fake news and cyber warfare, and took credit for setting up the East StratCom team in 2015, at the request of the European Council.
An EU official familiar with the group’s work said, “It’s known that she [Mogherini] is not keen. She is considered to be soft on Russia compared to others in the Commission, or what some Eastern countries would like. Officials who work on these issues get no support from her.”
Sandra Kalniete, a Latvian European People’s Party MEP born in Siberia, told Playbook: “In a world where Donald Trump becomes a purveyor of RT [Russia Today] disinformation, I don’t believe the EU can afford to save on strategic communication, information literacy and critical thinking.”
Mureşan said “I am deeply disappointed at the EEAS’ meager efforts to counter the Russian information warfare on European countries.” He said: “It is unacceptable that our societies are under daily assault from [the] Russian propaganda machine. We cannot just keep on stating intentions and work with a understaffed unit in the EEAS when our democracies are under threat.”
The next act in this political theater will be at the EPP’s annual congress in Malta on March 29 and 30, where the party is expected to adopt a resolution on “Russian disinformation undermining Western democracy.”
The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs told Playbook it was a core supporter of the East StratCom team: “We believe that the task force is doing an excellent job in exposing and explaining Russian disinformation,” it said. However, Estonia wants “more permanent resources” beginning with “permanent staff and sustainable budget.”
GREEKS, THE NEW POLES? Discussions between EU diplomats on the content of this weekend’s Rome Declaration have been tense, with serious debate about how much its should focus on social laws. Negotiations were nearly over when the Greeks demanded an extra clause saying all EU countries should respect the bloc’s social and employment laws. At the other end of the spectrum, the Poles and Hungarians, ever watchful for signs of Commission meddling in their national affairs, demanded weaker language. Speculation in Brussels is that the Greek government wants more than a social EU: it wants another bargaining chip in its long-stalled bailout negotiations.
SEPARATED AT BIRTH
Former U.K. Chancellor George Osborne and French presidential candidate Benoît Hamon.

GAFFES AND LAUGHS
Marine Le Pen, fashion plate: Christopher McGill, assistant to Syed Kamall, leader of the European Conservatives and Reformists group in the European Parliament, met with Marine Le Pen last week, and asked about her fashion sense. “It was interesting interviewing Marine Le Pen for my dissertation,” he said on Facebook. “We spoke about next month’s presidential elections, the EU, and fashion” A picture of the two of them was “liked” by 154 people, and accompanied by comments such as “You lucky devil! That woman is tearing the rule book up!” and “What a photo!!! Magnificent. So envious. She is wonderfully brave xxx.”
McGill’s political acumen shone through in answers to questions on his Facebook wall. Asked what Le Pen was like, McGill responded: “Very friendly but no-nonsense and sometimes hard to keep her on the question asked.”
Women and wine: Despite hanging onto the presidency of the Eurogroup by a thread, Jeroen Dijsselbloem thought it was a good idea to tell a German newspaper that “I cannot spend all my money on liquor and women and plead for your support afterwards,” in reference to debt-laden Southern EU countries. His comments were described as “shameful and shocking” by leader of the Socialist MEPs Gianni Pittella. Awkward, given that Dijsselbloem belongs to the same political family.
Czech mates: It’s been a busy week for Czechs in the European Parliament. Dita Charanzová and Pavel Svoboda became the first Czech MEPs to co-chair a committee, the internal market committee, at a hearing Wednesday. Meanwhile, MEP and Parliament Vice President Pavel Telicka hit back at suggestions from the Czech interior minister that it would be OK to introduce limits on the free movement of labor in Europe. “The minister spoke contrary to the Czech policy line. He based it on a very poor analysis of Brexit,” Telicka said, adding that such talk undermines the EU27 Brexit negotiating position. The minister, Milan Chovanec, argued that local media had misinterpreted his comments, saying “I just pointed out that we need to reasonably regulate the movement of labor.” Yes, minister, that’s why everyone was so upset.
Suited and booted: European finance commissioner Pierre Moscovici revealed Tuesday that he had received luxury suits as a gift, just like embattled French presidential candidate Francois Fillon. Moscovici dismissed concerns about the gift, received before French rules on gifts for politicians changed in 2012. “They are real gifts by real friends in a private setting,” said the former minister.
FEUD OF THE WEEK
Erdoğan vs Europe. Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan got personal, warning that: “If you [Europe] continue to behave like this, tomorrow in no part of the world, no European, no Westerner will be able to take steps on the street safely and peacefully.” In response, Germany’s President, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, hit back: “President Erdoğan, you jeopardize all that you have built with others.”

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “Democracy took a lot away from us.” Korneliya Ninova, leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, ahead of Sunday’s parliamentary elections.
WHO’S UP
Beppe Grillo: His 5Star Movement is polling higher than ever.
Emmanuel Macron: With Francois Fillon floundering and Marine Le Pen backtracking, Macron is riding high and finished first in polls on how the candidates performed in France’s first presidential debate.
WHO’S DOWN
Lodewijk Asscher: The parliamentary leader of the Dutch Labor Party was pummeled in last week’s election.
Yulia Samoylova: Russia’s Eurovision Song Contest entrant was barred from Ukraine, this year’s host, because she made an “illegal” visit to Crimea.
The world’s most complex democratic experiment took shape 60 years ago this week in the lingering shadow of the world’s greatest, ugliest war.
From those early days of six members through to today’s 28 and soon to be 27 members, it’s been a rollercoaster ride all the way.
Once harshly divided, Europe is now far more united, and undeniably richer.
Yet as the EU turns 60, just how much of that success is due to the EU’s existence and the directives and regulations fashioned in Brussels and adjudicated in Luxembourg is still a matter of fierce debate.
Here are the key moments:
The original Six Nations (the post-war peaceniks, not the rugby tournament) of Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg refashion their coal and steel community into a customs union and the beginnings of a common market based on free movement of capital and goods. They do this via two Treaties of Rome, which establish the European Economic Community (EEC) and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM). There are plenty of Founding Fathers, but no Founding Mothers.
The Committee of Permanent Representatives (COREPER) is established. This is the beginning of six decades of multilingual non-intuitive European acronyms, made-up words, and other forms of cruelty to language. Citizens everywhere, to the extent that they ever pay attention, are flummoxed. From semesters to comitology, from Antici to trilogues, the citizens of Brussels now stumble, punch-drunk, through such sentences as this: “The new MPCC for CSDP will be there in the EUMS.” Fonctionnaires receive nothing more than a 40 percent tax break to compensate for this hardship.
Throughout the 1960s EFTA exists as a viable (and more worldly) rival to the new European community, and with more members: Austria, Britain, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden and Switzerland. Its lower and looser ambitions hold back the growth of the European Economic Community that will later become the European Union.
Fifty years of ceaseless scrapping over the Common Agricultural Policy, sovereignty, Brussels-driven taxation and the use of majority voting in the European Council crystallized for the first time in 1965 when a petulant Charles de Gaulle withdrew his permanent representative to the EEC and stomped away from summits until he got his way. The Great National Sulk is now firmly established as a European diplomatic ploy.
Fearing a dilution of their highly prized sovereignty, won and lost and won again in Arctic conditions, the Norwegians turned their backs on the euro tribe in a referendum on membership. Decades before Tinder was invented, the Norwegians swiped left on the EEC’s profile before they’d even had a chance to get to know each other. It would be decades before a second date took place. The United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark had no such qualms (possibly because the U.K. skipped the pesky referendum part), and jumped straight into bed with the frisky EEC.
Auschwitz survivor Simone Veil becomes the leader of the first elected European Parliament, and Margaret Thatcher takes over as U.K. prime minister. It will be another decade before anyone thinks to nominate a female European commissioner, another two before there is a second female Parliament president, and three decades before Cathy Ashton and Catherine Day become the EU’s chief diplomat and the Commission’s top civil servant, respectively. There has never been a female Commission or Council president.
Émile Noël retires as secretary general of the Commission after 30 years on the job, dating back to the very first day of the new European Commission. As many as five people hold the post over the next 30 years. The principal legacy of Noël’s bureaucratic marathon is the influence of French administrative methods and the widespread use of the French language in the European institutions.
The dramatic moment ushers in a new era for Europe, in which East and West converge. Not only that, it leads to the reunification of Germany and reignites the debate over how the rest of Europe can keep Germany — now the Gulliver in Lilliput — pinned to the ground. One of the solutions will be the euro, as much a shackling device as it is a currency.
Jacques Delors’ great achievement, the EU single market, is born — the culmination of a tortured six-year pregnancy that began with the Single European Act. Although the policy was partly inspired by Thatcher, she fought Delors on it anyway. Despite its occasional growth spurts and being the apple of the eye of its Europhile parents, the EU single market has suffered from arrested development throughout its young life. In her 1988 Bruges Speech, Thatcher inveighed against a European “super-state exercising a new dominance from Brussels.” The Sun newspaper brings its destructive panache to the EU debate with its front page “Up Yours Delors.” (The British tabloids have been at war with Brussels ever since.)
Yugoslavia falls apart and war and genocide return to Europe’s doorstep. The EU, a body set up to ensure peace, watches impotently as its neighbors massacre each other in a series of atavistic meltdowns. The U.S. steps in to knock Balkan heads together and negotiate peace accords. The ethnically motivated conflicts peter out only in 2001, and the EU starts to bring the region under its wing.
This treaty, thrashed out in a snoozy little town at the intersection of Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, is a high-water mark of euro-optimism, laying the groundwork for the euro and for ever greater union. Maastricht established clear rules for foreign and security policy as well as justice and home affairs. The European Community officially became the European Union.
Seventy-five years after Austria lost an empire, it is accepted into the EU. Having come to the party far too late, Vienna’s grand state buildings can’t be put to EU use, and the Union is stuck with dreary Strasbourg and Luxembourg as its “homes” outside Brussels. The next day, Hungary — the other wing of the former Austro-Hungarian empire — becomes the first former Soviet satellite to apply for membership.
The Schengen Accord enters into force. No more border checks! No more hassle! Europe will live life in the borderless VIP lane. While the EU captures the popular imagination with this step forward, it’s a shame no one stops to create a coast guard, or a unified software system to monitor those coming and going in the Continent’s visa-free travel zone. (In a sign of things to come, the U.K. scoffs at Schengen and says no thank you.)
With the establishment of the European Central Bank, the EU joins the global race to elevate central bankers to the status of pinstripe-wearing Gods. The move follows on the heels of the rise of former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and the Bank of England’s newly granted independence.
Commissioners quit en masse in the wake of allegations of widespread fraud, including against Édith Cresson. The French commissioner paid her retirement-aged lover as a staff member and oversaw the disappearance of EU research funds. Under siege, Cresson developed a newfound interest in civil rights, but failed in her effort to establish the right of political elites to sleep with their own kind while sending the bill to taxpayers.
The European Commission recommends that Greece become the 12th member of the eurozone based on falsified economic indicators. Economists everywhere warn that the eurozone’s governance is incomplete, akin to a half-built house that won’t be able to weather a cyclone.
Travelers everywhere celebrate not having to pay extortionate “cambio” fees while traveling, thanks to the euro, which quickly gains the status of the world’s No. 2 currency behind the U.S. dollar — and hands itself a financial time-bomb in the process. Germany, which can cope with the debt, borrows more cheaply than ever to become a global export powerhouse that will dominate other European economies. Others also borrow like the Germans, but fail to remember that they are Spaniards, or Italians, or … Greeks.
The Commission blocks a proposed merger between American companies GE and Honeywell, and proves it can set the global agenda on competition policy. The power play infuriates the Americans, who invented the field of antitrust and now see their companies become dartboards for Brussels. Fifteen years later, a string of billion-euro fines, repayment orders, and multi-year investigations will leave the world’s biggest companies, including Microsoft, Apple, Google, Gazprom, Heineken and Saint-Gobain, thoroughly dazed and confused.
There are scenes of exalted celebration in eight former communist states, as well as in wee Cyprus and mini Malta, which join the club’s ranks as part of the EU’s biggest enlargement effort. For the first time, more than half of European countries are members of the Union. Old Europe starts to get jittery.
A European constitution is drafted with great fanfare. Some of its authors hope it will become Europe’s version of the U.S. constitution — a template for democrats worldwide. But voters in France and the Netherlands ruin the dream, rejecting the constitution and throwing the Union into a “period of reflection.” The EU emerges from its depression by crafting the Lisbon Treaty — which is again rejected, this time by the Irish.
The global financial crisis, which the EU initially blamed on American cowboys, hits home. It sees the EU supervising the rescue of one bank a day, puts the Union’s single market at risk, and sends unemployment soaring, growth plummeting and several countries into humiliating EU-funded bailouts. Most European governments have blithely neglected to implement structural reforms that would have helped their economies absorb the shockwaves, but they find it easier to blame Wall Street, George W. Bush … and Brussels.
The Union strengthens its arsenal by establishing a bailout fund and banking union. It is ruthless in spanking countries that have broken the EU’s budget rules and need a bailout, especially Greece. But there are successes in Ireland, Portugal and Spain, which take their bitter medicine and turn their budgets around.
The EU has a visa-free travel zone without any real migration policy or effective external border. This calamitous oversight becomes apparent in the summer of 2015, as refugees and economic migrants flood into the EU, skirting makeshift border fences and heading for Germany. “Mutti” Merkel establishes herself as the new face of global liberalism by welcoming them with open arms. Brussels is sidelined as national governments initially come to an agreement on refugee relocation and resettlement, then largely refuse to implement it.
The U.K. votes to leave a union it never fully embraced, setting off an existential crisis among the bloc’s 27-member rump. Britain’s vote comes to symbolize a strain of nationalist populism that imperils the Union ahead of a string of national elections. As officials on both sides of the Channel mud-wrestle over the logistics and implications of untangling Britain from Brussels, Brexit becomes the EU’s obsession, with negotiations threatening to drag on well past the two-year limit set out by Article 50.
This article has been updated to correct a reference to referendums in 1972 and to ‘former Soviet states’ joining in 2004.
As European leaders gather in Rome on Saturday to decide what future they want for Europe, we asked you to vote for the future of Europe you want.
Earlier this month, the European Commission put out a white paper that envisages five scenarios for the EU by 2025. We don’t know which one they will back but the results from our poll were clear:
47 percent wanted Scenario 5: Doing much more together — also known as the “Verhofstadt scenario,” named after MEP and former Belgian prime minister Guy Verhofstadt, a leading proponent of federalism.
24 percent backed Scenario 3: Those who want more do more. That’s German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s preferred option: a multispeed Europe.
16 percent wanted Scenario 4: Doing less more efficiently —  to focus attention and limited resources on a reduced number of areas.
10 percent supported Scenario 2: Nothing but the single market.
Just 2 percent of voters wanted Scenario 1: Carrying on — the most minimalist of the scenarios, carrying on with just incremental changes.

More than 1,400 people voted.
 
The man who took over French presidential candidate François Fillon’s seat in parliament when Fillon became prime minister is to be formally investigated as part of the Penelopegate payments scandal, Le Monde reported Friday.
Marc Joulaud — now an MEP — was a lawmaker in the French parliament from 2002 to 2007, sitting in Fillon’s seat while he was prime minister. During this time, Jouland employed Penelope Fillon as a parliamentary assistant — just as Fillon had done. Investigators believe she did not do the work she was paid for.
Joulaud announced that he was under investigation Friday, saying he would answer “all the questions of the judges.”
The investigation into Fillon formally began on March 14, and was expanded to include charges of influence peddling, aggravated fraud and forgery. The scandal has derailed Fillon’s campaign and he is polling third behind Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen ahead of the first round of the election on April 23.
AMSTERDAM — Jesse Klaver, the dynamic 30-year-old leader of the Dutch green party, has fought his campaign for Wednesday’s election like an American Democrat, shaking the Netherlands’ tradition of low-key electioneering by creating a personality-led mass movement.
If the polls are to be believed, his GreenLeft party will quadruple its number of seats in the lower house, potentially propelling it into a role in the next coalition government.
Yet Klaver’s ambitions don’t stop there. As support for the Labor Party plummets, Klaver is positioning himself as the new leader of the left, and even the potential prime minister of a progressive coalition. That might sound preposterous for a party with just four MPs. But Klaver told POLITICO this was a “realistic” prospect.
“The other parties are not gaining momentum, it’s very difficult for them to win elections. I think we’re in a good position to win,” Klaver said, away from a scrum of fans and media at a recent campaign event.
“It’s a reaction to what’s happening in the international sphere. People are afraid of what’s happening with Trump in the United States and Brexit in the U.K. and they’re looking for an alternative. Some hope, some inspiration, and change. That’s what we are.”
“My ambition is to make a government without [current Prime Minister] Mark Rutte,” said Klaver. But if the polls are borne out, the left-wing parties together simply won’t have the numbers for that. What’s more likely is that Klaver will find himself invited to shore up a center-right coalition, forced to decide between remaining true to his party’s ideals and entering power for the first time in the party’s history.
Klaver had his eye on the prize early.
He is an oddly fortuitous figure: aside from his obvious knack for the job, his surname — which means clover, a symbol of luck — has become the motif for the campaign. He became a lawmaker in 2010, aged just 24, and won the party leadership in 2015, announcing immediately that the party’s campaign for the 2017 elections had begun.
The campaign strategy was designed by Klaver and Wijnand Duyvendak. The latter’s career perfectly sums up the party’s transition. Once a radical activist, he was forced to resign as a lawmaker in 2008 when he admitted he broke into the Ministry of Economic Affairs to steal plans for a nuclear plant in 1980s. Now he leads a campaign self-consciously modeled after those of U.S. Democrats, right down to the software used to organize and communicate with activists: Blue State Digital, a company founded by Barack Obama’s former digital strategist.
“Both Wijnand and Jesse were inspired by the campaigs of Bernie Sanders, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. The grassroots way of organizing,” said Marjolein Meijer, the party chairwoman. “This needed a translation as the Netherlands is not used to the U.S. style of campaigning … We needed to start at the very basics.”
It was Klaver’s idea to hold “town halls.” At first, these meetings drew fewer than 200 people. Along the way, the name changed to “meetups,” and they grew, first drawing hundreds, then thousands. Previous meetings had only ever been for the party faithful, to discuss policy in detail.
Klaver uses the meetups to talk about his broad political vision, speaking of “hope” “optimism” and “change” in rolled-up shirt sleeves and slacks.
The new, professional style has paid off. Since Klaver became leader, the party has gained 6,459 new members, a third of them aged under 30. Donations almost doubled the party’s initial €500,000 campaign pot. A dedicated team was charged with assigning tasks to new volunteers, to draw them into the movement. Even long-time volunteers were trained in how to go door-to-door canvassing, a new tactic for a party which in the past mostly handed out flyers.
“The greens are known as people with woollen socks, if you know what I mean,” said Detleff Mellies, a 28-year-old graphic and web designer from the northern Netherlands. He joined the party four months ago in response to what he saw as an “uprising of the far right” in his small village.
Within 24 hours of filling out the online form to join the party, Mellies received an invitation to an online instant messaging channel, where volunteers were coordinating what work needed doing. He ended up helping to code the chat bot that responds to queries on the party’s Facebook page.
“I started to realize GreenLeft was actually a serious political party,” Mellies said. The next thing, he was out canvassing in his village.
When Donald Trump was elected U.S. president in November, it was a confidence boost for the Dutch radical right, which saw in him a likeminded outsider who had swaggered in and upset the system.
Yet Trump was a gift to the greens too. In the 24 hours after his election, 250 people signed up as new GreenLeft members. Party leaders say it had an immediately obvious galvanizing effect.
“I wouldn’t say it was worth it, but it helped,” said Meijer. “It was an influx of people saying: not on my watch.”
Trump is now regularly name-checked in Klaver’s speeches and in campaign material, along with Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the presidential ambitions of Marine Le Pen in France.
“This is not just about elections in the Netherlands, but the whole of Europe,” Klaver told the crowd at his final campaign rally this month. “In the Netherlands, we must show that we are going to stop populism, and that there is an alternative.” The crowd cheered.
This grand finale meetup drew an audience of 5,000 to a concert hall in Amsterdam. Another 8,500 watched a livestream of the event on Periscope.
There were long lines for beer. The vegan wraps sold out. Rapper Massih warmed up the crowd with a tune with the refrain “not bad for a refugee.” A stall sold Jesse Klaver books and GreenLeft bicycle bells.
“It’s good branding,” said Zoe Birkin, a 22-year-old psychology graduate with a green clover painted on her forehead. “It stands for the green movement, but also hopefulness and luck. It’s idealistic, but as a political movement you need a lot of branding in these times.”
Idealism and political reality may be about to meet for GreenLeft supporters. If Klaver pulls off a triumph and increases his party’s seats from four to between 16 and 18, as an average of polls suggest, it will be the party’s best-ever showing.
But it will also pose a dilemma of whether to go into coalition, as will almost certainly be required, with parties on the right. Time after time, this is a path that has ended in electoral disaster for left-wing parties that have shored up center-right coalitions.
“My main concern is that they would really kill what we’ve built. We’d be stepping into the same grave as the Labor Party,” said Mellies, the new member. “It would be such a shame if we get this movement going and it all falls apart.”
STRASBOURG — European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has found a way to revive the now-defunct “Grand Coalition” in the European Parliament: He will meet and consult with leaders of his rival Socialist party every three months.
Juncker announced his initiative Monday evening at a meeting with Gianni Pittella, president of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D), and the group’s 11 vice presidents, including Portuguese MEP Maria João Rodrigues and French MEP Isabelle Thomas.
The meeting was useful in discussing the group’s priorities after the Commission’s launch of its white paper, Pittella told reporters Tuesday at a conference to present the group’s 11 vice presidents to the press.
“We gave our document to Mr. Juncker on five main priorities,” Pittella said. “He has committed himself to implementing some of those priorities.”
The priorities include measures on the rule of law, sustainable development and finances, including proposals on work-life balance and a review of the existing Energy Taxation Directive, according to a document issued by the S&D on Monday.
Other S&D officials said that, through these future meetings, Juncker may intend to revive, in a different guise, the Commission’s regular dialogue with the main opposition party in the Parliament to get its backing on Commission proposals.
Juncker “gave the impression he wanted to continue and work with us” and that he “didn’t want to be exclusively in the hands of the EPP,” a senior S&D official said, in reference to the center-right European People’s Party. “He told the group that Europe was the love child of both the Christian Democrats and the Socialists.”
In December, Pittella announced he would end the longtime coalition between the main center-right and center-left groups of MEPs. EU leaders had relied on this carefully calibrated political alliance to pass significant legislation and manage a series of crises since 2014.
Pittella also ended the so-called G5, the power trust comprising Juncker, Pittella, Commission First Vice President Frans Timmermans, former Parliament President Martin Schulz and EPP group leader Manfred Weber.
Juncker also met Weber and the EPP president Joseph Daul on Monday and the Greens on Tuesday.
A Commission official said Juncker met the main political groups to discuss the future of Europe and “involve them so they can involve their constituencies.”
French prosecutors on Tuesday opened an investigation into alleged favoritism at an event in Las Vegas at which Emmanuel Macron was a speaker, local media reported.
The event took place at the 2016 Consumer Electronics Show and was organized by a unit within the economy ministry. Macron was economy minister at the time before quitting the government and launching a presidential bid.
The Paris prosecutor’s office said irregularities were discovered in the way the event was organized, with public relations firm Havas being given the contract without a call to tender.
An aide to Macron told AFP that the investigation would look into Business France, the unit within the ministry that organized the event.
“It’s in no way a story about Macron,” he said.
The revelations came hours after François Fillon, the conservative candidate in the election, was placed under formal investigation for the alleged misuse of taxpayer’s money.
François Fillon, the conservative candidate in the French presidential election, has been placed under formal investigation over alleged misuse of public funds, investigative journal Le Canard Enchaîné reported Tuesday.
Fillon allegedly paid hundreds of thousands of euros to his wife and children for work they may have not done. He denies those claims, but had said he would quit the presidential race if placed under formal investigation.
However, Fillon changed his mind and pledged to “fight until the end.”
On Monday he presented an amended campaign platform, which he said was aimed at putting the country back “on the road to prosperity.”
The first round of the election takes place on April 23. Fillon is polling third, behind independent Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen.
GLASGOW — Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon could have waited longer before calling for a second independence referendum.
But her decision to speak out this week reflects a fear within her Scottish National Party that if they waited too long, Scotland could quickly find itself enmeshed in a whole new set of trading and political relationships as part of a post-Brexit U.K. that would be difficult or impossible to untangle.
For that reason, Sturgeon demanded a referendum between fall 2018 and spring 2019, when the U.K. government’s two-year Brexit negotiation period will be close to conclusion.
“If we don’t go (for a second referendum) now, if we wait until after Brexit, it could be too late,” a senior SNP source said.
“We could end up so tied to England that independence would no longer be possible,” the source told POLITICO earlier this month.
The next referendum campaign promises to be quite different from the first in 2014, in which 55 percent of voters opted for remaining in the U.K.
Last time around, the Yes campaign that backed independence wanted plenty of time to win people over to their side. This time, the pro-independence camp would like to hold the referendum sooner rather than later — before Brexit is signed and sealed.
“It is the exact opposite of 2014 when the Yes wanted the campaign to be as long as possible, and unionists wanted it over quickly,” said Peter Lynch, senior lecturer in politics at Stirling University and author of a history of the SNP. “This time around unionists will want to hold off as long as they can.”
The U.K. government and Scottish politicians opposed to independence favor a later vote because they do not want to have to grapple with Brexit negotiations and a referendum campaign at the same time.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has yet to accede to Sturgeon’s call for a second referendum. But that position looks unlikely to hold as circumstances have clearly changed dramatically since the last independence vote.
When Scotland opted to remain within the U.K. in 2014, it was voting to remain part of an EU member country. Two years later, some 62 percent of Scots voted to stay in the EU but the U.K. as a whole voted to leave.
On top of that, the SNP won re-election as Scotland’s governing party last year on a manifesto that explicitly stated it would push for another independence vote if Scots were forced out of the EU against their wishes.
So the first battle between the Scottish and U.K. governments this time around is likely to be about when, rather than if, another independence referendum takes place.
Andy Maciver, a former head of communications for the Scottish Conservative party, believes May’s best strategy would be to reach an accommodation with Sturgeon on a second referendum and make a strong case for keeping the three-centuries-old union between Scotland and England.
“There are some who want the prime minster to simply say ‘no, never’ but they are allowing emotion to cloud logic. This would be exactly what the SNP would wish for. They need to get clinical and strategic and leave their irrational emotion at the door,” he said.
Sturgeon’s announcement was loaded with symbolism. Keen to show herself as the leader of all the people of Scotland and a future European head of government, she spoke from Bute House, her official residence as first minister, rather than waiting for her party conference in Aberdeen this weekend.
But even assuming she wins her battle to hold a second referendum, she still faces a formidable challenge to win it.
Support for leaving the U.K. has risen slightly on the back of Brexit — a number of recent polls suggest voters are more or less evenly divided on the issue — but there is no sign of a big swing to the nationalist cause.
The nationalists can make a strong political case for leaving the U.K. on the back of the Brexit vote. They ask why  Scotland should be dragged out of the EU when most Scots wanted to stay in the bloc. Much better, they argue, for Scotland to have its destiny in its own hands from now on.
However, the economics of leaving the U.K. are less favorable than last time out. Scotland’s North Sea oil was a key plank of the independence pitch last time. Now, after more than two years of rock bottom prices, there is little talk of creating an oil fund or using billions in tax revenues to fund a new state.
Earlier this month, Andrew Wilson, a former SNP member of the Scottish parliament and the chair of a “growth commission” established by Sturgeon to re-examine the economic case for independence post-Brexit, said that Scotland could not expect any tax take from the North Sea.
Scotland also does 64 percent of its business with the rest of the U.K. In other words, the U.K. single market is currently worth a lot more to the Scottish economy than the European one.
Yet there could be opportunities for the independence side second time around. During the last campaign, independence was often seen as a leap into the unknown — with question marks over everything from what currency the country would use to what status it would have with the EU.
This time around, Scotland looks likely to get a much more sympathetic hearing in Brussels. The European Parliament’s Brexit coordinator, Guy Verhofstadt, has already said there would be “no big obstacle” to an independent Scotland joining the EU, although Spanish concerns remain about setting a precedent that would encourage Catalan nationalists.
Meanwhile, uncertainties abound about the economic prospects of a post-Brexit U.K., as Britain prepares to head into the unknown by notifying the EU before the end of this month of its intention to leave the bloc.
The new leader of the Irish nationalist party Sinn Féin in Northern Ireland on Tuesday called for a referendum on Northern Ireland leaving the U.K. and joining the Republic of Ireland “as soon as possible.”
Speaking hours after Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon called for a second referendum on Scottish independence, Michelle O’Neill said Brexit would be a “disaster” for Northern Ireland. Fifty-six percent of Northern Irish voters backed staying in the EU in last summer’s referendum.
“Brexit will be a disaster for the economy, and a disaster for the people of Ireland. A referendum on Irish unity has to happen as soon a possible,” O’Neill said, Reuters reported.
O’Neill took over as Sinn Féin leader in Northern Ireland after Martin McGuinness stood down in January because of ill health.
Last November, McGuinness said Brexit would be against the wishes of the Irish people and called it a “political and economic game-changer.”
“Ireland’s place, north and south, is in Europe and leading change in Europe,” McGuinness said.
Sinn Féin did well in this month’s Northern Irish elections, winning 27 seats, just one fewer than the pro-British Democratic Unionist Party.
Welsh nationalists have also called for a referendum on leaving the U.K. to be on the table.
Leanne Wood, leader of Plaid Cymru, said, “The announcement from the Scottish government … shows that any failure by the U.K. government to recognize Scotland’s interests could lead to the end of the U.K. as a state. In that situation, Wales would need to decide its own future.
“Plaid Cymru has said that a remaining ‘England and Wales’ entity was not on the ballot paper during the previous EU referendum. A national debate to explore all of the options, including that of independent Wales, must take place in Wales when that scenario becomes a realistic one.”
This article has been updated to correct the percentage of Remain voters in Northern Ireland.
The man who bankrolled UKIP’s successful Brexit campaign claimed on Tuesday that the party had now suspended him. In a tweet, he said “[I] understand my UKIP membership has been suspended. Interesting times lie ahead…”
When asked why he was suspended, Banks tweeted “apparently for saying current leadership couldn’t knock the skin off a rice pudding !” Banks had earlier criticized current UKIP leader Paul Nuttall for being “weak.”
A UKIP spokesperson told the Telegraph that Banks’ membership had “lapsed earlier in the year,” apparently contradicting Banks’ claims.
Ever since the Brexit referendum last year, UKIP has languished, muddling through leadership crises and failed attempts to make headway in by-elections. Last month, former leader Nigel Farage called for UKIP’s only MP, Douglas Carswell, to resign over reports that he blocked Farage’s efforts to be knighted.
Meanwhile, Nuttall suffered an embarrassing defeat in last month’s by-election in Stoke Central, a constituency that heavily voted Leave in the Brexit referendum last year.
Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis on Tuesday said an independent Scotland would be at the back of the queue if it wants to join the European Union.
“Spain supports the integrity of the United Kingdom and does not encourage secession or divisions in any of the member states. We prefer things to stay as they are,” Dastis said, according to the Guardian.
The minister, on a visit to Latin America, was asked about Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon’s announcement Monday that she intends to hold a second independence referendum and wants Scots to vote on their future in the EU before the U.K. leaves the bloc.
Dastis said Scotland “would have to queue, meet the requirements for entry, hold negotiations and the result would be that these negotiations would take place.”
If Scotland does leave Britain, the newly independent state could not expect any special treatment because it was only an EU member as a part of the U.K., he said.
Madrid is against Scotland becoming independent because of its own separatist movements in Catalonia and the Basque Country.
Turkey will file a complaint with the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe over the detention of high-level officials in the Netherlands at the weekend, Hürriyet Daily News reported Tuesday.
Dutch authorities on Saturday barred Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from landing in Rotterdam after a political rally at which he was slated to appear was canceled. They also detained another Turkish cabinet minister and the Turkish charge d’affaires on their way to the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam, an act that Turkey argues violates the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
“What happened on that night is a clear violation of the Vienna Convention,” a diplomatic source told Hürriyet Daily News. “All these three organizations acknowledge the Vienna Convention as the basis of conducting diplomatic relations. They should have a say on the Netherlands’ clear breach of this convention,” the official said.
Tensions between the Netherlands and Turkey escalated after the cancelation of the rallies. After Saturday’s diplomatic incident, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said, “Nazism is still widespread in the West.”
And on Monday night’s TV debate between far-right leader Geert Wilders and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, Wilders called for all Turkish diplomatic staff in the Netherlands to be banned.
According to the Turkish newspaper report, Dutch diplomats have been trying to de-escalate tensions by verbally apologizing to Ankara for the detention of Turkish diplomats. Rutte had earlier told local media, “I’m going to de-escalate, but not to apologize.” The Dutch foreign ministry was unavailable for comment.
EU and NATO officials have called for restraint from both countries. “Robust debate is at the heart of our democracy but so is also mutual respect,” NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said at a news conference Monday. “Therefore, I will encourage all allies to show mutual respect, to be calm and have a measured approach … to defuse tensions and de-escalate the situation.”
Companies can enforce blanket bans on headscarves for their employees in order to maintain religious neutrality in the workplace but can’t fire staff for wearing religious garb if there’s no rule in place, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled Tuesday.
Barring all “political, philosophical or religious” symbols does not amount to direct workplace discrimination, the court said, but singling out an individual employee because a customer had complained about their headscarf was not allowed under EU law.
The ruling concerned two cases, one in Belgium and one in France, in which Muslim employees were fired for wearing headscarves.
In the first case, the court sided with security company G4S, which fired a woman for flouting company policy that banned overt displays of religious symbols. The employee complained to Belgium’s Court of Cassation, which asked the ECJ to clarify the EU law prohibiting religious discrimination.
The court said that because the company had a blanket ban on all religious signs, it did not treat people of different religions differently, and therefore was allowed to enforce its rule. The ECJ did say it was open to the idea that there may be grounds in other cases to find indirect discrimination, but it ruled out the possibility in this case because the company’s aim “to project an image of neutrality” was a “legitimate aim,” and therefore banning headscarves was “appropriate and necessary.”
In the second case, the court sided with an employee who was fired by consulting firm Micropole after a client complained about her headscarf. The court said that because the company didn’t have a rule banning religious symbols, as G4S did, it was wrong to fire the woman based on “the particular wishes of a customer.”
Security missteps, such as authorities’ failure to share information across country borders, are undermining the EU’s ability to prevent terror attacks, a European Commission task force that analyzed recent terror attacks in Berlin, Paris and Brussels has found.
In a leaked report obtained by the Guardian, the security union task force noted that, in all three cases, the perpetrators had crossed the EU’s external border before committing attacks. Even EU citizens on the European arrest warrant list are able to travel freely “without being detected due to the non-systematic check of EU citizens.”
Authorities also can’t search cross-national databases using biometric data such as fingerprints, the task force warned.
According to the report, the attackers’ ability to move people, illegal firearms and explosives within the EU raises the question of whether the Schengen area ought to be more tightly controlled. “Many of the individuals involved in recent terrorist attacks in the EU had [mostly petty] criminal records,” the task force added.
The task force suggested the EU could consider enhanced police checks in internal border regions and along transport routes, and introduce an obligation for information sharing between all existing EU security databases.
The European Commission is currently considering whether to introduce a European-wide police record information system, the report also noted.
Charles and Marie Fillon transferred to their parents a significant portion of the salaries they received for public-sector jobs given to them by their father, conservative French presidential candidate François Fillon, Le Parisien reported Monday.
Marie Fillon told a hearing last month that she transferred up to 70 percent of her net salary into her parents’ joint bank account, which she claimed was to repay them for her 2006 wedding.
Charles transferred up to 30 percent of his salary, which Fillon’s lawyer claimed was to cover rent and spending money.
The French presidential hopeful will on Wednesday meet with a judge who will determine whether to place him under formal investigation over allegations he misused public funds.
Fillon has come under fire after the satirical weekly Le Canard Enchaîné reported he had employed his wife Penelope as a parliamentary aide and suggested she had done little work to earn her salary. The paper also revealed Marie reportedly earned a salary as a legal trainee while employed as a “senator’s assistant” for her father, earning a monthly salary of close to €3,800. Fillon’s son simultaneously worked for his father and for Nicolas Sarkozy’s presidential campaign.
Former French Prime Minister Manuel Valls slammed a local media report that indicated he would imminently back centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron in the French presidential election, AFP reported Tuesday.
Le Parisien had reported Monday that Valls, who contested the Socialist primaries but lost to Benoît Hamon, was preparing to call on his backers to endorse Macron during a meeting scheduled for Tuesday.
“Nothing in this article is true, apart from the fact that there is a meeting on Tuesday,” said Carlos da Silva, Valls’ deputy.
Hamon, the Socialist party candidate, is currently fourth in the polls with little chance of making it to the second round runoff vote.
Valls has also refused to endorse Hamon, according to Paris Match. Hamon “does not arouse any enthusiasm,” the former PM told the paper.
Polls suggest Macron and far-right candidate Marine Le Pen will go through the second round, with Macron expected to win the presidency.
This article was updated with additional information.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte on Monday told far-right leader Geert Wilders he wouldn’t work with him under any circumstances after Wednesday’s general election.
Rutte told Wilders during a one-on-one televised debate that the far-right firebrand had “walked away from government responsibility” in the past, adding “I am not working with a party like this. Not in a government, not in a minority government with your support.”
Wilders snapped back that voters “don’t believe” Rutte and said ignoring his party during coalition talks would be “a disgrace to voters.”
The two leaders, whose parties are predicted to be the two largest in parliament after Wednesday’s vote, stuck to well-worn campaign themes during the debate hosted by TV program EenVandaag. Rutte said he was the only one capable of governing the country and accused Wilders of not taking responsibility. Wilders accused the prime minister of breaking election promises and not listening to voters.
Rutte said of his social media savvy opponent, “It’s easier to send out tweets, but it’s different to govern a country. Then you’ll have to be sensible.”
“You might block me on Twitter, but you’ll have to listen to me right now.”
An opinion poll published Sunday showed Rutte’s liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) on 24 seats, two seats ahead of Wilders’ Freedom Party. Support for Wilders has slipped slightly in recent days and he has fallen behind for the first time in around two years.
Earlier on Monday, Rutte said he wanted the Netherlands to stop the populist domino effect spreading across Europe, describing the Dutch election as the “quarter finals” with the semi final being the French election and the final as the vote in Germany.
The debate touched on the diplomatic row between the Netherlands and Turkey, which escalated over the weekend when Dutch authorities barred Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from landing in Rotterdam after a political rally at which he was slated to appear was canceled.
After Saturday’s diplomatic incident Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said: “Nazism is still widespread in the West.” Speaking at an awards ceremony in Istanbul on Sunday, Erdoğan said: “I thought Nazism was dead but I was wrong … the West has shown its true face.”
In Monday’s debate, Wilders called for all Turkish diplomatic staff in the Netherlands to be banned.
The debate was at its most heated up when it came to immigration, Wilders’ pet subject. Wilders, a former member of the VVD, said he had long warned about the rise of Islam, which he described as the biggest threat to Dutch society.
Rutte said the EU had managed to control the migrant influx and said the debate should be about attitude, not about religion.
When it came to the economy, Wilders said the Netherlands leaving the EU would be the “best thing that could happen to us.”
“We will get the key to our own door. Don’t scare scare people about the U.K. economy, it’s better than ever,” he said. Rutte said “Nexit” would be “the biggest mistake,” the country could make.
Leaders of the biggest parties will on Tuesday meet for a final debate, hosted by public broadcaster NOS.
The U.K. government’s Brexit bill on Monday cleared parliament after the House of Lords voted down two amendments, clearing the way for Theresa May to trigger Article 50.
The bill needed the backing of both lower and upper houses of parliament but during its first visit to the Lords last month, peers had backed two changes; calling for protection for EU nationals already living in the EU and for a “meaningful vote” on the deal that May strikes with the bloc, rather than the take-it-or-leave-it choice that the government would prefer.
That sent the bill back to the House of Commons which on Monday evening rejected those changes. MPs first voted against the amendment to protect EU nationals by 335 votes to 287. A few minutes later, they voted down a call for a “meaningful vote” by 331 votes to 226.
The Lords were expected to tow the line and not reinstate their earlier amendments — and that’s what they did, voting against a Liberal Democrat call to reinsert the amendment on EU nationals by 274 votes to 135, a majority of 139
Minutes later they voted down a Lib Dem bid to reinsert the amendment giving parliament a veto on the outcome of the Brexit talks by 274 votes to 118 votes, a majority of 156.
The bill will become law once it receives royal approval from the Queen, which could happen as soon as Tuesday morning.
After the votes, David Davis, the Brexit secretary, said, “Parliament has today backed the government in its determination to get on with the job of leaving the EU and negotiating a positive new partnership with its remaining member states.
“So we will trigger Article 50 by the end of this month as planned and deliver an outcome that works in the interests of the whole of the U.K.”
Downing Street indicated earlier Monday that the government never had any intention of triggering Article 50 before the last week of March. A Number 10 official told POLITICO: “We’ve always and repeatedly said ‘end of March.’”
The White House meeting scheduled for Tuesday between President Donald Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been postponed, press secretary Sean Spicer announced Monday, because of a winter storm bearing down on the East Coast.
The meeting between the two leaders has been moved to Friday, Spicer said, following a conversation between the two leaders. Spicer said Friday’s meeting will follow the same schedule of events.
A major, late-season winter storm is bearing down on the Eastern Seaboard, with blizzard and winter storm warnings posted from Central Virginia all the way north to the Canadian border. While only 4 to 6 inches of snow are forecast for Washington itself, accumulations could be significantly higher in the close-in western suburbs. At Dulles International Airport, forecasts are calling for 8 to 12 inches of snow, beginning Monday night and ending during the day on Tuesday.
Spicer said Trump has been briefed on the incoming weather by his homeland security adviser and the acting FEMA director. He said Trump has instructed the acting FEMA head to “lean forward” and be prepared to aid states in need of assistance.
The rescheduled meeting will put Trump face-to-face with a world leader who he lambasted during last year’s presidential campaign over her nation’s willingness to accept refugees from Syria.
Merkel, in her congratulatory statement to Trump marking his election victory, took a veiled jab at Trump’s rhetoric, calling on the U.S. and Germany to work together on shared values such as “democracy, freedom, respect for the law and for human dignity, regardless of origin, skin color, religion, gender, sexual orientation or political inclination.”
Steve Shepard contributed to this report.
Senior EU and NATO officials pleaded for restraint Monday as a nasty political feud between Ankara and European capitals over Turkey’s upcoming constitutional referendum continued to escalate.
All sides were seething after a weekend in which the Netherlands barred Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from entering the country to attend a rally in Rotterdam in support of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s constitutional changes, which European experts have said could potentially undermine the country’s rule of law. Erdoğan, in turn, responded by comparing Dutch leaders to Nazis, echoing a comment he made about the German government last week.
The furor seemed to push the already tense relations between Europe and Ankara to the brink, raising concerns that a fragile deal to stem the flow of migrants to Europe might fall apart. And it prompted senior leaders, including NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, to call on Turkey and its European allies to focus on the more important goals they share including crucial military cooperation in the fight against Islamic State, rather than on a political spat.
“Robust debate is at the heart of our democracy but so is also mutual respect,” Stoltenberg said at a news conference Monday. “Therefore, I will encourage all allies to show mutual respect, to be calm and have a measured approach … to defuse tensions and de-escalate the situation.”
“It’s important that we now focus on everything that unites us,” Stoltenberg added. “NATO presence in Turkey is good for Turkey but it is also good for Europe and the rest of the alliance.”
But far from stepping back, the Turkish government announced late Monday that it would retaliate against the Netherlands with diplomatic sanctions: barring the return of the Dutch ambassador who is currently out of Turkey; closing Turkish airspace to official Dutch flights; suspending inter-governmental meetings, and dissolving a friendship group between the Turkish National Assembly and the Dutch Parliament. A senior government spokesman, Numan Kurtulmuş, who announced the sanctions, repeated the assertion of “neo-Nazi influence” in the Dutch government and said Ankara was acting to protect its “rights and dignity.”
“Turkey will act responsibly and decisively,” Kurtulmuş said.
In a sign of just how tense the crisis had become, there was talk in the hallways of NATO headquarters Monday about the Suez Canal crisis in 1956, when Britain and France bombed Egyptian positions without alerting other allies including the U.S. The point was that things could be worse, but it offered little reassurance, given that relations with Turkey have been in a sharp downward spiral since the failed coup against Erdoğan’s government last summer.
The Turkish president responded with a fierce crackdown that included jailing hundreds of military officers, journalists and civil servants, including members of the judiciary. Those steps, which Ankara viewed as crucial to its security and Europe viewed as overly authoritarian, had already led Members of the European Parliament to call for an end to accession talks with Turkey, which is formally still a candidate for EU membership.
The current feud stems from efforts by Erdoğan’s government to build support among Turks living abroad for the package of constitutional changes with campaign-style events. Austria, Germany and the Netherlands each took steps to prevent such campaigning, raising questions about the potential suppression of free speech that were quickly answered with concerns about public safety and the technical requirements of obtaining permits for rallies and demonstrations.
At the European Commission on Monday, officials sided firmly with the Netherlands, Germany and other members of the bloc.
“The European Union calls on Turkey to refrain from excessive statements and actions that risk further exacerbating the situation,” the Commission’s chief spokesman, Margaritis Schinas, said at a news briefing.
Schinas noted that Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and the EU’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, had worked through the weekend monitoring the tensions with Turkey.
“Matters of concern can only be resolved through open and direct communication channels and we, here at the Commission, will continue to provide our good offices in the interest of EU-Turkey relations,” Schinas said, but he pointedly noted: “Decisions with regard to the holding of meetings and rallies in our member states are a matter for the member states concerned in accordance with the applicable provisions of international and national law.”
Rutte’s tough response, blocking the Turkish foreign minister’s plane from landing Saturday and forcibly ejecting another Turkish minister who drove to Rotterdam from Germany, seem to have bolstered his position.
At a news conference Monday, Rutte said that he had tried to reduce tensions but that Turkey was unwilling to go along, and he insisted that his position had not been altered by the imminent elections.
“We tried to deescalate the conflict,” Rutte said, adding, “To deescalate, it takes two to tango.”
The Dutch prime minister also said that he was pleased by the show of European solidarity. “I was happy with [German Chancellor Angela] Merkel, she told us that Germany is shoulder to shoulder with us,” he said, “I think the French ministers were helpful too. And the European Commission, all supporting our position, that is very positive.”
With each side seeming to benefit politically from the dispute, the chances of tempers cooling anytime soon appeared slim.
In a joint statement, Mogherini and Commissioner Johannes Hahn, who is responsible for neighborhood policy and EU enlargement issues, warned sharply about Erdoğan’s proposed constitutional changes, citing the Venice Commission’s warning of a rollback of democratic freedoms in favor of a heavy-handed presidency.
“The Venice Commission’s comments on the proposed constitutional amendments raise serious concerns at the excessive concentration of powers in one office, with serious effect on the necessary checks and balances and on the independence of the judiciary,” Mogherini and Hahn said. “It is also of concern that this process of constitutional change is taking place under the state of emergency.”
They also warned that approval of the constitutional changes could further undermine Turkey’s prospects of ever joining the EU. “The proposed amendments, if approved at the referendum of 16 April, and especially their practical implementation, will be assessed in light of Turkey’s obligations as an EU candidate country and as a member of the Council of Europe,” they said.
In a statement Sunday, the Dutch government said it had canceled a scheduled rally in Rotterdam, and subsequently blocked the Turkish foreign minister’s plane from landing because of public safety concerns, calling Turkey’s rhetoric “unacceptable.”
The Dutch foreign ministry also issued a travel warning to its citizens noting the “diplomatic tensions between Turkey and the Netherlands” and adding to pre-existing travel warnings about the danger of areas of Turkey near the Syrian border. “Be alert across Turkey, avoiding gatherings and crowded places,” the new warning stated. “Follow the news of the embassy and the consulate general.”
Cynthia Kroet contributed to this article.
This article has been updated with the most recent developments from Turkey.
LONDON — Theresa May will not trigger Article 50 until the end of the month, Downing Street indicated Monday.
In the House of Commons, MPs are debating the government’s Article 50 bill, giving the prime minister the power to formally notify Brussels of the U.K.’s intent to withdraw from the EU.
The House of Lords last week attached two amendments to the bill, designed to give parliament a veto on the terms of Britain’s withdrawal and to reassure European citizens that they will get a guaranteed right to stay in the U.K. after Brexit. Both clauses are expected to be struck out by MPs before the bill returns to the Lords Monday night.
Government officials expect the bill to then be approved by the Lords, which means it could be given royal consent by the Queen on Tuesday morning.
The prime minister has a statement scheduled in the House of Commons on Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. local time, and there had been speculation, which Downing Street failed to check, that she would use the speech to officially kick start divorce proceedings.
However, the government never had any intention of triggering Article 50 before the last week of March, a No. 10 spokeswoman said Monday. The official told POLITICO: “We’ve always and repeatedly said end of March.”
No. 10 is conscious of not offending European leaders by overshadowing the EU’s celebrations in Rome to mark the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which take place next week but which May will not attend. The prime minister is also keen to avoid clashing with the Dutch elections this week and the Scottish National Party conference this weekend.
PARIS — François Fillon on Monday denied planning to submit France to shock therapy as he presented an amended platform he said aimed at putting the country back “on the road to prosperity.”
The French conservative candidate in the presidential election nonetheless kept his program roughly in line with the one he had presented during his party’s primary campaign last year, despite criticism even from some officials in his own party, who feared it was too right-wing to attract the centrist voters needed to win the presidency.
Fillon insisted he was not asking too much of the French people. The real “shock” happened during the soon-to-end presidency of Socialist François Hollande, he said. “Shock is now,” with 6 million unemployed and 9 million in poverty, he declared, paraphrasing Hollande’s campaign slogan from five years ago, “Change is now.”
Fillon had already amended his primary platform even before a stream of embezzlement allegations derailed his campaign in the last six weeks.
A few days after his surprise primary victory last November, he came under attack from both left and right for his apparent intention to privatize part of the French health care system — a proposal he soon yanked from his website.
His promise to shrink the public sector ranks by 500,000 jobs and cut public spending by €100 billion over five years was also criticized as too harsh and unfeasible without seriously compromising the quality of public services.
In the presidential program he presented Monday, Fillon kept that pledge intact. “It is entirely reasonable,” he said, and would only bring France into line with its European neighbors.
Allies of former President Nicolas Sarkozy, who form the bulk of Fillon’s campaign staff and support within the party since many officials deserted two weeks ago, had also called for the candidate to renounce a proposed rise in VAT, saying it would reduce demand and hurt a fragile economic recovery.
But Fillon said he would stick to the proposed 2 percentage-point increase, in order to compensate for cuts in payroll taxes that would benefit households.
The candidate of the Républicains party reiterated that he would front-load his program once in power, and launch the biggest reforms within three months of the election. He added that he would not let opponents such as lobby groups or unions cripple his reforms, since they would have been approved “in a democratic way” through his election.
Fillon presented his platform even as he began another week that will show how difficult it is for him to keep his campaign focused on his reform message.
On Sunday, the Journal du Dimanche said an unknown benefactor had bought the candidate expensive bespoke designer suits, for a total of €48,500, since 2012.
The day before, Fillon had been forced to threaten sanctions against his own party’s officials after an anti-Semitic cartoon depicting his rival Emmanuel Macron had been sent out by the Républicains over social networks.
And on Wednesday Fillon is due to meet a judge who intends to put him under formal investigation over allegations that he put his wife and children on his parliamentary payroll even though they did little work in return.
Fillon’s decision to go back on a pledge to withdraw from the campaign if he was ever put under investigation triggered a major crisis within the Républicains two weeks ago, with most of the campaign’s top staff resigning in protest.
Fillon has lost ground in the polls since the allegations were first published in the weekly Canard Enchaîné on January 25, although he retains the support of about 20 percent of French voters. He is currently running behind far-right leader Marine Le Pen and Macron. The top two candidates will go forward to a runoff on May 7.
In the Central Lobby of the Palace of Westminster are four large mosaic panels depicting the patron saints of the United Kingdom’s four constituent nations — David (Wales), George (England), Andrew (Scotland) and Patrick (Ireland). Their installation was controversial, mainly on grounds of expense, and it took until the early 1920s — by which time most of Ireland seceded from the U.K. — for the quartet to be completed.
But when the mosaics first began to take shape (St George came first in 1870) the union between England and Scotland, which dates back to 1707, was unthreatened by the sort of Home Rule movement then active in Ireland. The nationalism that swept most of the European Continent in the mid-19th century did not reach Westminster, and certainly not as far north as Hadrian’s Wall.
Today, Central Lobby and the rest of the U.K. Parliament building is either under repair or in dire need of a costly and time-consuming refurbishment. The symbolism is inescapable, particularly now that Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has announced she will seek parliamentary approval for another independence referendum, just two and a half years after the last one was held.
During the long campaign of 2012-14, the British government and Scottish proponents of staying in the U.K. opted for a carrot-and-stick approach. The carrot was a (largely honored) promise of more powers for the devolved Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh and the stick was a threat that an independent Scotland couldn’t use the British pound or expect a generous independence settlement.
That approach worked well enough. The pro-U.K. camp won 55 percent of the vote and opinion polls indicate it still commands a majority. But there are serious question marks over the likely organization, arguments and personnel of another “save the union” campaign.
Strengthening unionist hands second time round is the economic backdrop. During the first referendum, nationalists painted an over-optimistic picture of likely North Sea oil revenue, but that — according to the U.K. Office of Budget Responsibility — has trickled to almost nothing. Furthermore, the Scottish Government’s own figures show an annual gap of £9 billion between what Scotland raises through taxation and what it spends on public services — a gap currently filled by the U.K. Treasury.
But a major disadvantage for the pro-U.K. side this time around is, of course, Brexit. In 2014, unionists warned that if Scotland voted “Yes” then it would find itself outside the European Union, an argument now thrown back at them with justifiable frequency. Not only that, but a caricatured image of Britain painted by many nationalists — that it’s run by right-wing Tories who don’t like immigrants — now looks much closer to reality. Unionists, in other words, have an image problem.
Organization is another challenge. In 2012-14, the Better Together campaign was an umbrella group encompassing the Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats. That looks unlikely to be replicated, not least because the Scottish Labour Party is convinced it lost support by being seen to “prop up” the Tories (who remain unpopular with many left-leaning Scots). Instead, each party will probably run its own autonomous campaign, each making its own distinctive case for the union. That allows a range of views, certainly, but it’ll also make the three pro-U.K. parties look as if they’re fighting one another rather than the Yes camp.
Money, however, looks to be no problem. A recent report suggested business leaders were “queuing up” to donate six-figure sums to a nascent No campaign via the Constitutional Research Council, which was recently accused of funneling “dark money” to the Democratic Unionist Party in Northern Ireland to support last year’s Brexit campaign.
During the first Scottish referendum campaign, Ruth Davidson, the charismatic leader of the Scottish Conservatives, emerged as perhaps the unionist camp’s most articulate voice. She’s on record, however, as saying she won’t lead a second No campaign, conscious that the SNP would relish portraying the vote as a choice between them and the Tories.
Davidson’s stance might prove unrealistic. In the absence of anyone else, the media may well identify her as the de facto face of the anti-independence campaign anyway.
Scottish Labour has even more profound problems. Although its leader, Kezia Dugdale, is also an energetic performer, support for the party that dominated Scottish politics for decades is in steep decline (just 14 per cent according to one recent opinion poll) and, more importantly, has lost credibility with the electorate. It also has a dysfunctional relationship with the U.K. Labour Party led by Jeremy Corbyn. On a recent campaigning visit to Scotland, for example, Corbyn said he was “absolutely fine” with a second referendum. The Scottish party, which is formally opposed, was furious.
That leaves the Liberal Democrats, a party still recovering from its decision to go into coalition with the Conservatives at U.K. level following the 2010 general election. It is now a minor player in Scottish politics, although its leader, Willie Rennie, recently attempted to fashion what he called a more “positive” case for the United Kingdom at his spring conference in Perth.
Britain, he told delegates, was “full of people who care,” citing Oxfam and Save the Children, “charities born in the heart of Britain — showing compassion to the world.” Rennie also invoked the National Health Service, the welfare state and historical “figures of progress” such as Emmeline Pankhurst, William Wilberforce and William Beveridge. Liberal Democrats, he concluded, would not just campaign “with numbers on a spreadsheet” but with “smiles in our hearts.”
And there’s the rub: if saving the union rested upon a straightforward cost-benefit analysis of Scotland’s place in the U.K., then the No camp would win easily. But then Remainers followed the same rationale in the Brexit referendum of June 2016 — when a majority of Britons (although not Scots) voted to leave the European Union. And in the United States, Democrats believed voters would see through Donald Trump’s simplistic economics and install Hillary Clinton in the White House.
It’s no longer just the economy, stupid; narrative now trumps conventional expectations of voter self-interest. Like it or not, identity is important. And if anyone is perceived as guardians of 21st century Scottish identity, it’s the SNP. So, whenever unionists make perfectly reasonable points about oil, the deficit or currency, nationalists accuse them of “talking Scotland down.” As Europhiles across the Continent will well understand, defending a multi-national Union that often appears harsh and remote is challenging, and becoming more so.
Polls currently show support for independence at around 45 per cent, as it was in 2014 (although one recent poll put it nearer 50 per cent.) But other surveys also indicate that a significant number of people who voted one way last time may make a different choice next time.
By demanding a second referendum now, Sturgeon is gambling that she can change enough minds as the Brexit negotiations unfold to win independence at the second time of asking. If that happens, then those in charge of restoring the Houses of Parliament in London might find themselves removing that old Victorian mosaic of St Andrew.
David Torrance is a Scottish political commentator.
 
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte on Monday said he wants the Netherlands to be the country that stops the rise of populism in Europe when the Dutch go to the polls on March 15.
Rutte, leader of the liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), said his country should be the “quarter finals to beat the wrong sort of populism,” in a year in which a number of EU countries go to the polls. The semi-final would be the French election in April/May and the final would be the German election in September, Rutte said.
“This is a chance for the Netherlands to stop the domino effect of populism,” he told journalists at a press conference in Rotterdam.
Rutte also ruled out the possibility of governing with far-right leader Geert Wilders, whose Party for Freedom is currently in second place in the polls (22 seats) behind the VVD (24 seats).
“When the [economic] crisis was the deepest he ran away and put party interest above national interest,” Rutte said. He added that Wilders’ “escalated rhetoric,” and his call to ban the Quran would make it “impossible” to work with him.
Rutte said he was worried about the damage to the Netherlands’ image in the world if the far right wins the election. “This is not the time to experiment,” he said.
The prime minister was also asked about the diplomatic row between Turkey and the Netherlands, which escalated over the weekend after Turkish ministers tried to campaign in Rotterdam despite a government ban.
Rutte, whose government has cracked down on Turkish interference abroad, said his harsh stance would not have been any different outside of election season.
“We tried to de-escalate the conflict,” Rutte said, and added: “We will never ever ever negotiate under threat.”
BERLIN — One day before Angela Merkel meets with U.S. President Donald Trump in Washington, her main challenger for the German chancellorship, Martin Schulz, urged the country to exert influence in the world by peaceful means instead of arms.
“Only if we prevent a new arms race we will be able to spend more money on fighting the root causes of conflicts,” he said in a speech at the Berlin headquarters of his Social Democrats (SPD).
His underlying message: Unlike Merkel’s conservatives, the SPD doesn’t want to boost German military spending at the behest of a U.S. president who is so widely disliked in Europe.
The chancellor has her first personal meeting with Trump in Washington on Tuesday. Although the two leaders have disagreed on a range of issues, from immigration to trade, Merkel vowed earlier this year to reach a compromise with his administration on Berlin’s controversial military spending.
Trump has repeatedly called on America’s military allies to shoulder their fair share of defense costs. At present only five of the 28 countries in NATO meet the alliance’s target of spending 2 percent of GDP on defense, with Germany coming in for particular criticism for spending less than 1.2 percent of its GDP on the military despite being the largest economy in the EU.
Merkel assured U.S. officials at the Munich Security Conference in February that her country will live up to its promise to increase military spending, but Germany is gearing up for September’s general election and two-thirds of the country oppose spending more on defense, according to a poll by Forsa from last December.
The SPD, which has enjoyed a boost in the polls since it announced former European Parliament President Schulz as its candidate to challenge Merkel, is trying to revive its appeal to traditional left-wing voters alienated by its partnership with Merkel’s conservatives in the “grand coalition.” Part of that swing to the left is its opposition to using state funds for the military rather than more socially-oriented policy areas.
So far, the change in direction is paying off. A few months ago, the SPD was in a deep slump with the worst support levels in its post-war history. Since Schulz’s return from Brussels in January, it has surged in the polls and an Emnid poll published by the Bild am Sonntag newspaper put it neck-and-neck with Merkel’s conservatives at 33 percent.
Under Schulz, the SPD is also focusing on social injustices across Europe and accusing Merkel of lacking solidarity with struggling eurozone countries like Greece. At Monday’s conference hosted by the SPD with delegates from about 100 Socialist parties — including Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa and Sweden’s Stefan Löfven — Schulz pinned the blame on the long-standing conservative majority in the Council of the EU, which gathers ministers from member countries.
“The Council is the decisive body,” Schulz said in a panel discussion with other European leaders, adding that center-left parties “need majorities in the European countries. We need to win elections.”
Hungarian President János Áder, an ally of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, was reelected by a large majority in parliament Monday.
Some 131 MPs voted in favor of extending Áder’s term for another five years in a second round after he failed to get the required two-thirds majority in the first round, Reuters reported.
Left-wing opposition candidate Majtényi László, a critic of Orbán’s government, received 39 votes.
Áder, who took up the largely ceremonial role in 2012, has been an Orbán ally since the start of his presidency. Hungarian law allows the president to serve for a maximum of two terms.
Poland’s ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party is not interested in dismantling the European Union, the party’s spokesperson Beata Mazurek said Monday.
The comment, reported by Radio Poland, came in response to France’s far-right candidate for president Marine Le Pen, who in an interview with Rzeczpospolita daily said she was willing to work with PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán “to dismantle the Union,” if she wins the election.
“If I am elected president tomorrow, I will take the debate with Orbán on what seems to us unacceptable in the European Union, [the points which are] not tolerated in today’s mode of operation of the EU,” Le Pen said. “I would make the same deal to Kaczyński. Certainly, we will not agree on everything. But after that, each country is free and sovereign to defend its own interests.”
Le Pen said that besides Kaczyński and Orbán, British Prime Minister Theresa May would be another “partner” in dismantling the EU.
In a separate development, the district prosecutor’s office in Warsaw summoned the President of the European Council Donald Tusk to a hearing on Wednesday in relation to a case against former secret service officials, Reuters reported Monday.
“Mr. Donald Tusk has been summoned as a witness in a case against former heads of military counter-intelligence services, who were charged with cooperating with intelligence services of another country without the required authorisation of the prime minister,” prosecutor Michal Dziekanski said.
Jarosław Kaczyński, the leader of PiS and Tusk’s long-standing rival said he hadn’t known about the case before. “I swear on everything holy that I only found out about this [Tusk] today,” Kaczyński told reporters. “It has nothing to do with me.”
Catalonia’s High Court sentenced the region’s former President Artur Mas to a two-year ban from public office Monday and fined him €36,500 for staging an illegal vote on independence from Spain in 2014.
The sentence also included Mas’ deputy Joana Ortega and his education minister Irene Rigau. They were barred from public office for 21 months and 18 months, respectively.
Artur Mas, who had faced a 10-year ban from public office, assumed full responsibility for instigating a non-binding referendum in November 2014 to demand the independence of the region, but denied having deliberately violated the law. “There was no intention of committing any crime or of disobeying anyone,” said Mas during the trial. “If it was so obvious that it was a crime, how could it be that the Constitutional Court did nothing to enforce its resolution?”
The informal vote was opposed by Mariano Rajoy’s government in Madrid and was held in defiance of Constitutional Court ruling five days ahead of the poll that the referendum was illegal. Around 2.3 million people in Catalonia cast a ballot in the plebiscite with 80.7 percent voting for independence.
The sentence is not final and Mas, Ortega and Rigau’s legal teams have already announced that they would appeal to the Supreme Court.
LONDON — It’s official: Brexit may be the end of the United Kingdom.
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on Monday confirmed her intention to hold a second referendum on Scottish independence between fall 2018 and spring 2019, sparking condemnation from Prime Minister Theresa May.
Sturgeon will move a vote in the Scottish parliament next week that will authorize her to begin Section 30 discussions with the U.K. government — the legal mechanism for triggering an independence referendum.
May will have to give consent for any vote to go ahead but privately Downing Street officials concede there may be little they can do to stop one given how politically poisonous obstruction could be.
Sturgeon’s intervention appeared to have the immediate effect of forcing May to delay triggering Article 50 until the end of the month. Tuesday, March 14 had been penciled in as a possible date to formally notify Brussels, senior government officials privately admitted prior to Monday. However, following Sturgeon’s intervention, No. 10 moved swiftly to rule out an early trigger. A No.r 10 source told POLITICO: “We have always and repeatedly said end of March.”
Sturgeon’s speech at Bute House, her official Edinburgh residence, ends months of speculation since the U.K.’s EU referendum, in which Scotland’s electorate ran counter to the national trend, backing Remain by 62 to 38 percent. Faced with the prospect of being dragged out of the EU by their Brexiteering neighbors, Sturgeon calculates that many Scots may harden their resolve and back independence.
“I am ensuring that Scotland’s future will be decided by … the people of Scotland,” Sturgeon said.
The prospect of a second independence referendum in Scotland creates a huge headache for May, who now faces the prospect of fighting a campaign to save the union at the same time as she negotiates the U.K.’s exit from the EU.
A second referendum would also be a blow to the prime minister’s own credibility. As she assumed office last July, she highlighted the importance of the “precious, precious bond” between the nations that make up the U.K.
In May’s initial response Monday, she insisted the Scottish people did not want a second independence vote but failed to rule it out.
She said: “The tunnel vision that the SNP has shown today is deeply regrettable. It sets Scotland on a course for more uncertainty and division. And this is at a time when the evidence is that the Scottish people, the majority of the Scottish people, do not want a second independence referendum.
“So, instead of playing politics with the future of our country, the Scottish government should focus on delivering good government and public services for the people of Scotland. Politics is not a game.”
Inside No. 10, they know the danger of the union falling apart is real, but there is little they can do to stop a second referendum. What May can do — in theory at least — is delay the vote.
In private, Downing Street officials are clear that constitutionally it is in their gift whether or not to grant a poll. But they realize a vote cannot be delayed indefinitely if a Scottish government in Holyrood is determined to hold one. It would be politically poisonous, and denying millions of Scots the right to self-determination would be a very bad look for a U.K. government looking for new friends on the global stage.
No. 10 could, however, refuse to grant a new poll until after Britain has left the European Union in 2019 — or even to demand the SNP wait until they have a mandate for a second referendum in the 2021 Scottish elections.
However, Sturgeon has another card up her sleeve. She could stand down as first minister and refuse to form a government. This would spark early Holyrood elections which the SNP would fight on the single issue of the referendum.
At this point — assuming Sturgeon won the vote — the momentum for a fresh poll would be unstoppable.
The timing of this referendum call is not what the SNP, in ideal circumstances, would have chosen.
Public opinion is still split (50-50, according to an Ipsos/MORI poll last week) and Sturgeon’s central argument — that independence is the only way to keep Scotland in the EU — looks shaky as she does not yet have anything more than warm words from Brussels that Scotland would be allowed to rejoin after the U.K. leaves the bloc. Spain, with an eye on its own Catalan separatists, is still likely to veto any automatic continuation of Scotland’s EU membership.
Nevertheless, Brexit is the biggest opportunity for independence that the SNP is likely to have for a long time — Sturgeon calculated she had to seize it. Both she and May are, in different ways, victims of circumstance.
The first minister told reporters at Bute House that her government had worked hard to find a compromise agreement with Westminster but had been met with a “brick wall of intransigence.”
“The language of partnership has gone completely. If Scotland can be ignored on an issue as important as the membership of the EU, it is clear our voice and interests can be ignored at any time,” she said.
The government issued an immediate statement slamming the Scottish government for proposing a “divisive” referendum that would cause “huge economic uncertainty at the worst possible time.”
Privately, No. 10 blame David Cameron and his Labour predecessors for ignoring Scotland for so long.
“Labour and Cameron did not feel they had to govern Scotland,” the senior government official said. “Theresa has to show Sturgeon she is not on the same level as her. We have to show we are governing the whole country, not just England.”
There is none of the complacency often attributed to Cameron’s handling of the Scottish and EU referendums during his time as prime minister. May’s Scottish joint chief of staff Fiona Hill is “obsessed” by the issue.
They know that while the vote is too close to call, the case for Scottish independence is far from clear. “There is no way they are getting back into the EU after they leave,” the government official insisted. “Spain will just not have it. There’s no way they will agree to let them in.”
With Britain leaving the EU’s single market and customs union, Scottish voters would have to accept the risk of a hard border with England and the almost-certain loss of the pound. And even then, the SNP will not be able to guarantee that Scotland would be allowed back into the EU.
In questions on Monday, Sturgeon was asked if Scotland would “definitely” become a member of the EU after leaving the U.K. Her answer hinted at the problems she might face in a future campaign. “I do accept that will be a process of discussion,” she said.
A hard Brexit may give Sturgeon the excuse to call another vote, but it also removes the soft independence that was on the ballot paper in 2014. It’s now a choice between hard Brexit and hard independence.
Yet on Monday morning Sturgeon sounded confident that this time Scotland really would take the leap.
Do you really think you can win an independence referendum, she was asked. “Yes, I do, absolutely I believe that. I believe in a referendum the Scottish people will opt for independence.”
In 2014 no one in London really believed they would. Fast forward three years and the feeling in No. 10 is anything but confident. This time they really could.
Saim Saeed contributed to this article.
British academia would be devastated if European citizens’ rights in the U.K. aren’t guaranteed after Brexit, dozens of University of Oxford heads said in a letter to British MPs published in the Times Monday.
Promises that aren’t put in writing aren’t enough for European staff, some of whom “are worried, some are desperate, some are already making plans to leave,” Vice Chancellor Louise Richardson and 35 other university leaders said.
“Many of our staff do not know whether absences abroad on research contracts will count against them,” they wrote. “Others do not know, however longstanding their work and residence, whether their children will be able to remain in the U.K.”
The letter was published ahead of a scheduled House of Commons vote Monday on an amendment that guarantees EU citizens living in the U.K. can remain in the country after it leaves the bloc. British Prime Minister Theresa May wants MPs to vote down the amendment.
On Sunday, David Davis, Britain’s Brexit secretary, issued a warning to Conservative Remainers in the Commons not to sabotage the bill or “tie the prime minister’s hands.”
Relations between Warsaw and European Council President Donald Tusk will improve after tempers cool, according to Marek Magierowski, Polish President Andrzej Duda’s spokesman.
While he described Tusk as the “candidate of the European elites,” Magierowski said he was “convinced that once emotions subside,” Warsaw and Tusk would be able to cooperate, Radio Poland reported Monday.
EU leaders reappointed Tusk, a former Polish prime minister, as the European Council president on Thursday, with Poland the only country to oppose him. Warsaw nominated MEP Jacek Saryusz-Wolski for the post instead.
Jarosław Kaczyński, the leader of Poland’s governing Law and Justice party, blames Tusk for the 2010 plane crash in Smolensk, Russia, which killed his brother, then President Lech Kaczyński.
Magierowski said a face-to-face between Duda and Tusk was unlikely “any time soon” due to the Polish president’s packed schedule, but “it is not possible to rule out today that there will be such a meeting.”
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalitions partners want the government to pull German troops out of the NATO air force base in Incirlik, Turkey, in the wake of an escalating diplomatic spat between the countries, Reuters reported Monday.
Florian Hahn, of the Christian Social Union, questioned whether Turkey could continue to guarantee the troops’ safety given the “heated atmosphere.”
Social Democrat and Parliamentary Commissioner for the Armed Forces Hans-Peter Bartels said troops must “feel welcome” where they are stationed, and suggested alternative locations such as Amman in Jordan or Crete’s Akrotiri.
Tensions between Ankara and Berlin have grown after several German municipalities canceled rallies by Turkish politicians campaigning ahead of a constitutional referendum to be held in Turkey next month, with President Recep Teyyip Erdoğan accusing Germany of conducting “Nazi practices.”
On Saturday, Dutch authorities barred Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from landing in Rotterdam after a rally at which he was slated to appear was canceled. Erdoğan called the Dutch “Nazi remnants and fascists,” and several hundred of supporters protested the cancelations in Amsterdam late Sunday. Six people were arrested for disturbing public order and traffic safety, according to local media.
Citing Erdoğan’s comments about the Netherlands, Denmark’s Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen said he had requested a delay to a meeting with Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım, scheduled for later this month in Copenhagen.
The British government will investigate how detailed plans of Prime Minister Theresa May’s schedule were left on a train, the Mirror reported Sunday.
The itinerary included a full itinerary for January 23, including times and addresses of places she was to attend, raising concerns the prime minister’s security could have been severely compromised.
According to the Mirror, a passenger found the documents in the first class compartment of a train heading to Edinburgh.
Former royal bodyguard Ken Wharfe told the paper that leaving travel documents lying around was “inexcusable” and a “serious security breach.”
A government spokesman said authorities were aware of the matter and “will investigate accordingly.”
ROME — When Matteo Renzi decided to trigger a leadership contest in his Democratic Party (PD), the former Italian prime minister knew it was a risk. But the politician once known as “Demolition Man” underestimated the risk of an open left-wing revolt.
The resulting showdown within the PD and mass resignations by left-wing opponents now threaten his ambitions to reassert control over the party, win back disillusioned leftist voters and halt a surge in support for populists. And it could upset his plans for a comeback as prime minister in general elections due by early 2018.
Renzi’s chances of winning the primaries on April 30 hang in the balance, as rival factions within and outside the PD threaten to coalesce into a single, anti-Renzi alliance. This turmoil is a sharp reversal of fortunes for a party once seen as a rare bright spot for the European left, coming at a time when mainstream parties are under threat from a populist onslaught whose potential is about to be tested in Dutch, French and German elections.
In the short term, the split should have few consequences for the stability of the current PD government led by Paolo Gentiloni, a close ally of Renzi who was previously his foreign minister. The new political entity spawned by the schism following Renzi’s decision to force the leadership contest, called the Progressive and Democratic Movement (DP), has pledged to support Gentiloni’s government.
The underlying challenge is to ensure that disaffected PD and DP supporters don’t continue to defect to populist groups like Beppe Grillo’s anti-establishment 5Star Movement and the anti-immigrant Northern League, the emerging force within Italy’s divided right.
“The referendum failure was a big blow to the PD and a huge personal defeat for Renzi,” said Giorgio Tonini, a PD senator and Renzi loyalist. “Renzi’s real problem now is not the dissident split, but the disconnection from a relevant part of Italian society which feels excluded and marginalized by our party.”
Although the schism within the center left has made a dent in the PD’s popularity, polls suggest it is just about maintaining its status as Italy’s largest political force. The PD is running just below 30 percent in the polls, neck-and-neck with the 5Stars, who have lost some momentum because of a corruption scandal in Rome, where they run city hall.
Renzi’s own entourage has been tainted somewhat by an investigation into his father Tiziano, who is suspected of attempting to exert unlawful influence over Consip, a state-owned company that manages public procurement. Tiziano Renzi denies the charges and Renzi has staunchly defended his father, but another figure close to the former prime minister — Luca Lotti, a Renzi aide and the sports minister in the Gentiloni cabinet — has also been probed for allegedly tipping off Consip management to the investigation. He too denies the allegations.
This is all potentially embarrassing for the 42-year-old who stormed to national prominence from his power base in Florence on a promise to drag the country “out of the swamp” by demolishing the old political establishment and boosting the moribund economy.
Renzi’s reputation as a reformer backfired when the electorate rejected his proposals to alter the constitution in a December referendum. Forced to step down as prime minister, he then quit as party leader in a move that was calculated to accelerate a battle for the PD leadership before his rivals could get their act together.
The former premier’s hyperactivity during almost three years in power gained him critics across the PD and alienated much of the party’s left wing, who disliked his overall strategy of pushing the party further toward the center and criticized his failure to improve the situation of young Italians, who still suffer from an unemployment rate of about 40 percent. He also allowed the gap between the north and south of Italy to widen, plunging the south deeper into poverty and mismanagement, critics say.
“We don’t bear the brunt of the party split,” dissident DP senator Miguel Gotor told POLITICO. “It was an unavoidable choice, like jumping out of a car that is going to smash into a wall … Maybe running with two different cars will allow the center left to grow stronger.”
Renzi attempted to address these perceived shortcomings by presenting a new political and economic platform at a three-day event in Turin that ended Sunday, putting a new emphasis on youth opportunities and investments on culture and innovation.
In his closing speech Sunday, Renzi included a touch of self-criticism, saying the PD should now talk about “what has been done and what should be done better.”
“They have tried to destroy the PD. But the real game starts now,” he added, in a clear reference to the dissidents’ schism.
Despite the growing difficulties, Renzi remains the clear front-runner in the party primaries, which will be open to all Italian voters who declare support for the party. He faces two internal candidates: Justice Minister Andrea Orlando and the president of the southern Puglia region, Michele Emiliano. An opinion poll by Index Research put Renzi in the lead among center-left voters with 55 percent support, followed by Orlando with 22 percent and Emiliano with 20 percent.
Emiliano is an outspoken former magistrate with strong support in the poor south, who was expected to join the dissidents in the DP but decided instead to challenge Renzi from within the mainstream party. “We are starting a soft revolution of Italian politics,” he said last Thursday at his campaign launch. “We start from the south, but we want to talk to everybody,” said Emiliano, whose slogan is “We are the party.”
The other rival, left-winger Orlando, has greater credibility among PD lawmakers, which might give him a better chance of forging an alliance in future with smaller leftist parties. Orlando’s soft manner and diplomatic language are in stark contrast with Renzi’s aggressive style, which his critics say poisoned the political atmosphere.
“Renzi underestimated the referendum defeat and focused instead on defying his political adversaries,” Orlando told POLITICO. “The referendum was a turning point: Now we need to regain the confidence of that chunk of Italian society that see us as enemies.”
Whoever wins the party primaries, Italy’s current electoral rules — which differ in the lower house and the senate and lean toward a proportional system — make it unlikely that any of the main parties will secure a big enough majority to govern alone at the next national elections, raising the specter of a new political impasse.
“The result risks being an unstable government or a hung parliament, with small parties regaining huge power as part of fragile coalitions, which would bring Italy back to the old ‘First Republic,’” said Wolfango Piccoli, head of research at Teneo Intelligence, referring to the period between 1946 and 1993 that was dominated the Christian Democrats, who disappeared after the Tangentopoli bribery scandal of 1992.
If Renzi fails to keep the Democratic Party united, he risks being blamed for dialing back Italy’s political clock by more than 50 years and undermining its ability to struggle out of anemic growth, soaring debt, troubles in the banking sector and a host of related socio-economic problems.
AMSTERDAM — As Dutch voters go to the polls this week, one thing is clear: There is a gulf between how the election is seen abroad and the view within the country. Whereas foreign observers see yet another big test of the postwar political order in Europe, for the Dutch, the vote is much less dramatic.
Rather than being a winner-takes-all contest with a clear outcome like the Brexit vote or the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, this is a vote with 28 parties on the ballot, several of which will likely need to enter a coalition to rule — a disadvantage for populist firebrand Geert Wilders who looms large internationally but who at home has found it harder to capture the spotlight.
This year, the spectrum of political parties is even more splintered than usual. At the moment, no single party has more than 20 percent in an average of polls. The parties that dominated in the past struggle to command broad support, while a range of small parties target specific chunks of the electorate. There is one party for people aged over 50, another for animal lovers, and even one for non-voters.
Yet even with such a colorful range of parties to choose from, the tone of the debate has largely been measured. The election has not developed into a clear contest between the two biggest parties, like campaigns in the past.
“Everyone is waiting for the fireworks,” said Koen Vossen, a political scientist at Radboud University Nijmegen. “They’re all playing defensively. It’s like a football match where it’s nil-nil.”
In advance of the March 15 election, here is a primer on some of the most common misconceptions.
Though Brexit and Nexit are often spoken of in the same breath, the U.K. referendum to leave the EU has hardly fueled the Euroskeptic movement in the Netherlands. If anything, it has had the opposite effect as the Dutch observe how the British experiment plays out.
Following the U.K. vote in June, the level of support for leaving the EU among Dutch voters dropped, according to government think tank SCP, and debate about Nexit has largely died down. The only major party in favor of leaving the EU, Wilders’ Freedom Party, has toned down its Brussels-bashing compared with the last election and focused instead on the issues of migration and culture.
That doesn’t mean the Dutch are entirely sanguine about the EU and there has been a debate about how the Union should be reformed. Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s conservative-liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) party wants to put a brake on any further enlargement of the EU club to include new members and limit Brussels’ powers. On the left, the Greens want an EU that is stronger but more democratic.
Wilders, a far-right nationalist politician who has long argued against immigration and Islam, is the leading story internationally.
In the Netherlands? Not so much.
For a variety of reasons — security, a lack of funds, a fight with television producers — Wilders has been notably absent from the campaign trail.
In February, Wilders canceled all public appearances after an officer tasked with protecting him reportedly leaked information about his whereabouts to a Moroccan criminal gang. And Wilders pulled out of a television debate last month in anger after the broadcaster RTL interviewed his brother, Paul, who has been critical of him.
In the past, Wilders has restricted his appearances as a tactic to create excitement when he does appear and his absence may be intended to build interest in a final debate between Wilders and Rutte two nights before the vote.
But Vossen, an expert on the Freedom Party, says there could be a simpler explanation. “Where the other parties have invested thousands in a campaign with professional ads, a whole strategy, and a whole professional bureau of consultants that work for them, Wilders really has nothing,” Vossen said. “He doesn’t have any money, his personnel is maybe 50 people in the whole country. It’s not much. Maybe there are a few hundred people at most who are willing to put up posters.”
Whatever the reason, Wilders’ subtle campaign has not helped him in the polls: In the past month, his support has dropped from 17 percent to 13.5 percent in the Peilingwijzer average of polls.
The Dutch election is often spoken of in the context of two recent political upheavals: Brexit and the election of Trump.
But don’t expect a dramatic populist overturn of the established order in the Netherlands. Not one party currently commands more than 17 percent support.
If the polls hold true, as many as five parties will have to come together to reach the 76 seats needed for a majority in the lower house of parliament.
Wilders’ party, currently forecast to win between 19 and 23 seats, is unlikely to be one of them, given that he’s deeply unpopular with the other political leaders, having insulted them and included apparently unconstitutional promises such as banning the Koran in his election program.
“We don’t know who is going to win,” said Jan Vos, a lawmaker with the center-left Labor Party. “There will be a multi-coalition government. Three, four, maybe even five parties. It’s exciting from a nerdy political point of view.”
Everything could change on election day. The Dutch are notorious for making up their minds late.
André Krouwel, a political scientist at the Free University of Amsterdam, said the breakdown of how the 150 seats in the lower house will be allocated will remain unclear right up to the election.
“Until the last day even up to 20 percent are still undecided. Even on the way to the polling booth, 3 percent still decide there,” Krouwel said. “About 60 seats could be uncertain.”
Denying any collaboration between the Russian government and President Donald Trump’s campaign, a Kremlin spokesman Sunday said the U.S. is humiliating itself with its obsession over Russian meddling.
“The answer is very simple. No,” Russian spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN’s Fareed Zakaria when asked about Russians colluding with Trump’s allies last year. “And the fact that Russia is being demonized in that sense comes very strange to us. And we are really sorry about that, because this — the whole situation takes us away from the perspective of getting our relationship to a better condition.”
The U.S. intelligence community identified Russia as the culprit behind a series of cyberattacks during the presidential election, concluding that the Kremlin sought to help Trump win the White House over Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.
Peskov, who insisted Vladimir Putin’s government has no intentions to interfere in the domestic affairs of another country, said the Kremlin has all of a sudden become a “nightmare” for the U.S., which he suggested is now humiliating itself.
“We sincerely cannot understand why American people and American politicians started the process of self-humiliation. You’re self-humiliating yourself, saying that a country can intervene in your election process,” he said, adding that it would be “simply impossible” for the Kremlin to easily influence an election of “the most powerful country in the world” with its “very, very stable political traditions.”
Congressional committees have launched Russia-related probes, the scope of which include possible ties between Trump associates and Russian officials.
A growing number of people with ties to Trump in recent weeks have disclosed having met with or talked to Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the U.S., including former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who has recused himself from any Justice Department probe related to presidential campaigns.
Peskov insisted there was nothing untoward being discussed.
“This is his job. He was talking about bilateral relations,” Peskov said of Kislyak. “He was talking about what is going on in the United States, so we have a better understanding in Moscow. This is what is being performed by every ambassador of Russia abroad, every ambassador of the United States abroad, including in Moscow.”
Arizona Senator John McCain suggested Sunday “there’s a lot of shoes to drop” once more information is known about President Donald Trump and his associates’ ties to Russia.
In an interview with Jake Tapper on CNN’s “State of the Union,” McCain said he was troubled by a number of things with Russia, including the Republican Party removing a call for defensive weapons to Ukraine from its official platform.
“Clearly, it was not the will of most Republicans,” McCain said. “There’s a lot of aspects with this whole relationship with Russia and Vladimir Putin that requires further scrutiny, and so far I don’t think the American people have gotten all the answers. In fact, I think there’s a lot of shoes to drop from this centipede.”
A growing list of contacts between Trump associates and Russian officials has emerged in recent weeks. Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn resigned after misleading Vice President Mike Pence and the American people about the contents of his communication with the Russian ambassador during the transition. Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from Justice Department investigations related to campaigns following reports that he failed to disclose during his confirmation hearings two past meetings in 2016 with the same ambassador.
Jared Kushner, J.D. Gordon, Carter Page and Walid Phares, who each have ties to the president, have also met with Russia’s ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Kislyak.
“This whole issue of the relationship with the Russians and who communicated with them and under what circumstances clearly cries out for an investigation,” said McCain, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee. “But I would also point out we should not assume guilt until we have a thorough investigation. I’m not judging anyone guilty.”
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara was forced out of his job Saturday afternoon after he bucked the Trump administration’s call for his resignation, ending a stint where he handled high-profile public corruption, Wall Street and terrorism cases and usually scored convictions.
“Today, I was fired from my position as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York,” Bharara, the top prosecutor in Manhattan, said in a statement. “Serving my country as U.S. Attorney here for the past seven years will forever be the greatest honor of my professional life, no matter what else I do or how long I live.”
A senior administration official confirmed that Bharara had been asked to leave.
The Trump administration pressed the remaining Obama-appointed U.S. attorneys to offer their resignations Friday, a seemingly abrupt move that surprised many — including the officeholders asked to leave.
“Preet indicated that he was confused about whether the memo applied to him,” a person briefed on the situation said Saturday. Acting Deputy Attorney General “Boente called him (Saturday) and told him all 46 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys were being asked to step down, which was what the memo said. Boente noted that [Bharara] serves at the pleasure of the president,” the source added.
Bharara responded by asking if Boente was firing him, prompting the acting Justice Department No. 2 official to say he was simply asking Bharara to resign, the source said. A short time later, Bharara posted on his personal twitter account that he had been fired.
It’s unclear what led to Bharara’s confusion about whether he was covered by the broad request for Obama-appointed U.S. attorneys to tender their resignations and whether the confusion may have resulted from the November Trump Tower meeting between Trump and Bharara, who emerged from that session to say he’d been asked to stay on.
Asked to explain why Trump changed his mind from November, the senior administration official said the administration decided to “follow past administrations and ask them all to resign.” Bharara had told associates in recent weeks that he planned to stay in the office and believed Trump supported him.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions and White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, among others, supported the decision, according to senior officials familiar with the matter. Trump has become obsessed over leaks in recent weeks, administration officials have said, and his allies have urged him to purge from the government Obama administration appointees.
Some noted that Fox News host Sean Hannity had a segment on DOJ holdovers Thursday night, and Trump is an avid watcher of Fox News. But administration officials said discussions over the resignations had been ongoing for weeks.
A senior White House official said they expected Bharara to resign Friday night and that the firing was “inevitable.”
Trump’s decision to renege on the apparent agreement was a shot against Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, for whom Bharara worked as a chief counsel, according to a source with knowledge of the situation.
A Schumer confidante disputed that characterization, saying he didn’t ask the president to keep Bharara on but was pleased when he said last year that he would.
“Preet Bharara has been an exemplary U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York,” Schumer said in a statement Saturday. “His relentless drive to root out public corruption, lock up terrorists, take on Wall Street, and stand up for what is right should serve as a model for all U.S. attorneys across the country. He will be sorely missed.”
Trump and Schumer have not spoken in recent weeks and have publicly clashed. “Chuck doesn’t have anything to talk to him about,” one person close to the senator said.
Trump spent Saturday at a golf course in Virginia, convening a lunch meeting with several members of his Cabinet.
Bharara told reporters after the November meeting with then President-elect Trump that he would stay on to serve the new administration. He’s currently wrapping up a criminal investigation into New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and his associates and fundraising, though it remains unclear if anyone will be charged. He’s also in the midst of an investigation into associates of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, charging nine people with ties to the governor late last year.
Joon Kim, Bharara’s former top aide, has been made acting U.S. attorney, Bharara said in his statement. Kim was previously the head of the office’s criminal division before being made Deputy U.S. Attorney in July 2015.
Even with Bharara’s departure, according to a source with knowledge of the situation, the day-to-day work of the office—which would include its current investigation into de Blasio and any investigations the office may be involved with into Trump campaign activity—will go forward uninterrupted.
“We’re not putting the brakes on what’s being done,” the source said.
Bharara was known as something of a swashbuckling prosecutor in New York, taking on insider trading and terrorism cases and winning convictions against several top New York officials, including former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and former Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos.
The news sent shock waves through New York politics, leaving lobbyists and aides to the mayor and governor trying to figure out who would replace Bharara — and whether the investigations would change based on his departure. The prosecutor had earned a begrudging respect in the state, sending subpoenas to some of the state’s most influential donors and scoring corruption convictions against a number of legislators.
The office’s investigation into de Blasio’s operation is expected to wrap in the next month, as prosecutors and FBI agents spent four hours with the New York mayor at a Midtown law firm last month.
Bharara had also struck fear into Wall Street financiers, scoring insider trading convictions.
He is widely rumored to have political aspirations — but has not publicly said if he would run for office.
Trump and his advisers have not identified replacements for the departing prosecutors, including Bharara.
The removal of U.S. attorneys has been politically fraught for years, with the midterm dismissal of eight chief federal prosecutors in December 2006 causing a firestorm that ultimately led to the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.
The timing and scope of such dismissals have often led to charges and counter-charges that they violated prior precedents. President Bill Clinton’s attorney general, Janet Reno, asked for resignations in March 1993, but allowed many U.S. attorneys to stay in place until their replacements could be confirmed.
Resignations demanded after a presidential transition are not always accepted and U.S. attorneys appointed by a prior president — even one of another political party— sometimes serve well into the next president’s term.
Patrick Fitzgerald was nominated as U.S. Attorney for Chicago by President George W. Bush in 2001 and continued to serve in that capacity during President Barack Obama’s first term, much of that time pursuing a prosecution of former Gov. Rod Blagojevich (D-Ill.) for selling Obama’s U.S. Senate seat.
Rod Rosenstein was nominated as U.S. Attorney for Maryland under Bush in 2005 and continued in that role throughout Obama’s two terms. Trump has now tapped Rosenstein to be deputy attorney general.
Colby Hamilton contributed to this report.
LONDON — The U.K. needs to start preparing for the “real” possibility that it will leave the European Union without a deal, the House of Common’s foreign affairs committee warned in a report published Sunday.
Once the British government triggers Article 50, which Prime Minister Theresa May has said she will do by April, it will have two years to negotiate the terms of its new relationship with the European Union. The committee said there was every chance negotiations with Brussels could collapse within the next two years, forcing Britain to leave without even a transitional deal to smooth its exit.
“Even if all sides enter into the process with goodwill and the desire to ensure a successful outcome there are many reasons why the negotiations might fail,” the committee warned. It concluded: “The possibility of ‘no deal’ is real enough to justify planning for it.”
May’s government disputed the likelihood a deal wouldn’t be reached within that time.
“We enter these negotiations aiming for a positive new partnership with the EU, including a comprehensive agreement on free trade,” a government spokesperson said in response to the parliamentary report. “We are confident we can achieve such an outcome and that it is in the interests of both sides.”
The government does, however, recognize the need to prepare for all potential outcomes, including “the unlikely scenario in which no mutually satisfactory agreement can be reached,” the spokesperson said.
The committee of MPs from all political parties highlighted disagreement over Britain’s “exit bill” — estimated by some EU officials to total €60 billion — as well as uncertainty over post-Brexit rights of British citizens in Europe and EU citizens in the U.K., as major stumbling blocks that could cause negotiations to drag talks beyond the two-year limit.
The prospect of a return to a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland; legal uncertainty caused by the “Great Repeal Bill” that would roll back EU laws’ applicability in Britain; and the sudden end of privileged trade ties with Britain’s main international partners were also listed as sources of concern.
Ending the Article 50 period without a deal could lead to a “short, sharp shock” that might force both sides back to the negotiating table, the report stated. The committee also found that in certain circumstances “no deal” might be better for the U.K. than a bad deal, which, for instance, forced London to pay “a large sum to the EU in settlement of U.K. liabilities, with no provisions for any preferential trade arrangements or transitional arrangements towards a mutually beneficial future relationship.”
However, the report said it was “clear” that “a complete breakdown in negotiations represents a very destructive outcome leading to mutually assured damage for the EU and the U.K.”
The reported stated a collapse in talks would badly damage the EU and U.K. economies and damage both sides’ international reputations. “Individuals and businesses in both the U.K. and EU could be subject to considerable personal uncertainty and legal confusion. It is a key national and European Union interest that such a situation is avoided,” the report stated.
President Donald Trump’s revised travel ban executive order suffered its first legal setback Friday as a federal judge blocked the directive’s potential impact on the family of a Syrian refugee living in Wisconsin.
Madison-based U.S. District Court Judge William Conley issued a temporary retraining order at the request of the Syrian man, who is referred to as “John Doe” in court filings. The judge, an appointee of former President Barack Obama, said Trump’s new executive order cannot be used to delay the man’s effort to bring his wife and 3-year-old daughter from the wartorn country to the U.S., but is limited to the individuals involved in the case.
“The court concludes that plaintiff has presented some likelihood of success on the merits and that he is at great risk of suffering irreparable harm if a temporary restraining order is denied,” Conley wrote. “The court appreciates that there may be important differences between the original executive order, and the revised executive order. … As the order applies to the plaintiff here, however, the court finds his claims have at least some chance of prevailing for the reasons articulated by other courts.”
“Moreover, given the daily threat to the lives to plaintiff’s wife and child remaining in Aleppo, Syria, the court further finds a significant risk of irreparable harm,” Conley wrote, blocking application of Trump’s order to the affected family through March 21.
“We’re obviously pleased with this order,” said Vincent Levy, a New York-based attorney representing the Syrian man. “Our client’s wife and child are in danger and it will take some time to get them here, so this is obviously helpful. … It’s another indication that [Trump’s] order, even as revised, exceeds the scope of authority granted to the president and that it’s unconstitutional.”
Justice Department spokespeople did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the ruling.
The court showdown in Wisconsin was just one of at least five expected to play out in the coming days as various states, organizations and individuals try to block some or all of Trump’s redrafted travel ban order from taking effect as scheduled just after midnight Wednesday night.
In Maryland, a federal judge set a hearing for Wednesday morning on a lawsuit brought by refugee aid groups.
Another hearing is set to take place in front of a federal judge in Honolulu on a travel ban lawsuit brought by the state of Hawaii.
In addition, the states of Washington and Minnesota asked Seattle-based U.S. District Court Judge James Robart to confirm that his existing injunction against key parts of Trump’s original travel ban executive order blocks similar portions of the revised directive.
However, Robart rebuffed that request Friday night, indicating that he wanted either a motion from the federal government to escape the injunction or a motion from the states to enforce it.
“The court notes that there is no pending motion concerning the foregoing issues presently before the court,” Robart wrote. “The court declines to decide any of the issues raised in the parties’ filings until such time as one of the parties files a motion that is both properly noted under the court’s Local Rules and properly briefed.”
The judge’s order also said he wants to see the states’ amend their lawsuit to address the new executive order before he makes any ruling on it.
Lawyers involved in the Maryland case—brought by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of the International Refugee Assistance Project and HIAS, a federally approved resettlement agency—say it’s possible the hearing in their case could be postponed or canceled if Seattle-based U.S. District Court Judge James Robart decides his existing injunction applies to Trump’s new order.
In the days after Trump’s Jan. 27 directive banning travel to the U.S. by citizens of seven-majority Muslim countries, about two dozen lawsuits were filed challenging its legality. At least five judges issued orders blocking parts of Trump’s original order.
Several of the states involved in those cases now appear to be lining up behind the Washington state-led suit, which obtained the most sweeping injunction against Trump’s original travel ban directive. Oregon joined that case Thursday, while New York and Massachusetts officials have indicated plans to do so soon. That process could be sped up by Robart’s order Friday night.
Lawyers representing immigrants and immigrant advocacy groups in Washington state also filed Friday afternoon for a restraining order against Trump’s revised order. That request was submitted to Robart, the same Seattle-based judge who’s handling the case involving Washington and the other state governments.
Trump has billed the travel ban orders as necessary to prevent terrorist attacks in the U.S., but critics say they’re poorly tailored to achieve that goal and will result in an anti-American backlash abroad.
The revised executive order Trump signed Monday trims Iraq off the list of affected countries and exempts existing visa-holders from the new restrictions.
Turkey’s relations with the EU are going from bad to worse, following a diplomatic tussle with the Netherlands this weekend that has led to recriminations and public protests.
Dutch authorities on Saturday barred Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from landing in Rotterdam after a political rally at which he was slated to appear was canceled.
After Saturday’s diplomatic incident Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said: “Nazism is still widespread in the West.”
Speaking at an awards ceremony in Istanbul on Sunday, Erdogan said: “I thought Nazism was dead but I was wrong … the West has shown its true face.”
Commenting on the Netherland’s decision to prohibit his foreign minister’s plane from landing the president said: “If you can sacrifice Turkish-Dutch relations for an election on Wednesday, you will pay the price.”
Austria, Germany and the Netherlands have voiced displeasure that the Turkish referendum — over constitutional amendments designed to consolidate Erdoğan’s already formidable powers — was being debated within their borders.
Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım issued a statement on Sunday that the country would “retaliate” against the Netherlands. “This situation has been protested in the strongest manner by our side, and it has been conveyed to Dutch authorities that there will be retaliation in the harshest ways … we will respond in kind to this unacceptable behaviour,” Reuters quoted him as saying.
Twelve people were arrested Sunday morning during a protest outside the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam related to the Dutch decision to keep Turkey’s ministers from campaigning in the country.
The Dutch government said Saturday it had denied entry to Çavuşoğlu over “risks to public order and security,” the AP reported. On Friday, the owner of the venue booked for the political rally had withdrawn authorization. Rotterdam Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb said in a statement he would have done the same.
The country’s Turkish population “are not your captives,” Çavuşoğlu warned the Netherlands in an interview with CNN Turk earlier on Saturday. “I sent them so they could contribute to your economy.”
Turkey, he added, would respond with economic and political sanctions if he was refused entry.
The threat made it impossible to come to a reasonable solution, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said. “This morning on TV [the Turkish minister] made clear he was threatening the Netherlands with sanctions and we can never negotiate with the Turks under such threats. So we decided … in a conference call it was better for him not to come.”
Several German municipalities canceled similar political events last week, barring Turkish officials from rallying support among the country’s Turkish population, some 1.4 million of whom are eligible to vote in the upcoming referendum. The decision drew ire from Erdoğan, who accused the country of “Nazi practices.”
German Chancellor Angela Merkel cautioned that, while the comments were “sad” and “misplaced,” Europe could not afford to alienate Turkey. “As unacceptable as some things are, it can’t be in our foreign and geopolitical interest to distance ourselves from Turkey,” Merkel told the Bundestag Friday.
German and Dutch bans on campaigns for a “yes” vote in the April referendum are a signal that Europe is “taking a side for a ‘no’ vote,” Çavuşoğlu said.
Meanwhile, Çavuşoğlu participated in a public meeting in the French city of Metz on Sunday and said the “retaliation against the Dutch would continue until they apologize.”
The public get-together was green-lighted by French authorities who said there was “no proven threat to public order” so there was no reason to prohibit the meeting, according to a  by Reuters. France also urged Turkey and a number of EU countries to “de-escalate” tensions. 
“It also calls on the Turkish authorities to avoid excesses and provocations,” the French foreign ministry said in a statement quoted by Reuters.
Rutte said he would do everything possible to “de-escalate the tensions,”  which he described as the worst in recent years. The idea of apologizing, however, was “bizarre,” he said.
This article was updated Sunday.
The suicide bombers who carried the Brussels terror attacks discussed their plans in a phone call with a point person in Syria the day before the March 2016 bombings, according to evidence uncovered by Belgian police.
In the 10-minute recording, Najim Laachraoui and Ibrahim El Bakraoui discussed the date of the attack, as well as plans to use more than 100 kilos of the explosive TATP and target the city’s airport and metro lines, Belgian media reported Saturday.
“We can’t delay anymore,” Laachraoui said, according to a transcript of the conversation. “We have to work as quickly as possible and we’ve decided to work Inchallah tomorrow Tuesday March 22.”
The arrest of Paris attacks mastermind Salah Abdeslam in Brussels a few days earlier had created a new sense of urgency, both men said in the phone call, saying they feared arrest. Laachraoui was also the subject of a manhunt for his involvement in the Paris attacks, which killed 130 people in November 2015.
“We’re working in a rush,” El Bakraoui said. “I swear brother, Allah is witness, we had lots of plans. We had lots of ideas … But we’re obligated to work now, or we’ll have to rot in a cell.”
The men planned to target American, Russian and Israeli flights at the airport. They decided against firing into the crowd because people would flee and airport security could intervene, they said.
“We’ve decided that, for a maximum number of victims, we have to infiltrate and set everything off at the same time Inchallah,” Laachraoui said.
The audio file was recovered from a laptop found in the garbage in the Brussels neighborhood of Schaerbeek that the men had used to send recorded voice messages via encrypted services to their counterparts in Syria. Investigators also found a letter addressed to the Belgian government, last saved at 10:43 p.m. the night before the attacks.
The blasts at the Brussels airport and Maalbeek metro station in the city’s European quarter left 32 people dead and injured dozens more.
What is the real story of Donald Trump and Russia? The answer is still unclear, and Democrats in Congress want to get to the bottom of it with an investigation. But there’s no doubt that a spider web of connections—some public, some private, some clear, some murky—exists between Trump, his associates and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
These charts illustrate dozens of those links, including meetings between Russian officials and members of Trump’s campaign and administration; his daughter’s ties to Putin’s friends; Trump’s 2013 visit to Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant; and his short-lived mixed martial arts venture with one of Putin’s favorite athletes. The solid lines mark established facts, while dotted ones represent speculative or unproven connections.
There’s nothing inherently damning about most of the ties illustrated below. But they do reveal the vast and mysteriously complex web behind a story that has vexed Trump’s young presidency from its start—and is certain to shake the White House for months to come.
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Michael Crowley is senior foreign affairs correspondent for POLITICO
Illustrations by Erin Aulov and Janet Michaud/POLITICO
PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Donald Trump relishes the comforts of his Mar-a-Lago estate for repeated weekends away from Washington, but former Secret Service and intelligence officials say the resort is a security nightmare vulnerable to both casual and professional spies.
While Trump’s private club in South Florida has been transformed into a fortress of armed guards, military-grade radar, bomb sniffing dogs and metal-detection checkpoints, there are still notable vulnerabilities, namely the stream of guests who can enter the property without a background check.
And security experts warn that the commander in chief’s frequent visits — four since he took office in January — afford an unprecedented opportunity for eavesdropping and building dossiers on the president’s routines and habits, as well as those of the inner circle around him. They add that with each repeat visit, the security risk escalates.
“The president is the biggest, richest intelligence target in the world, and there is almost no limit to the energy and money an adversary will spend to get at him,” said David Kris, a former Obama-era assistant attorney general for national security.
Former Secret Service agents said the setup at Mar-a-Lago and the president’s other regular clubs presents challenges that their agency wasn’t built to deal with. The Service’s main job is to protect the president from physical threats and monitoring for wiretaps and other listening devices — but not from the kinds of counterespionage challenges presented by the president’s choice to eat, sleep and work at a club accessible to anyone who can get a member to invite them in.
“Whose responsibility is it to prevent foreign intelligence? That’s a very good question that remains unanswered,” said one former Secret Service agent. “Is it the FBI? They’re not involved in protection. It’s not the CIA because they can’t spy on U.S. citizens.”
At the White House, visitors must undergo a rigorous background screening before they’re let in the door. Agents scan every visitor’s full name, birth date, Social Security number, city of residence and country of birth.
But at Mar-a-Lago, gaining entry doesn’t require that degree of disclosure. Guests entering the club go through multiple security checkpoints staffed by the Secret Service looking for weapons or other immediate threats. But there’s only one requirement to produce a photo ID, and the club itself does not ask guests to provide their names or other information when they enter through the main wrought-iron gated door.
The club also serves as a venue for ticketed public events. Hosts for the slate of political and charity dinners booked at the president’s part-time home from now to the end of the club’s season in May told POLITICO the only request for information about attendees has come from the club itself. And all they’re asked to provide is a name, not additional information that can be used for Secret Service background checks in the event the president is in residence.
“One could send a source to attend and report on atmospherics, the buzz, attendees, rumors, etc.,” Michael Hayden, the former head of the CIA and the National Security Agency, and former director of national intelligence, wrote in an email.
Spies don’t even need to physically go to Mar-a-Lago to do their work. Lists of the club’s nearly 500 exclusive dues-paying members have leaked in recent weeks to the news media, giving foreign intelligence the names of potential targets for surveillance, blackmail or bribes that can help them get closer to the president.
What’s more, a page on the Mar-a-Lago website — accessible to the public with just a little search engine sleuthing — reveals the names, work email addresses and phone numbers for more than a dozen critical club employees, including the managing director, who has special Secret Service clearance to get up close to Trump, the chief of security, the housekeeping director and the official in charge of food and beverage services. All would be obvious targets for operatives trying to get information on the president or others in his entourage.
“Hostile intelligence services would love to plant bugs in a place like this,” said John McLaughlin, a former acting CIA director.
White House spokeswoman Hope Hicks referred questions about Mar-a-Lago’s security to the Secret Service, which cited its own long-standing policy of declining comment on its operations. Mar-a-Lago officials, meantime, referred calls to the Trump Organization, which did not respond to a request for comment.
In February, the president and his staff remained on Mar-a-Lago’s dining terrace while responding to a report of a North Korean missile test. Guests tweeted out photographs of the scene as it unfolded, prompting lawmakers to complain about the apparent security breach.
Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, sent White House chief of staff Reince Priebus a letter last month asking a series of questions about the North Korea incident, as well as how guests, employees and residents at Mar-a-Lago are vetted “in order to ensure that they are not foreign agents or spies on behalf of a foreign government.”
In a one-paragraph response sent Tuesday, White House legislative affairs director Marc Short told the lawmaker that no classified information or documents were reviewed or discussed during the president’s dinner meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
“Proper security protocols are adhered to at all times at Mar-a-Lago,” Short added, while also promising to provide the lawmaker with a secure classified briefing on the topic.
The Utah Republican in an interview said the Trump administration had “satisfied our concerns,” though his spokeswoman said they are still trying to arrange the briefing. “We’ll keep an eye on it,” Chaffetz said. “I think they know that we’re keenly concerned about it and aware of it and keeping a watchful eye.”
Other presidents have had regular private vacation retreats away from the secure federal compound at Camp David, in western Maryland. The California estates owned by Presidents Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan were both referred to as the Western White House. President George H.W. Bush vacationed at Kennebunkport, Maine, and President George W. Bush traveled frequently to his ranch in Crawford, Texas.
But all of those were private homes, off-limits except to people invited by the president. The same was true of the rambling Martha’s Vineyard escape used by President Barack Obama and his family.
“No one ever ran a residence that served as a hotel,” said presidential historian Douglas Brinkley. “It’s a security nightmare by having such a turnstile of folks coming and going.”
Guests have been flocking to Mar-a-Lago since Trump’s inauguration — a boom in interest that has helped charity and political events sell out their tickets to guests hoping they might catch a glimpse of the president, or at least a chance to mingle with his aides. Michael Barnett, chairman of the Palm Beach GOP, which has sold more than 680 tickets for a March 24 Lincoln Day Dinner at Mar-a-Lago, said he hasn’t been asked to collect or provide background information on people buying tickets. “I’m sure our guests won’t have any problem giving out that information if that’s what’s required from the Secret Service,” he said.
People at the club have been able to witness the presidency up close. Trump and the Japanese prime minister stopped by a wedding at the club in February soon after their joint news conference on the North Korea situation. Last weekend, Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions were spotted by the Palm Beach Post shaking hands with club members and guests just outside a charity event. On Sunday morning, Ivanka Trump posted a picture on her Instagram account of her three young children on the club’s croquet lawn.
But meeting the president and his team isn’t even needed for spies to do their job effectively. Eavesdropping on conversations among Trump and his senior staff can certainly generate useful pieces of information, but security experts said seemingly mundane pieces of data can be just as useful: Like the routine that aides have every morning for going to the gym or eating breakfast, the names of the waiters and other club staffers whom Trump favors and the housekeepers who work on the president’s private suite and the rooms where his aides work.
“What you’re doing is you’re making it easier for foreign intelligence by telegraphing what you’re going to do every single weekend,” said the former Secret Service agent. “If I know there’s a 50-50 chance, I’m going to try to get in there.”
Kyle Cheney contributed to this report.
FILLON FAKE NEWS: French presidential hopeful François Fillon was on a roll on Sunday. He’d threatened to quit if a last-minute rally at Paris’ fancy Place du Trocadéro was a flop. Thankfully, one of his allies, conservative Senator Bruno Retailleau, told the crowd “You are 200,000!” Never mind that the square can squeeze in only about 50,000. According to police, between 30,000 and 45,000 attended the rally. Later that same day, Fillon told France 2 he was not “autistic” (which led to French NGOs and charities asking for an apology) and attacked the media for saying his wife Penelope (who received hundreds of thousands of euros in public funds while Fillon was an MP) had attempted to kill herself. French media and POLITICO have checked, and no media outlet made such a claim.
TRUMPISM AND HOW TO DEAL WITH IT: There have been numerous attempts to work out if U.S. President Donald Trump has a coherent ideology or not. The latest comes from European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s personal think tank, the European Political Strategy Centre. It says that “irrespective of their immediate anxieties, Europeans need to take a step back from the noise” — in essence, keep calm and carry on. The authors of its new report also have faith that things will turn out just fine. “The workings of the Washington bureaucracy and the influence of the more experienced members of the new U.S. administration may help to restrain the most radical and unorthodox impulses of the presidential team and mitigate attempts to upend current policy fundamentals,” they write. “Nonetheless, the EU ought to assume that President Trump will attempt to see through his revisionist campaign agenda.”
Attempts to define “Trumpism” focus on the president’s “America First” foreign policy, his “distorted view of European integration” and “strategic negligence” toward NATO. Three scenarios for the U.S. under Trump are laid out — Loud America, Walled America and, worryingly, Trouble America. “Unpredictability is likely to be the name of the game,” the think tankers write. Even so, Trump’s election could be “the opportunity that many Europeans have longed for … The EU has a chance to affirm itself on the global stage as a more autonomous political player.”
The report ends with a section entitled “Prepare for the worst but relentlessly pursue a positive agenda.”
WHOSE NUTELLA IS BEST?: EU leaders will this week discuss sausages and Nutella. There’s been uproar in Central and Eastern Europe over revelations that companies selling branded products change the ingredients depending on which country they’re selling in. Nutella sold in Hungary, it has been discovered, is less smooth than that sold across the border in Austria, while up to half of products surveyed in Slovakia, including things like sausages, “contained differences that significantly impact their quality,” said the country’s Agriculture Minister Gabriela Matečná. Only Milka chocolate has been shown to have the same quality across the EU.
A WOMAN’S TOUCH: Věra Jourová, European commissioner for justice, consumers and gender equality, told Playbook a few days before International Women’s Day how important it is that there are women in the College of European Commissioners. “We are talented for different things,” she said. “Often when my male colleagues want maybe quicker and more sharp solutions, we women say ‘wait a minute, let’s keep negotiating.’” She pointed to the fact that in Hungary and Greece there are no female cabinet ministers, which could explain the tenor of political debate in those countries.
STOP PAYING ASSISTANTS SO MUCH: Discussions about the European Parliament’s €2 billion budget for 2018 began this week, with a series of cost-cutting measures outlined by Richard Ashworth, a British MEP on the Budgets Committee. He suggested a proposed hike in the amount of money each MEP has to spend on parliamentary assistants by around €1,500 a month was too steep. The current figure of €24,164 is “more than adequate,” his report said. He also took aim at European political foundations, many of which have been embroiled in scandals in which EU funds have been “misspent.” His proposal? Make them pay more of their own costs.
FEUD OF THE WEEK:
FAR-RIGHT MEP VERSUS ALL WOMEN: Last week, MEP Janusz Korwin-Mikke caused uproar after saying in a debate about the gender pay gap: “Of course women must earn less than men because they are weaker, they are smaller, they are less intelligent and they must earn less.” On Tuesday he was unlucky enough to find himself in a taxi from Brussels airport to the Parliament with three Finnish MEPs — Henna Virkkunen, Miapetra Kumpula-Natri and Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner. “I gave him feedback on his statement from last week, after which he took his bag and jumped off the van,” said Virkkunen in a Facebook post. “He said he preferred to take the train instead.”

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:
“I regard [Jeremy] Corbyn as a disaster. His heart is in the right place and many of his policies are sound, but he has allowed himself to be portrayed as a left-wing extremist,” renowned physicist Stephen Hawking told the Times.
GAFFES AND LAUGHS:
RABBIT RIGHTS: “Over 2,500 emails on rights for rabbits in past 24 hours…” Vicky Ford, chairwoman of the Parliament’s Internal Market Committee, tweeted Tuesday. Her concerned constituents are demanding she and other MEPs vote next week for a proposal put forward by left-wing MEP Stefan Eck, to introduce legislation to protect farmed rabbits. “I like bunnies but there are other issues too,” noted Ford.

BY THE NUMBERS: INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY EDITION
170: Number of years to close the pay gap between men and women at current rates.
0: Number of female ministers in Hungary and Greece.
38%: Gap in pensions between men and women across Europe.
4: Number of EU countries that have at least 30 percent of women on the boards of large companies.
WHO’S UP
Jesse Klaver: The head of the Dutch Green Left party looks set to lead his party to many more seats in next week’s elections.
Jean-Claude Juncker: Thanks to his white paper and trying to force EU countries to stop their Berlaymont bashing, the Commission may have found a stronger narrative.
WHO’S DOWN
Matteo Renzi: A corruption investigation involving Renzi’s father threatens to tarnish the former prime minister’s reputation.
French center right: A week of drama over whether to back François Fillon has done nothing to stop his poll numbers falling.
LONDON — Under-fire U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond has asked Boris Johnson to lead next week’s parliamentary debate on the budget, senior government sources revealed.
In an unusual move that is likely to raise eyebrows in Westminster, the foreign secretary, whose brief has little to do with fiscal policy, will lead for the government when MPs are given another chance to grill the government on Monday afternoon.
It comes after days of controversy over the chancellor’s proposed tax rise on the self-employed in the budget statement on Wednesday.
While it is common for government ministers other than the chancellor to take the lead in the days following the formal budget statement to MPs, it is rare for a foreign secretary to be asked to take on the role because of the position’s limited relevance to domestic economic affairs.
Monday’s debate is likely to be dominated by technical questions about the impact of raising national insurance contributions on the self-employed and whether the proposal breaks the government’s 2015 manifesto commitment not to increase taxes.
Hammond provisionally asked Johnson to lead the debate last week — before the budget and the subsequent furore. However, despite the fact that he is likely to face accusations of avoiding scrutiny, Hammond’s aides confirmed the arrangement with the Foreign Office on Friday afternoon.
A senior government official said Johnson has been asked to lead the debate because the government wants a big focus on “global Britain” – Theresa May’s long-term view of how to make Brexit work. Allies of Johnson said it was a “big show of confidence in the foreign secretary and his abilities in the House.”
Allies of the chancellor, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was “completely false” to suggest he was ducking a confrontation with MPs, insisting everything had been agreed weeks ago.
No matter how hard Europe’s leaders look to the future, they can’t seem to shake off fights of the past.
EU leaders Friday dove into a debate over the bloc’s future, aiming to use a celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome later this month as the pivot to a more dynamic, multispeed alliance.
But leaders were also on a collision course over two age-old policy fights that must be resolved before the festivities in Rome: the timeless quarrel between right and left over social policy, and a classic dispute over how to calibrate the EU’s current position on new members.
Statements about the EU’s so-called social pillar and about enlargement of the bloc are to be included in the formal declaration commemorating the Treaty of Rome and charting the course ahead, but at the moment there is still no consensus on those points.
Italy, the host of the Rome celebration, and other countries with deep socialist political traditions are pushing for a more robust statement on the EU’s traditional and future role in social welfare policy, while conservative-leaning countries are more reticent. And Croatia, in particular, would like a restatement of the EU’s plan to welcome new members — an issue of great importance to its Western Balkan neighbors — while Western European countries see a risk of giving new ammunition to populists.
“The real threat for consensus when it comes to the Rome declaration is not the multispeed issue,” said a senior EU official. “I am relatively sure we will manage this problem.”
“The real problem is the social Europe because here the division is clear, very traditional and a little bit ideological,” the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “This will be for me the real challenge to find the common language on the social dimension. And on enlargement: As you know some countries want to at least to mention that Europe is still interested in enlargement and some of them are very, very skeptical to this idea.”
Wrangling over the language in the Rome declaration underscores the extent to which leaders have plunged headlong into a discussion about the how members of the bloc will work with each other going forward, but have yet to forge agreement on an overall policy vision for the EU in the 21st Century.
“This is about delivering more effectively,” another senior EU official said, noting that average citizens are not interested in wonkish policy debates. But delivering what? That question has yet to be answered.
It was clear on Friday that Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and his senior aides had succeeded in having an impact on the discussion among EU leaders by pushing out a white paper outlining five scenarios for the bloc’s future several weeks ahead of schedule.
In a moment of feigned modesty, Juncker, at a news conference Friday, said he had not expected the white paper to be a part of the leaders’ conversation but since it had come up it was important to note that neither he nor the Commission had endorsed any particular path forward.
“I didn’t expect us to discuss the white paper, nevertheless some of our colleagues made a reference,” he said. “The five scenarios the Commission has proposed in its white paper are not the preferred scenarios by the Commission but are the ideas which are floating around and which are debated and discussed in all our member states, in our civil society, in the press rooms.”
Some officials said that the discussion the leaders had now undertaken in earnest would ultimately serve as the framework for EU elections in 2019, including the contest to replace Juncker, who has said he will step down then, at the end of his first five-year term. By this thinking, candidates to lead the EU’s executive body going forward would be compelled to stake out a preferred scenario or combination of paths.
At the same time, the accelerating discussion about a multispeed EU has already shifted the strategic thinking of some leaders.
Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, which together form a sort of middle-weight clique called the Benelux countries, said Friday they would join forces with the Visegrád Group — Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic — and the tiny Baltics — Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — in an effort to counterbalance the influence of larger powers, such as the “Formidable 4” of Germany, France, Italy and Spain whose leaders gathered last week in Versailles to endorse the multispeed concept.
To highlight their solidarity, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel and Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel arrived together at the meeting Friday.
At a briefing later, Michel said that leaders should strive to issue a declaration in Rome in plain language, without any footnotes or EU jargon, that presents a clear message to the citizens they serve.
“This message should be lucid and positive about the future,” Michel said.
The task of drafting the Rome declaration ultimately falls to Juncker, European Council President Donald Tusk, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, as the host, and Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, who currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union.
Officials said that leaders, including Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło had expressed a desire for leaders to jointly sign the Rome declaration — though some might wonder if Szydło was preparing an ambush given her refusal to support the joint conclusions of the European Council summit meeting on Thursday.
At his news conference with Juncker Friday, Tusk said that his goal was to stress unity over the variable speed model, particularly with formal Brexit negotiations expected to begin within a few weeks.
“Our last meeting in Malta, subsequent opinions voiced by some member states as well as the European Commission’s White Paper leave us in no doubt that the idea of a multispeed Europe will be one of the discussions ahead of the Rome anniversary,” Tusk said.
But, with regard to Brexit, he said: “It is clear from the debate that the unity of the 27 will be our most precious asset.”
Colleagues described Tusk as exhausted by the run-up to the formal triggering of Article 50 by the U.K. Still, Tusk said he remains upbeat. “After today’s debate, I can openly say that all 27 leaders agree with this objective,” he said. “This was an optimistic conversation about our common future.”
Jacopo Barigazzi and Quentin Ariès contributed reporting. 
Just about every leader in the EU seems to have a different name for it. But it’s the talk of Brussels once again.
French President François Hollande calls it “differentiated cooperation,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel has talked about “a Europe of different speeds,” while Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni speaks of “different levels of integration.” But the decades-old idea most often rendered in English as “multispeed Europe” recently got a new spin from Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, as one of five scenarios for the EU ‘s future with the title: “Those who want to do more.”
When EU leaders — minus the soon-to-depart Theresa May — met in Brussels on Friday to map out how the bloc should develop ahead of a grand 60th anniversary summit in Rome later this month, the concept was on everybody’s lips once more.
As Juncker’s handy slogan suggests, the general idea is simple: Individual members of the EU can group together for specific projects, even if others do not want to join in. But pinning down how that should work in practise is much trickier. For many, “multispeed Europe” is one of these ubiquitous catchall terms with blurry contours.
A senior European diplomat compared the idea to the Loch Ness monster: “It appears every once in a while but we have never seen it.”
Some see it as a useless lifebuoy grabbed by a drowning Europe, others see it as a recycled concept originally invented to please Euroskeptics, while others say it has never existed concretely.
In reality, the EU has already set up multiple ways, both within its defining treaties and outside them, to encourage the emergence of a multispeed Europe. The eurozone, which uses the single currency, and the passport-free Schengen area, are two prominent examples.
The concept of “enhanced cooperation” features in key EU documents, including the Treaty of Amsterdam, signed in 1997, and the Treaty of Nice, signed in 2001. Under current treaty rules, if at least nine member countries wish to establish enhanced cooperation in an area covered by the treaties “they shall notify the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission accordingly.” The Council adopts a decision to allow enhanced cooperation “as a last resort … when it has established that the objectives of such cooperation cannot be attained within a reasonable period by the Union as a whole, and provided that at least nine Member States participate in it.”
The most recent example of “enhanced cooperation” came on Thursday evening when 19 leaders agreed to establish a European Public Prosecutor after almost four years of difficult negotiations, and despite a lack of support from countries including Sweden, Poland, Hungary, Malta and the Netherlands.
“This is a good evolution for member states who want to go further,” Hollande declared.
The prosecutor would have powers to investigate and prosecute corruption and tax fraud, which costs EU governments at least €50 billion a year.
The decision on the prosecutor was at least the third time EU countries have used the procedure. In 2010, 14 member countries pushed forward with rules allowing international couples to select which country’s law would apply to their divorce. In 2011, all EU states participated in the creation of a unified patent regime that would apply in every member country apart from Spain and Italy. In 2013, the European Council adopted a decision authorizing 11 member countries to proceed with the introduction of a financial transaction tax (FTT) through “enhanced cooperation.”
But the idea of a multispeed Europe becoming central to the EU’s identity brought a multi-faceted response from national leaders on Friday.
Juncker acknowledged the notion had sparked fears among some leaders that it could lead to “a new kind of Iron Curtain between East and West” — with two classes of membership, one for rich Western EU members and another for poorer eastern members.
“That’s not the intention of this,” he said. “We are not trying to change the treaties.”
Speaking to reporters on Friday, Hollande urged the EU to “move faster and stronger with only several countries, without losing overall solidarity and cohesion among the 27 countries.” He said such a model had worked well on defense, the eurozone and the transaction tax.
He added : “It’s not about having several speeds, it’s not about excluding anyone … But we can’t allow one country, whoever it may be, to prevent others from moving faster.”
The previous day, he suggested enhanced cooperation to harmonize fiscal and social policies and also to transition to low-carbon energy, where he said “we know that some countries don’t want to go much further” and suggested Poland was in this category.
“What is essential is for Europe to move on,” Hollande said.
Germany’s Merkel acknowledged that some countries feared a “multispeed Europe” meant there would be different classes of EU membership. She sought to ease these fears by comparing the EU to a family, in which all members were free to join any of the family’s projects but some might choose not to do so.
Romanian President Klaus Iohannis told reporters a multispeed Europe was already a reality, “but we should not make it an objective.”
Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło said bluntly that her country didn’t want a multispeed Europe. “The only future for it [the EU] is to be a singular organization, one organization that will respect its members, paying attention to fundamental questions,” she said.
One European diplomat said much depended on how the idea was applied.
“It works if it’s Option B, like now, when there’s no consensus among member states then there’s the chance of enhanced cooperation,” the diplomat said. “If it becomes option A — a group starts with enhanced cooperation and then checks if the others want to join — then it can become the disintegration of the EU.”
Jacopo Barigazzi and David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on Friday said he hopes Britain will one day rejoin the European Union.
“I don’t like Brexit,” Juncker said at a press conference after the European Council in Brussels.
“I would like to be in the same boat as the British. The day will come when the British re-enter the boat. I hope,” he added.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has said she will trigger Article 50, the formal notification of leaving the Union, by the end of March.
But Juncker said Brexit doesn’t mean “the end of our continental ambitions.”
“I had the impression from colleagues I talked to in the room that … the Brexit issue is encouraging the others to continue. Unfortunately, not the British,” he said.
LONDON – Jeremy Corbyn’s head of economic policy quit to take a “middle ranking” job in David Davis’ Department for Exiting the European Union, senior Whitehall and Labour Party sources confirmed Friday.
Mike Hatchett, a former Treasury civil servant, joined Corbyn’s team barely a year ago and was highly regarded by Labour MPs and staff. One senior Labour official said he was “one of the grown ups” and his departure was a big blow to Corbyn.
Hatchett’s decision to “defect” back to government is likely to feed accusations that Corbyn is losing the support of all but his most loyal supporters. On Wednesday, Corbyn was one of the guests at the leaving party of his former campaign director Simon Fletcher, who quit last month after reportedly becoming disillusioned with the direction of the party.
Asked about Hatchett’s departure, a spokesman for the Labour leader declined to comment. However Corbyn’s allies, speaking on condition of anonymity, rejected the accusation that Hatchett had become disillusioned.
Hatchett, a specialist in financial services regulation and the European Union, had applied for a number of positions in government before being offered the position in the Brexit department, a senior Whitehall source said.
His experience in government, having served in the Treasury and the U.K.’s representation to the EU in Brussels, is seen as a perfect fit for the Brexit department, which has rapidly expanded since being created by Theresa May last year. Hatchett’s appointment went through normal civil service channels and was not at a level that needed to be signed off by the Secretary of State.
A spokesman for the Brexit department said: “The department ensures all prospective staff fully understand the requirement to operate objectively and impartially under the Civil Service code.
“In addition to standard pre-employment checks, there are clear rules that individuals from a political background are subject to further checks on propriety and conflicts of interest.
“We are equipping the department with staff who have the right expertise to get the very best deal for the U.K.”
Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło deflected on Friday an apparent threat from French President François Hollande to curtail EU funds after Warsaw’s attempt to block Donald Tusk’s reelection as president of the European Council.
“If I was supposed to seriously take the threats of a president who only has 4 percent support and soon won’t be president … if in the politics of the EU they think they can threaten a country, arguing they won’t get some money, their perspective is doomed,” Szydło said at the EU summit in Brussels. “It’s time for some politicians to understand this.”
Poland ruffled feathers by being the only country to oppose the reelection of Tusk, a bitter domestic political rival to the ruling Law and Justice Party. When Tusk secured the support of all EU member countries except Poland, Szydło vetoed the summit’s conclusions, which had to be issued instead as conclusions “by the president of the European Council.“
Szydło argued that those conclusions were therefore not valid. “In the treaty it says the conclusions can only be accepted consensually by the Council. They weren’t accepted because one country, meaning Poland, didn’t accept it,” she told reporters.
She showed no remorse for Poland’s stance at the summit, saying her country had the right to take a stand. “It can’t be that central and eastern European countries have to show gratitude for being a member of the EU,” he said.
The signal from Brussels to the Western Balkans was clear: You still have a future in the EU. But the message coming in the other direction is increasingly blunt: We’re not listening any more.
Alarmed by rising political tensions and Russia’s growing role, EU leaders put the region on the agenda of a summit dinner on Thursday night. Beforehand, one leader after another voiced concern and declared the EU would redouble its efforts to stabilize a volatile corner of the Continent torn apart by war in the 1990s.
“Tensions and divisions have got out of hand, partly because of unhealthy external influences, which have been destabilizing several countries for some time,” said European Council President Donald Tusk, in a barely coded reference to Moscow, which is accused of playing a role in an attempted coup in Montenegro and of stirring up political and ethnic tension in Bosnia, Serbia, Kosovo and Macedonia.
“The European Union remains … fully committed to the stability and prosperity of the region. I want leaders to reconfirm the European perspective of the Western Balkans,” Tusk said.
Even Prime Minister Theresa May, who is about to lead Britain out of the EU, announced the U.K. would host a Western Balkans summit next year. “In light of the alleged Montenegro coup plot,” she said, “I will call for us to do more to counter destabilizing Russian disinformation campaigns and raise the visibility of the Western commitment to this region.”
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said after the dinner that leaders had agreed to “strengthen the European perspective of these countries” — in other words, help Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia to become EU members one day.
But when the leaders’ official statement arrived after midnight, just one of its 17 paragraphs was devoted to the Western Balkans. Its 94 words contained nothing but bromides such as “the importance of continuing on the reform path, good neighbourly relations and inclusive regional cooperation initiatives.”
Such words alone will have little impact. The EU lost leverage over the region when European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker declared in 2014 there would be no new members during his term, which runs until 2019.
The past couple of weeks have hammered home the declining clout of the West, which, in the years after the wars that broke up Yugoslavia, held great sway with any regional government aspiring to join the European mainstream.
The president of Macedonia has rejected calls from the EU, NATO and the U.S. to appoint a would-be prime minister who has formed a majority with ethnic Albanian parties. Even a visit by EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini to ram home the message made no difference.
Mogherini was subjected to boos and chants of “Serbia, Russia, we don’t need the EU!” by ultra-nationalist MPs when she addressed the Serbian parliament last week.
While that episode was a striking breakdown of decorum, it was instigated by politicians who have long been deeply hostile to the West. More surprising is a recent move by ethnic Albanian leaders in Kosovo, a state which owes its very existence to Western military and diplomatic power, to defy NATO and the EU and press ahead with plans to establish an army despite opposition from the Serb minority.
Even after NATO issued a forceful statement telling Kosovo’s leaders to drop the plan, President Hashim Thaçi published an opinion piece defending it. Domestic critics have accused Thaçi of using the plan to try to rally support for his political party.
Kosovo’s parliament this week also urged the government to suspend an EU-backed dialogue with Serbia, its wartime enemy. When Mogherini’s spokeswoman issued a statement criticizing the vote, a politician close to Thaçi was first on Twitter to respond with an objection.
Despite such open disregard for the EU’s views, Juncker defended his decision to rule out enlargement during his term.
“I don’t think that this was a mistake … because as a matter of fact no candidate country is ready to join,” he told reporters at the summit. Juncker said the EU remained open to enlargement when a candidate country fulfilled the criteria for membership.
But none of the Western Balkan countries will be ready to join the EU for years to come. And although the EU is the region’s largest trading partner, Western Balkan governments have found other sponsors, such as China and Turkey and the Gulf states, willing to invest large amounts of money without raising concerns about their patchy record on political reforms or media freedom.
WARSAW — Poland’s failed attempt to block a second term for European Council President Donald Tusk has sent the country’s right-wing government in a sharply Euroskeptic direction.
In an unprecedented statement for a senior Polish official, Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski, in an interview with the Super Express tabloid published Saturday, called for “drastically lowering the level of trust toward the EU” by blocking EU initiatives in an effort to change Polish public opinion about the Union.
Until now, the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party has been careful to argue that it is simply fighting for Polish interests in Brussels, while steering clear of the anti-EU rhetoric favored by populists like France’s Marine Le Pen and the U.K.’s Brexiteers.
The reason is that Poles have consistently been one of the most pro-EU countries — the most recent survey by Eurobarometer put Poland behind only Ireland in its positive assessment of the EU.
Waszczykowski made clear the government wants to change that. “For years Polish public opinion has had a naive belief that the European Union is a club of altruists in which there is an effort to come to common conclusions. [The Tusk vote] showed us clearly that it’s different, that you have to have sharp teeth.”
The foreign minister’s comments are part of a broader shift in government rhetoric in the wake of the fight over Tusk, where Poland was the only member to oppose another two-and-a-half year term for the former prime minister.
The reaction by the government and its backers was furious, and they painted the EU as an alien entity hostile to Polish interests.
“We, the heads of government, should be looking after the interests of our citizens,” Beata Szydło, the Polish prime minister, said in Brussels after Tusk‘s reelection. “Meanwhile, the European Council most often looks after the particular interests of certain groups.”
The language in Warsaw was even clearer.
The EU “is dominated by one country,” Jarosław Kaczyński, the leader of PiS and Poland’s de facto ruler, said at a news conference. “There is no point in concealing that the country is Germany.”
He added a warning that if the EU “doesn’t turn from the path down which it is marching it will lead to a situation in which it will become a part of history.”
Polish state television, which hews to a pro-government line, announced Tusk’s victory with a caption reading, “The election of Donald Tusk is Germany’s success.”
Beata Mazurek, a PiS spokeswoman, took a page out of the Euroskeptic British press’ playbook, poking fun at EU directives that supposedly “treat a carrot like a fruit or a snail like a fish.”
Many conservative Poles have long been torn over the EU. They appreciate the political security and economic prosperity that flows from membership, but bridle at social changes such as tolerance of homosexuality and abortion that also come from European integration, worrying they will undermine Poland’s Catholic and nationalist traditions.
There is also disquiet at handing sovereignty over to Brussels. Kaczyński has been trying without success to persuade EU leaders to renegotiate the EU treaties to create a looser Union that will be more of a free-trade zone and less of a nascent federation.
Tusk’s election over howls of protest from Warsaw strengthens those fears.
Waszczykowski warned in an interview with the Onet news portal that the vote on Tusk means the “Union is becoming an organization in which the pressure of large countries decides.”
He added that the EU “takes similar decisions based on dictates in other areas — energy or climate.”
Warsaw has had increasing difficulty pushing its priorities though Brussels, souring the government on the EU.
Poland was upset that its views weren’t reflected in the recent approach to reforming the EU’s Emissions Trading System — Warsaw is worried that increasing the cost of carbon permits will cripple its heavy industry and its coal-reliant power sector.
The government has also refused to take any asylum seekers from the pool of refugees being resettled across the EU and it is embroiled in a fight with the EU over charges that the government is violating the bloc’s democratic principles by making changes to Poland’s top constitutional court.
On issue after issue, the distance between Warsaw and the rest of the EU is growing. Poland wasn’t invited to a summit of the EU’s biggest four countries — Germany, France, Italy and Spain — earlier this week.
“It’s not that we’re alienating ourselves from the Union. It’s that some countries want to run forward, cutting themselves off from countries of our region,” said Waszczykowski.
The closest tie now binding Poland to the remaining 27 members is cash. Warsaw expects to collect about €106 billion over the course of the 2014-2020 budget cycle.
When asked by a reporter if Poland planned to use the same blocking maneuver on the budget that it tried over Tusk, Szydło replied that it’s best “not to tie issues related to finances and the budget with other questions.”
But those links are being made. François Hollande, the French president, remarked to Szydło during the summit that France paid for the structural funds going to Poland.
Italy and Austria grumble that countries like Poland which are not pulling their weight over asylum seekers should pay a financial price.
In an interview with Spiegel, Justice Commissioner Vera Jourová noted that during the post-2020 budget negotiations, “any further massive funding” is going to have to be tied to a recipient country’s values as well as its economic needs.
That’s unlikely to make the Polish government and the one-third of the electorate that forms its core backing any happier about the EU.
This article has been updated.
Behind the scenes in the Bundestag, one conservative politician is pulling strings to make sure the interests of German lawmakers are heard once the time comes to discuss Britain’s future relationship with the EU.
Germany’s former Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich, a 59-year-old Bavarian, leads a new Brexit working group of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) and their Bavarian sister party, his Christian Social Union (CSU). The conservative bloc of CDU and CSU is by far the largest group in the German parliament, holding almost half of all seats.
Under German law the national parliament will have to ratify any deal covering Britain’s relationship with the rest of the EU once it has left the bloc.
The working group’s guest list reads like a who’s who of Brexit negotiation VIPs. At their first closed-door meeting in February, Uwe Corsepius, Merkel’s chief adviser on European affairs, and Christian Calliess, legal adviser to the European Commission, came in. On Wednesday, Elmar Brok, former chair of the European Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee, and British Ambassador Sebastian Wood showed up for their second meeting. The plan for the next session in early April is to bring in a high-ranking member of the Commission’s Brexit task force.
The goal of these early discussions is to speak with one voice as a conservative group, Friedrich said, though such sessions have the added benefit of signaling that the lawmakers are not willing to hand over the most important parts of the Brexit negotiations to unelected sherpas in the chancellory in Berlin and the Commission in Brussels.
“We certainly don’t want to imply that the German government and its civil servants have no idea about the needs of people,” Friedrich stressed, “but as parliamentarians, we were elected to clearly formulate those interests, and not leave anything to chance.”
It’s an open secret in Berlin that the U.K. hopes to find allies among Merkel’s conservatives, who traditionally have close ties with the car industry — one of Germany’s biggest exporters to the U.K. — and particularly in Bavaria, where trade relations with the U.K. are especially close.
“Of course, Bavaria has a great interest in reaching an amicable settlement,” Friedrich admitted on Thursday, “But it’s not just Bavaria, it’s all of Germany, and essentially all of Europe, who has this interest. We need the Brits, for example, when it comes to security or making sure that the flow of goods and trade runs smoothly between the U.K. and the EU.”
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Dutch Foreign Minister Bert Koenders on Friday said he has told Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu that he is not allowed to campaign in the Netherlands this Saturday ahead of a constitutional referendum in April.
Koenders added that the Turkish attitude was “unacceptable.”
Although he cannot stop the minister from making his speech, Koenders said the Dutch government will not facilitate Çavuşoğlu’s visit, nor does he want to meet him.
Koenders said the Netherlands is the first country to take such a position, but several EU governments have spoken out against Turkish election campaign events in Europe.
“People are allowed to organize meetings, but a Turkish minister campaigning in our country about a Turkish referendum and speaking about his citizens is undesirable,” Koenders said.
Turkish ministers have struggled to find venues for their campaign appearances, with owners withdrawing authorization because of the controversial nature of the events. A planned visit by Çavuşoğlu to Rotterdam earlier this week was canceled.
The website of UKIP leader Paul Nuttall is back online after “scheduled maintenance” and with several small but important changes, Buzzfeed reported Friday.
Deleted from the updated site are claims that he was a university lecturer and a member of the board of the North West Training Council.
Several references to his footballing past have also been amended. A reference to Nuttall being “a former professional footballer with Tranmere Rovers” has been changed to “a former footballer with Tranmere Rovers youth team” while further references to being “a former footballer” were changed to “a former youth footballer.”
Nuttall has come under fire in the past for making inaccurate claims on his website. During his recent, unsuccessful, bid to become the member of parliament for Stoke Central, he was taken to task over claims made on the site about having lost “close, personal friends” in the 1989 Hillsborough football disaster.
Speaking to a Liverpool radio station, Nuttall was confronted with an entry on his website from 2011 that discussed attempts to block the publication of files about the disaster, in which 96 Liverpool fans lost their lives at the Hillsborough stadium in Yorkshire.
It read: “Without them being made public we will never get to the bottom of that appalling tragedy when 96 Liverpool fans including close personal friends of mine lost their lives.”
Nuttall at first denied having made the claim, but when presented with a copy of the web entry, he said, “I haven’t lost a close personal friend. I’ve lost someone who I know.”
Nuttall said he hadn’t written the piece in question: “I’m sorry about that, but that is something… I haven’t put that out. That is wrong.”
The American economy added 235,000 jobs in February, the Labor Department reported Friday, down slightly from January’s 238,000.
The employment survey is the first to measure job creation under President Donald Trump, who has promised to add 25 million new jobs to the economy over the next decade.
Unemployment was 4.7 percent, down slightly from January’s 4.8 percent. Average private sector earnings were up 6 cents over January , when they rose 5 cents. Wages were up 2.8 percentover February 2016.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted the creation about 200,000 jobs, an unemployment rate of 4.7 percent, and an increase in hourly earnings of 0.3 percent. The payroll company ADP estimated Wednesday based on its own records that February job growth in the private sector was 298,000. According to BLS, the private sector added 227,000 jobs in February, up from 221,000 the previous month.
Trump questioned the legitimacy of Labor Department data last year on the campaign trail, but he now appears to embrace economic numbers. After ADP’s report, Trump tweeted: “Great news. We are only just beginning. Together, we are going to #MAGA!” Trump also tweeted Wednesday about a LinkedIn report that found “January and February were the strongest consecutive months for hiring since August and September 2015.”
Taking credit for the economy could prove a risky move for Trump. Friday’s jobs report all but guarantees the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates by one-quarter point next week. The Federal Reserve is expected to hike interest rates multiple times this year, which will likely slow economic growth.
Trump came under fire in February for the chaotic rollout of his travel ban and for his team’s shadowy dealings with Russia. But Friday’s jobs report and other surveys suggest employers are looking past the mayhem. The National Federation of Independent Business’ President and CEO Juanita Duggan said prior to Friday’s report that “the post-election optimism we’ve seen among small businesses has led to more job openings.” The optimism stems from the expectation that a Republican president and Congress will deliver regulatory relief and tax cuts.
We know that Donald Trump had the largest ever inauguration crowd (because he told us so), but could it be topped by the next president of the European Commission?
Well, no. But the European Parliament’s top staffer on Monday gained approval for a “formal inauguration” that’s as close as possible to the U.S. presidential model, as part of his plans to boost awareness of the 2019 European elections — think of an open-air spectacular in front of the largest possible crowd.
Klaus Welle, the Parliament’s secretary-general, tried to get support for the idea at a meeting of leading MEPs in Strasbourg on Monday — and he got it, according to two people present in the closed-door meeting.
The Parliament’s bureau — President Antonio Tajani and the 14 vice presidents — took a decision on the Parliament’s 2018 budget Monday evening, the sources said.
The section of the agenda on the budgetary implications of the European elections in 2019 foresee a total expenditure of €33 million in 2018 and 2019, the bulk of it for “publication, information and participation in public events” ahead of the campaign. It is not clear how much a public inauguration would cost, if it went ahead.
There are only a few solid plans on what the campaign itself should look like. It will be based, according to Welle’s report, “on the key element of the 2014 campaign: the lead candidates, an irreversible process.”
That process, pushed by Welle, Jean-Claude Juncker and Martin Schulz, saw the leader of the largest political group in the election become president of the Commission — the so-called Spitzenkandidaten process that handed Juncker the top job after his center-right European People’s Party won the most seats in the parliamentary election.
But not everybody bought into the idea of a public swearing-in of Juncker’s successor.
Juncker didn’t want to comment on the plans but people familiar with his thinking say that he is happy with the way Commission presidents (and commissioners) currently get sworn in: before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg during a decades-old, decidedly un-fancy ceremony.
Welle wants to make changes to it. “The secretary-general has a huge interest in American democracy,” said Sylvie Guillaume, a French vice president of the assembly. Since he took office in 2009, Welle’s ambition for the Parliament has been to model it on the U.S. Congress, including an in-house think tank similar to the U.S. Congressional Research Service.
The idea of a public swearing-in isn’t new. The idea was “scrubbed” a few years ago, Guillaume said. According to people involved in the talks, former Parliament President Schulz was furious when he learned about the potential implications of a “formal inauguration” of the Commission chief.
Now that Schulz has left for Berlin to try his hand in domestic politics, Welle is trying again, Guillaume said.
Welle told POLITICO that a decision was a long way off. “The conception for the 2019 election is being designed by the working group on communication of the newly elected bureau and then being put in front of the bureau for a decision, presumably in the fall,” he said in an email.
Guillaume isn’t convinced, saying, “I have the feeling that everything is already written” in stone.
The French government warned a construction company of the dangers of offering to help Donald Trump build his wall along the southern border of the United States.
Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said French-Swiss construction giant LafargeHolcim “should reflect upon what its interests are. There are other clients who will be stunned by this,” according to local media.
“Companies also have social and environmental responsibilities,” he added.
LafargeHolcim’s chief executive Eric Olsen has said he is prepared to supply the materials for the controversial wall along the border with Mexico, the building of which was one of Trump’s main campaign pledges. “We are the number one cement group in the United States. We are here to support the construction and development of the country. We are not a political organization,” Olsen said.
Earlier this week, it emerged that Trump’s wall could cost as much as $21.6 billion, and take more than three years to construct.
Czech President Miloš Zeman will run for another term in national elections slated for January 2018, Czech media reported Friday.
Zeman, the country’s first freely-elected president, told supporters he would seek reelection during an event celebrating the fourth anniversary of his inauguration at Prague Castle Thursday, ahead of a formal announcement expected Friday.
The 72-year-old social democratic politician was one of few European leaders to openly back Donald Trump’s presidential campaign last year, and is known for his pro-Russian and anti-immigrant positions.
Four years into his term, Zeman’s controversial beliefs have alienated voters in the Czech Republic’s urban areas, but he remains popular among the country’s rural voters, according to Deutsche Welle.
Businessman and writer Michal Horáček has also announced his candidacy ahead of next year’s elections, campaigning under the slogan “We can do better.”
Current freedoms available to Brits as members of the European Union should be extended to those who want to maintain their “individual relationship” with Europe, the European Parliament’s chief Brexit negotiator Guy Verhofstadt said Friday.
Brexit is a political and strategic “tragedy, catastrophe — you name it” for both sides, but it is also an “emotional” blow for British citizens who voted to remain in the bloc, the former Belgian prime minister told BBC’s Radio 4 program.
“They are lost, they are losing a part of that identity,” Verhofstadt said, adding that he was urging negotiators to “take this on board” and allow British citizens to keep hold of their current rights — such as freedom of travel and the right to vote in European elections — if they request it on an individual basis.
The thorny issue of British and EU citizens’ rights post-Brexit should be discussed “before we talk about anything else,” Verhofstadt said, but added that talks on the issue could not begin before U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May triggers Article 50 by the end of this month.
The British government has so far been silent about the status of the estimated 3.3 million EU citizens currently in the U.K. because it says a unilateral move may leave British citizens in the EU in a vulnerable position. Unhappy with the government’s position, the House of Lords added an amendment to the government’s Brexit bill demanding the rights of EU citizens currently living in the U.K. to be ensured.
Verhofstadt also poured cold water on the idea that Britain could make a clean break from the bloc within two years. “Let’s not be naive, it will take two years plus the whole period of this transition to sort out this new relationship between U.K. and EU,” he said.
Asked what Brussels would do if the U.K. refuses to pay its €60 billion exit bill, Verhofstadt cautioned that there is “always an enormous gap at the beginning of negotiations” and that he expected both sides to come to a compromise.
Parliament would not be afraid to use its power to veto any deal it doesn’t agree with, Verhofstadt added, saying it was not a given that MEPs will “automatically vote yes” on a deal.
The German parliament voted Friday to loosen Germany’s data protection laws, amid heightened concern over public safety, Deutsche Welle reported.
The bill was introduced in December last year, in the wake of a terrorist attack on a Berlin Christmas market that left 12 dead and reignited a national debate over security and surveillance.
The new security resolution will make it easier for private firms to install video cameras in car parks, football stadiums and shopping centers, according to Deutsche Welle. It is also expected to significantly hamper privacy advocates’ ability to block any future surveillance measures, thanks to an emphasis on “the protection of life, health and freedom” over privacy rights.
The Bundestag on Friday also green-lighted the introduction of body cameras among police officers, which proponents say will help protect them.
Critics fear the changes curtail fundamental freedoms without any guaranteed security gains. Surveillance remains a sensitive issue in Germany due to its history of secret police tracking.
For every member of POLITICO’s list of the 40 MEPs who matter in 2017, 19 parliamentarians didn’t make the cut.
The excluded include leaders of two parties and 17 policy committees, 14 entire national delegations and every British MEP except Syed Kamall.
Our reporting team’s picks were bound to provoke debate. #EP40 was a trending topic on social media in Belgium throughout Thursday and now we want to extend the conversation.
Who did we miss?
Based on your feedback so far we’ve created a list of 20 MEPs with claims to make the top 40. Now we’d like you to vote for the person you think most deserves to join the list.
Here is an explanation of why the original 40 MEPs were chosen.
In 2016, POLITICO readers narrowly chose Eva Paunova (now Maydell), a Bulgarian MEP from the European People’s Party, over Ramon Tremosa, a Spanish liberal MEP, as their favorite missing member of the list.
Voting closed at 6 p.m. on Friday. The results will be published soon.
 

MADRID — Four relatively quiet months into Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s second term and the peace in Spanish politics has been shattered by a row over the conservative leader’s least favorite topic: corruption.
The prime minister was the subject of verbal shellacking Wednesday from his closest ally in parliament, Albert Rivera of the centrist Ciudadanos, who demanded the resignation of the conservative president of the southeastern region of Murcia, under formal investigation since last month for alleged irregularities in the bidding and construction of a local auditorium. Rivera also slammed Rajoy for failing to follow through on a promise to set up a commission to investigate the financing of his center-right Popular Party.
Rajoy is in power thanks, in part, to Rivera’s backing (and to the Socialists deciding to drop their opposition to a PP government). After two elections in which the PP won but fell well short of a majority, a third vote was on the cards for Christmas Day 2016. Ten months of political deadlock ended in part because Rivera offered Rajoy his support, on condition that he agree to a 150-point reform agenda.
So Rajoy governs, but with the smallest parliamentary backing in the history of Spain’s democracy.
Now Rivera says Rajoy is refusing to implement the anti-corruption measures that he promised.
“Everything goes well until we say the word ‘corruption,’” Rivera told Rajoy in the parliamentary chamber, after accusing the prime minister of not keeping his word.
“You have no longer an absolute majority … so the commission will get under way,” Rivera said before suggesting that former treasurers of the PP would have to give evidence to the commission via video link from their cells — likely a reference to Francisco Granados, a top PP official in Madrid, who has given testimony through video conference from prison.
Rajoy responded with a biblical reference, saying it would be better to look to the future “because, if we look back to the past too much, we risk the same fate as Lot’s wife … who turned into a pillar of salt” when she looked back at Sodom.
The prime minister added that a commission looking into party financing could take place in the Senate — the upper house of parliament, where the PP does have an absolute majority — or expand its scope to take in other political parties.
The spat has seriously damaged the PP-Ciudadanos pact and reflects a bigger problem for the pair: they are partners but also competitors fighting over the same voters.
Rivera needs to prove to his supporters — many of them PP defectors — that his lawmakers are making a difference, while the conservative prime minister is trying to win back the confidence of his voter base and would prefer to work alongside the party’s traditional rival, the main opposition Socialists (PSOE). An added problem for Rivera is that his 32 MPs aren’t enough to form a majority with Rajoy, whereas the Socialists’ 85 are.
Pablo Simón, a politics professor at Carlos III University in Madrid, said this could be a crucial moment for Ciudadanos.
“It’s doubtful that they can survive in the middle and long term,” Simón said. He also indicated that the centrist party looks like “the weakest link of Spain’s new multi-party system,” with four political forces having meaningful representation in parliament (the other being the leftist Podemos).
However, Rivera is well aware that corruption has done a lot of harm to the PP in the past. Graft has been Spanish voters’ second biggest concern for years, after unemployment. And with good reason: in the past few months alone, the king’s brother-in-law Iñaki Urdangarín, former International Monetary Fund chief Rodrigo Rato and a number of senior PP officials have been sentenced to prison for economic crimes.
Rivera’s response to Rajoy has been to double down his bet.
He’s teamed up with the Socialists and Podemos to force through the committee into party financing — although it won’t be up and running for some months — and he’s given an ultimatum to Murcia’s president: either he resigns by March 27 and is replaced by a new conservative leader or Ciudadanos will try to force regional elections with the help of Podemos and the Socialists.
At the same time, however, both the PP and Ciudadanos are trying to calm things down. Sources in both parties said they will continue to cooperate on other issues, including the country’s budget. Rajoy told reporters before a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels on Thursday that he would prefer dialogue to fighting with Ciudadanos.
Rajoy also knows that any alliance between Ciudadanos, the Socialists and Podemos is likely to fall apart. The three parties have proven unable to agree on almost anything in the past and Rajoy has a trump card to play: he can call new elections at any time from May and shake up the political landscape once more.
The biggest danger for Rajoy probably comes from the Socialists, which have been rudderless since Pedro Sánchez resigned as leader last October. They’ll choose a new chief in May, which could be a game changer if whoever is picked takes a more aggressive line toward Rajoy.
“The real political term will start when the PSOE has a new head,” said politics professor Simón.
Few people understand it, even fewer can articulate it and millions of euros are spent promoting it — no, not the inner workings of the European Parliament, but the Irish language.
Around 100,000 people speak Gaeilge on a daily basis, out of an Irish population of just over 4.5 million, but despite the small numbers the European Parliament is pushing ahead with an EU and Irish pledge to make it a full working language of the bloc.
However, it can’t find enough people with the language skills to match its ambitious plans, despite the fact that studying the language is compulsory in Ireland until the age of 18.
“There are not enough interpreters on the Irish market,” said a senior Parliament official with knowledge of the EU’s translation and interpretation departments. “They don’t have enough trained people to pass the concours [the tests EU staff must take to get a permanent job] so, for example, many in translation end up being recruited on temporary contracts.”
This year the Parliament has advertised 26 new posts for Irish speakers, recruited 14 Irish speaking contract staffers and is expected to splash out an estimated €3.7 million to cover the costs of translation and interpretation, training of Irish officials and subscription to Irish-language databases to comply with the new linguistic requirement, according to a leaked 2018 budget report from the Parliament’s top staffer, Secretary-General Klaus Welle.
The struggle to find qualified Irish translators dates back to 2007, when it became an official working language of the EU. Because of recruitment and resource concerns, temporary derogations were put in place from 2007 to 2011 and from 2012 to 2016, limiting the amount of translation and interpretation needed. Many Irish translators were hired to work exclusively on regulations adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council.
Although the Council decided in 2015 to extend these exemptions by another five years from January 2017, it also declared that the derogation system would be phased out gradually in order to make Irish a full working language of the EU starting on January 1, 2022.
“No later than June 2021, the Commission shall report to the Council on whether the Union institutions have sufficient available capacity, relative to the other official languages” to put Irish at the same level as other EU languages, the Council said.
Welle’s preliminary report on the assembly’s 2018 budget said the number of documents to be translated into Irish “should increase gradually every year between January 2017 and January 2021.”
Some Parliament officials say the recruitment drive has become more urgent in the wake of the Brexit vote. With Ireland likely to suffer more than any other EU country after the U.K. leaves the bloc, they believe it is important to avoid marginalizing the Gaeilgeoir community.
According to figures provided by the Parliament, its Irish translation unit has 23 vacant posts. In addition, there are two staff interpreters “with passive Irish,” a Parliament spokesperson said — meaning they can understand it but wouldn’t be able to use it at the required level.
The Parliament currently has 14 freelance interpreters “with Irish in their language combination,” of whom “11 are regularly available for the Parliament.” The number of qualified and accredited freelance interpreters in Irish “remains extremely limited,” the spokesperson said. 
Interpretation is currently only provided from Irish into English during the Parliament’s plenary sessions in Strasbourg. “There are currently no plans to recruit staff interpreters for Irish,” an official said.
The European Commission currently has two interpreters with “passive Irish” and three lawyer-linguists who work in Irish and other languages, according to a Commission official. Since Irish became a language of the EU, the European Personnel Selection Office has sought to recruit Irish language translators, lawyer-linguists and assistants.
Despite the low numbers, Ireland has been pushing hard to come up with attractive job offers for qualified Irish speakers.
An official from Ireland’s Department of Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs — the Gaeltacht being the Irish-speaking region — told POLITICO the Irish government had spent more than €13 million to increase “the number of qualified graduates who can meet EU recruitment needs,” including by “educating over 500 students in advanced Irish language skills.”
The official said “a new tranche of funding amounting to €3.87 million for this initiative was agreed for the period 2015-2016 to 2023-2024.”
“It is estimated that 677 students will graduate from these courses over this period,” he added.
About 500 Irish people are employed by the European Commission, including contractors. There are 11 Irish MEPs, including three members of the Sinn Féin party, one of the main advocates of the use of Irish language in Ireland.
In 2015, Sinn Féin MEP Liadh Ní Riada went on “strike” for the duration of Seachtain na Gaeilge, the “Irish Week” which generally runs from March 1-17, refusing to use English in the Parliament to protest against the lack of Irish in the EU.
“It saddens me that as a public representative, an Irish person, and a woman from the Gaeltacht who grew up with Irish, that I cannot use my own language as I go about my work,” Ní Riada said at the International Conference on Language Rights in Dublin in 2015.
EU summits are typically a grand exercise in the voodoo magic of interactive diplo-governance, with officials struggling mightily to negotiate and agree on a set of conclusions that can win the support of all leaders. And that can mean protracted debate not only on major policy issues but on sentence structure,  word choice and even punctuation.
But as a result of Poland’s fury over the re-election of European Council president Donald Tusk, Thursday’s summit meeting ended without the customary accord on a final document.
Instead of the traditional conclusions by the European Council, there were conclusions “by the President of the European Council” and, in the context of EU operations, a dramatic disclaimer: “The European Council deliberated on the attached document. It was supported by 27 members of the European Council, but it did not gather consensus, for reasons unrelated to its substance.”
The disclaimer continued, “References to the European Council in the attached document should not be read as implying formal endorsement by the European Council acting as an institution.”
Those reasons were essentially a protest move by Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło who refused to support any of the conclusions and who tried to insist at a news conference that doing so would render the actions by the Council “irrelevant.”
EU officials said that assertion was false, and that actions taken by the Council in accordance with EU treaties and laws (such as the re-election of Tusk for a second term) were still valid. By treaty, for instance, Tusk’s re-election required only a qualified majority, not unanimous consent.
While some officials painted Poland’s move to block the conclusions as petty, Szydło insisted her country was exercising its legal rights as a co-equal member of the EU. “When it comes to the summit, and blocking it, Poland is taking advantage of a right it has a member country,” she said.
The issuing of informal conclusions is not unprecedented. At a summit in Bratislava in September, leaders also issued informal conclusions because U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May did not attend.
It was the secret document that had the whole of Europe talking* — Jean-Claude Juncker’s white paper on the future direction of the EU.
Now we know the five scenarios the European Commission president had been working on: “carrying on,” “nothing but the single market,” “those who want more do more,” “doing less more efficiently,” and “doing much more together.”
Outlining the five options to the European Parliament Wednesday, Juncker acknowledged the existential struggle the EU is facing due to crises over Brexit, migration and the eurozone. He said it was not a “definitive view” from the Commission but a way to “make clear what Europe can and cannot do.”
And while Juncker tried to stay neutral, there were times when it was clear which his preferred option is.
Here’s a guide to what Juncker said — and what he meant:
What Juncker said: “The future of Europe should not become hostage to elections, party political or short term views of success.”
What he meant: You all need to think beyond the end of your nose. The EU wasn’t built on the back of slogans.
What he said: “However painful Brexit may be, it will not stop the EU as it moves forward into the future”
What he meant: Get back in your box, Theresa May. Twenty-seven is always better than one.
What he said: “Where are you going, Europe?”
What he meant: I’ve lost the map, please help me.
What he said: “Summit after summit we promise we will bring down the unemployment figures, particular youth unemployment … but the EU budget provides only 0.3 percent of European social budgets: 99.7 percent is with the national governments.”
What he meant: I can’t believe you make me stay up until 3 a.m. just to make summit declarations like that.
What he said: “We must make clear what Europe can and cannot do.”
What he meant: I’m sick of you blaming Brussels for everything that doesn’t work out or isn’t popular in domestic politics.
What he said: “Permanent Brussels-bashing makes no sense because there is no basis for it.”
What he meant: Please overlook our special tax rates and high salaries, and just focus on the free mobile roaming.
What he said: “Europe is more than markets, goods and money.”
What he meant: If I could chase the money lenders out of the temple, I would.
What he said: “I am not going to tell you which of them is my absolute preference, though I will tell you Europe cannot be reduced to a free trade area.”
What he meant: I absolutely do not accept Scenario 2.
What he said: “I don’t proceed by issuing executive orders .. I’m not a dictator … we prefer to listen.”
What he meant: You’re a rabble, but you’re my rabble. Please don’t trash the ideas too much.
What he said: “Our darkest day in 2017 will still be far brighter than any spent by our forefathers on the battlefield.”
What he meant: The EU is cheaper than another war. Don’t forget it.
What he said: “We need an honest debate on Europe”
What he meant: I’m looking at you, Marine Le Pen.
What he said: “It’s time for leadership, unity and common resolve.”
What he meant: Your bickering is getting boooooring, dear European Council. Don’t let the U.K. screw us.
What he said: “It’s no longer patriotism when it’s used as a weapon against others.”
What he meant: Mainstream people, stand up for your union and country! Don’t give it over to populists.
(*The commissioners and us hacks, in all honesty.)
Sebastian Gorka, a deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, declined on Wednesday to say whether the president believes Islam is a religion and said the new White House will not listen to “so-called terrorism experts” associated with the Obama administration.
In a morning interview, NPR asked Gorka about Trump’s view on Islam because the adviser had previously declined to answer that same question on the radio station. On Wednesday, Gorka again dismissed the line of inquiry.
“This is not a theological seminary. This is the White House, and we’re not going to get into theological debates,” he said. “If the president has a certain attitude to a certain religion that’s something you can ask him, but we’re talking about national security and the totalitarian ideologies that drive the groups that threaten America.”
Gorka spent the earlier few minutes of the segment defending Trump’s continued use of the words “radical Islamic terrorism” to describe extremist groups like the Islamic State. Gorka denied reports that new national security adviser H.R. McMaster had tried to convince the White House to stop using those words.
“We’re not wavering on this one,” Gorka said. The threat, he added, “is radical Islamic terrorism, and it’s never changed, and it will not change.”
Gorka also defended Trump’s much-criticized executive order that sought to ban people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from traveling to the U.S. After NPR noted that some terrorism specialists say it’s more important to focus on stopping home-grown extremists, Gorka dismissed the expertise of those associated with the Obama administration.
“We’re not going to listen to so-called terrorism experts who are linked in any way to the last eight years of disastrous counterterrorism,” he said. “We’re going to take a new approach. We have a new president.”
Members of a special unit of the military police have joined the team tasked with protecting Dutch far-right politician Geert Wilders after a security scare forced him to cancel public appearances, local media reported Wednesday.
The unit — the Special Security Assignments Brigade — is normally in charge of securing embassies in the likes of Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as protecting Dutch officials and politicians when they travel abroad.
Wilders last week canceled all public appearances until an investigation into a member of his security team has been completed. Dutch media reported that a police officer on Wilders’ protection team — identified as Faris K — had been accused of leaking police information to a Moroccan criminal gang.
Wilders on Wednesday announced via Twitter that he and his party members will start campaigning again.
“The voters want to meet us, and we want to meet the voters,” he said.

The far-right firebrand said he feared for his safety but police disagreed. Wilders has been under 24/7 police protection since 2004.
A bus plastered in anti-transgender messages cannot be driven through the streets of Madrid, a city prosecutor said Wednesday, El País reported. The prosecutor also decided to open an investigation into the group behind the bus over possible hate crimes.
The prosecutor wrote that the bus may incite hate crime, be a threat to public peace, and create feelings of insecurity and fear based on sexual orientation.
The bus was impounded before the prosecutor opened the investigation for a separate violation of breaching advertising rules, but Make Yourself Heard, the Catholic group that sponsored the bus, had announced that the bus would be taken out onto the streets regardless.
A slogan on the bus reads, “Boys have penises, girls have vulvas. Do not be fooled.” It also says, “If you are born a man, you are a man. If you are a woman, you will continue to be one.”
Human rights groups and municipal workers had made it clear that the bus was not welcome in Madrid. According to the BBC, a Socialist Party spokeswoman on Madrid City Council called the bus’s message “contrary to the dignity and rights of transsexual children.”
Madrid Mayor Manuela Carmena said the city council wanted the vehicle out of the city “as soon as possible.”
The president of Make Yourself Heard argued that the group has a right to protest against “laws of sexual indoctrination” and the right to freedom of speech.
The European Commission’s white paper on five ways the EU could develop, which POLITICO obtained this morning ahead of its publication today, is supposed to look to the future, yet the Brexit ghost haunts it throughout.
For a start, without Brexit this report wouldn’t exist or would feature very different language. Brexiteers have succeeded in getting the EU to absorb their core message.
Using language that could come straight out of a U.K. Conservative Party manifesto, the Commission wrote that today “many Europeans consider the Union as either too distant or too interfering.”
The Commission acknowledged it is in an existential struggle about its future thanks to multiple crises — from migration to the economy to Brexit — and noted that “Europe’s challenges show no sign of abating.”
The Commission described a Union struggling with change, one that has doubled in size in 25 years and undergone three separate treaty revisions, but whose global political power is sliding and which is facing breaking point. A Union that “was always the future” is at risk of becoming the past, a rhetorical twist reminiscent of both Tony Blair and David Cameron.
Set in this context the white paper becomes even more relevant to the forthcoming Brexit negotiations.
If the debate among the EU27 now leads to some of the more integrationist ideas gaining traction, that will be bad news for the British government. If this paper can spark a new animating spirit, the EU27’s debate about their own problems will be internally driven. British demands and tactical efforts to divide their opponents in Brexit negotiations will seem like an annoying sideshow by comparison.
But if the EU27 can’t coalesce around any of these ideas, then Britain has an excellent opportunity to drive a wedge through an obviously incoherent EU27 and land a better deal.
Syed Kamall, the most senior British Conservative in Brussels politics, has a similar reading. He said today the EU was good at eliminating barriers but has now lost its way, as shown by recent referendums in not only the U.K. but in the Netherlands, Italy, Hungary and Denmark.
His group, the European Conservatives and Reformists, will back an EU that is “doing less, but doing it more efficiently,” a view that closely resembles the white paper’s “Scenario 4.”
Despite trying hard to remain neutral, the Commission can’t help but let its true colors show through at times. It wants to complete economic and monetary union along the lines of the “Five Presidents’ Report” issued in 2015, which called for a eurozone finance minister and stricter budget controls on eurozone members.
Should it succeed in building consensus, May’s team should prepare to face a rejuvenated opponent.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Bruno Le Maire, a former agriculture minister and senior member of the French conservatives, on Wednesday said he was quitting the election campaign team of François Fillon, who had earlier announced that he was staying in the presidential race.
Le Maire, who was Fillon’s foreign affairs adviser, said on Twitter that Fillon should stick to his earlier promise to quit the race if placed under formal investigation for alleged misuse of taxpayer’s money.
In a hastily-arranged press conference at his campaign headquarters on Wednesday lunchtime, Fillon said he had been summoned by an investigative judge for questioning on March 15, when he will be notified of the next steps in a probe into allegations that he paid his wife and other family members for work they didn’t do.
Fillon said he was staying on. “I won’t give up, I won’t surrender, I won’t pull out,” he said, adding that “only the popular vote, not a biased legal procedure, can decide who will be the next French president.”
Le Maire, who was defeated by Fillon in the center-right’s primary election, said it was essential for the credibility of politicians to stick to their pledges.
Fillon lies third in opinion polls, on about 20 percent of the vote, behind far-right leader Marine Le Pen and independent candidate Emmanuel Macron.
PARIS — François Fillon, the conservative party candidate in France’s presidential election, said Wednesday he would not pull out of the race despite being placed under formal investigation for alleged misuse of public funds.
In a hastily-arranged press conference at his campaign headquarters, Fillon said he had been summoned by an investigative judge for questioning on March 15, when he will be notified of the next steps in the probe into allegations that he paid his wife and other family members for work they didn’t do.
“I won’t give up, I won’t surrender, I won’t pull out,” a defiant Fillon said, adding that “only the popular vote, not a biased legal procedure, can decide who will be the next French president.”
“Some of my supporters … talk about a political assassination. It is an assassination indeed … not only of me, but of the presidential election.”
Fillon said it was “unprecedented” for a judge to take such a step in the middle of a presidential campaign. But he said he would present himself for questioning.
Throughout his campaign Fillon had repeatedly pledged he would fire ministers if they were ever placed under formal investigation, and said he would “of course” step down too if he were put in the same position.
Fillon was the surprise winner of the primary election of mainstream conservative party Les Républicains last November, soundly beating favorite Alain Juppé and former president Nicolas Sarkozy, under whom he served as prime minister from 2007 to 2012.
Ever since the allegations of having used public funds to pay his wife and children for non-existent jobs surfaced in French weekly Canard Enchaîné on January 25, he has repeatedly accused both the current socialist government and the French media of organizing a politically-motivated campaign to force him out of the race.
The French financial prosecutor launched a preliminary probe into the matter and, after deciding there may be grounds to deepen the investigation, transferred the procedure to a trio of investigative judges last week.
With less than two months until the first round of the election on April 23, Fillon lies third in the opinion polls, on about 20 percent of the vote, behind far-right leader Marine Le Pen and independent candidate Emmanuel Macron. The top two candidates from the first round will go forward to a run-off on May 7.
German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said Wednesday that NATO countries should not all have to meet a rigid target of spending 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) on defense, Reuters reported.
“I have a concern that politicians make public promises that they can’t fulfill later on,” Gabriel said during a state visit to Estonia. “There is no apodictic 2 percent goal but rather … we should be moving in that direction.”
The issue of defense threatens to drive a wedge between the main parties in Germany’s coalition government, which is divided over how much the country ought to be spending, ahead of federal elections this fall.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and Defence Minister Ursula Von der Leyen, both Christian Democrats, support an increase in defense spending — currently at 1.2 percent of Germany’s GDP — to meet NATO’s recommended target. Gabriel, a Social Democrat, had previously warned that an exclusive focus on defense spending could unleash a new arms race.
“I don’t know where this money should come from,” Gabriel said last month, in response to Merkel’s statement that Germany would do “everything we can in order to fulfill this commitment,” referring to a 10-year plan to ramp up Germany’s military budget by 2024, which was agreed among NATO member countries at a summit in Wales in 2014.
European countries are under pressure from the Trump administration to share more of the burden for their security. In a speech to Congress on Tuesday, Trump said, “our partners must meet their financial obligations.”
Were Germany to meet the NATO spending target, its military budget would jump from €37 billion to more than €60 billion, making it by far the largest military power in Europe.
The Party for Freedom (PVV), led by Dutch far-right politician Geert Wilders, has fallen to second place in the Peilingwijzer poll aggregator for the first time since November.
If an election was held now, the PVV would win 15.7 percent of the vote, around half a percent less than Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD).
Peilingwijzer combines data from the I&O Research, Ipsos, Kantar Public, LISS-panel, Peil.nl and EenVandaag polls.
The Netherlands will go to the polls March 15.
U.S. President Donald Trump will visit Britain for three days in October, allowing him to bypass a controversial address to the British parliament, the Sun reported Tuesday.
According to the paper, Trump will visit the U.K. October 5-8, and will meet the Queen at her Scottish residence at Balmoral. The visit is scheduled before the House of Commons returns from its recess.
“Trump still really wants to come this year, but he wants the heat to die down a bit first,” a British government source told the Sun. “The White House watch what happens over here surprisingly closely, and they don’t want to create a scene for our sake either.”
Last month, the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, sparked controversy when he said Trump should not be allowed to address the U.K. parliament during his state visit.
The European Commission has outlined five scenarios for the future of the European Union in a white paper obtained by POLITICO ahead of its publication on Wednesday.
The scenarios are entitled “carrying on,” “nothing but the single market,” “those who want more do more,” “doing less more efficiently,” and “doing much more together.”
The paper is an attempt by the Commission, led by President Jean-Claude Juncker, to shape a major debate about the EU’s future following Britain’s shock decision to leave. The document is also intended to influence a declaration by the 27 countries remaining in the EU at the bloc’s 60th anniversary summit on March 25 in Rome.
The paper starts with a somber tone, acknowledging the existential struggle the EU is facing due to crises over Brexit, migration and the eurozone. “Europe’s challenges show no sign of abating,” the paper says. It also notes the difficult balancing act facing the EU, as “many Europeans consider the Union as either too distant or too interfering.”
While generally neutral in its language, the Commission at times makes its preferred option clear. For example, on eurozone governance, the Commission aligns itself with the most federal option by saying it will issue a paper based on the 2015 Five Presidents’ Report, which called for a eurozone finance minister and stricter controls over the budgets of the 19 countries that use the single currency.
Here are more details of the five scenarios:
This scenario assumes that staying the course will involve small, smooth changes to the functioning of the EU. The Commission says “carrying on” will deliver “incremental progress.” This option is based on national governments agreeing to deepen the EU’s single market, pool some military capabilities and “speaking with one voice on foreign affairs,” while leaving key responsibilities like border control mostly in the hands of national governments.
There are some dark clouds hanging over this option in phrases such as “Europeans are mostly able to travel across borders without stopping for checks,” indicating trouble ahead for the visa-free Schengen Zone if changes are not agreed to its management. The Commission warns: “Continuous improvement to border management is needed to keep up with new challenges. If this is not done, some countries may wish to maintain targeted internal controls.”
Here the Commission focuses on the achievement with the broadest base of support: its single market. The Commission is not enthusiastic about this option, noting that “decision-making may be simpler to understand but the capacity to act collectively is limited” and “this may widen the gap between expectations and delivery at all levels.”
With the single market as its main mission, the Commission believes, the EU would face a heightened risk to the euro, because it would have failed to finish establishing the eurozone’s economic governance, leaving it vulnerable to new financial crises.
Companies would likely face more border checks, and EU members would revert to pursuing bilateral foreign policy. Trade deals and defense cooperation would also be more difficult. 
On a day-to-day level, the Commission believes connected cars would not take off in Europe under this scenario “due to the absence of EU-wide rules and technical standards.”
This is effectively a multi-speed EU based on “coalitions of the willing” in specific policy areas such as defense, internal security, taxation or social matters. Under this scenario the Commission assumes that all 27 members would still make general progress on a deeper single market.
The Commission believes this model would lead to differences in citizens’ rights and is not optimistic that eurozone governance could be completed. However, it envisages that it would allow national militaries that have close relations with one another to move quickly into new fields like drone surveillance, or for aligned economies to created a unified business law code.
By “doing less,” the Commission apparently means is “better tackle certain priorities together.” In other words, not “less” but doing more in “a reduced number of areas.”
The major headline achievements would be a fully resourced European Border and Coast Guard, a single voice on foreign policy and the establishment of a European Defense Union.
The Commission sees other priority areas for deeper cooperation as innovation, trade and security. Research could be focused on digitization and decarbonization of the economy.
The Commission points out one problem with this scenario — it relies on EU countries agreeing among themselves on the areas on which they want to cooperate more efficiently.             
Here the EU27 go “further than ever before in all domains” — code for a federal EU.
The EU would get more of its “own resources” (the ability to raise revenue through tax), the eurozone would be completed along the lines of the Five Presidents’ Report issued in 2015. The Commission prefers this option for eurozone governance and said it will issue a reflection paper to that effect in the coming months.
Under this scenario the EU would also assume powers to speak for all of Europe on trade and foreign policy, and would assume global leadership for fighting climate change and on humanitarian issues.
There would be “far greater and quicker decision-making” in Brussels, but the Commission acknowledges “there is the risk of alienating parts of society which feel that the EU lacks legitimacy.”
The EU should get rid of 14 of its 28 European commissioners to save money, Austria’s Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz said.
The foreign minister said commissioners should be appointed on a rotational system among member countries, rather then the current system where every state gets a representative, Reuters reported Wednesday.
He also called on the EU to strengthen its common foreign and security policy and secure its external borders.
“The European Union is too weak at major issues and too dominant in minor segments,” Kurz said.
Germany’s Social Democratic Party (SPD) has a narrow lead on Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) ahead of the German general elections, according to an INSA poll published in Bild Wednesday.
The SPD, which selected former European Parliament President Martin Schulz as its candidate for chancellor, gained 2 percentage points in the last week, and would win 32 percent of the vote if an election was held now. The CDU and its Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union (CSU) lost 1 point, falling to 30.5.
In a separate poll for Stern magazine also published Wednesday, the SPD trailed slightly, with 31 percent of the vote to the CDU and CSU’s 33 percent.
The British House of Lords is likely to vote in favor of an amendment to the government’s Brexit bill that secures EU citizens’ rights living in the U.K., the Guardian reported Tuesday.
The Labour-sponsored amendment calls for EU citizens and their family members who are residents in the U.K. when Prime Minister Theresa May triggers Brexit proceedings, expected in March, to be treated the same after Brexit as they are now.
If the Lords back the amendment, the bill will have to return to the House of Commons for further debate, potentially delaying its passage.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd sent a letter to peers Tuesday asking them not to vote in favor of the change and said EU citizens in Britain will be treated with “the utmost respect.”
U.S. President Donald Trump eased up on his deeply dark rhetoric during his first address before Congress on Tuesday night, instead infusing his speech with aspirational talk of Americans’ “hopes and dreams” while making bold promises about his presidency.
While Trump still engaged in some charged language — including his use of the term “radical Islamic terrorism” — the speech was far less confrontational than his “American carnage” inaugural address and arguably the most unifying moment of his divisive and chaotic first 39 days in office.
Reading almost exclusively from prepared remarks on a teleprompter, the president pledged to provide “massive” tax relief for the middle class, extinguish the “vile enemy” that is ISIS, and rebuild America’s military.
Trump called on Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms that “expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better health care.” He laid out a broad outline of what an alternative would look like, but steered clear of specifics that could jam up negotiations among congressional Republicans.
He also declared that his administration is ready to work with both Republicans and Democrats to improve childcare, invest in women’s health, promote clean air and water, and to strengthen America’s infrastructure.
Not an official “State of the Union” address, Trump’s first speech to Congress is an attempt to stabilize his administration and improve his standing with the public, which views Trump more unfavorably than any other president after only a month in office, and with the members of Congress who will largely determine the nature and scope of his eventual accomplishments.
“Think of the marvels we can achieve if we simply set free the dreams of our people,” the president said. “The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us.”
Trump, who has stoked racial division with his brand of white identity politics, began his address with a nod to African-American history month and by recognizing that “work still remains” for the country to achieve its founding ideals. He also condemned a recent spate of anti-Semitic attacks targeting Jewish Community Centers and cemeteries. “While we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil,” Trump said.
Yet, his remarks included some of the partisan vitriol reminiscent of his campaign.
Trump implored Congress to act “to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster,” despite the significant increase in the number of Americans in favor of the landmark healthcare law that has insured an additional 20 million Americans. Unease is growing among congressional Republicans about the difficulty of following through on years of political promises to roll back the program.
“Mandating every American to buy government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for America,” Trump said. “The way to make health insurance available to everyone is to lower the cost of health insurance, and that is what we will do.”
Although he didn’t say it as bluntly, Trump continued to speak about the supposed mess he inherited upon taking offices, citing lost manufacturing jobs, factory closures, the 43 million Americans on food stamps, a ballooning trade deficit and “a series of tragic foreign policy disasters.”
Trump also touted the accomplishments of his first five weeks in office, highlighting executive orders related to trade, energy development and immigration and claiming credit for a rise in the stock market and a new, more advantageous deal to build a new generation of F-35 jet fighters — even though the contract was negotiated before he took office.
Vowing to keep his campaign promises to the American people, Trump reiterated his pledge to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, despite skepticism among Republicans and Democrats in Congress that the project is worth its $25 billion-plus price tag.
Trump also claimed his revamped travel ban, likely to be signed on Wednesday, will keep the nation safe. “We cannot allow a beachhead of terrorism to form inside America,” Trump said. “We cannot allow our nation to become a sanctuary for extremists.”
After a robust discussion in the days leading up to Tuesday night’s speech, Trump ignored pleas from his newly appointed national security adviser H.R. McMaster to avoid the term “radical Islamic terrorism,” stating each word with added emphasis as he said he is “taking strong measures to protect our nation from radical…Islamic…terrorism.”
Trump on Tuesday night also outlined his administration’s budget proposal and what he described as “one of the largest increases in national defense spending in American history.”
Republicans and Democrats in Congress have already signaled that the Trump budget, which also includes drastic cuts to the Department of State and Environmental Protection Agency budgets, is dead on arrival.
And after campaigning as an anti-immigration hard-liner, Trump issued a call for lawmakers to come together on immigration reform.
“I believe that real and positive immigration reform is possible,” Trump said.
But even as Trump urged lawmakers to come together, he cloaked his characteristic demagoguery on immigration issues in genuine concern and empathy for three invited guests seated in the gallery, all of whom have seen their loved ones, in the president’s words, “viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record.”
And in perhaps the most emotional and unexpected moment of the speech, Trump welcomed the widow of Navy SEAL Ryan Owens, who died in a controversial raid in Yemen.
“I just spoke to General Mattis, just now, who reconfirmed that, and I quote, ‘Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemy’,” Trump said.
In the moment, any lingering questions about whether the highly risky operation, approved by Trump’s new defense secretary, were swallowed up in the poignancy of the moment, as applause rose in the House chamber and the television cameras focused in on Carryn Owens’ tear-streaked face.
“Ryan’s legacy is etched into eternity,” Trump said as the applause continued. “Thank you. Thank you.”
Just in case any NATO members hadn’t gotten the message, U.S. President Donald Trump said it once again Tuesday night: You need to pay up.
The Republican president, in his speech before a joint session of Congress, held firm to demands that other countries in the decades-old military alliance must spend more on defense and not simply count on the United States to cover for them.
“We strongly support NATO, an alliance forged through the bonds of two World Wars that dethroned fascism, and a Cold War that defeated communism. But our partners must meet their financial obligations,” Trump said. “And now, based on our very strong and frank discussions, they are beginning to do just that.”
He then ad-libbed: “In fact, I can tell you the money is pouring in, very much.”
He didn’t offer details, but some NATO states have said since before Trump was elected that they were increasing their defense spending.
Trump’s complaint about other NATO members not spending enough on defense is hardly unique to him. Even his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, urged other NATO members to stop relying so heavily on the United States to financially carry the military alliance.
Only a handful of NATO’s 28 members meet the target of spending at least 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense.
But despite his vows of support for NATO on Tuesday, Trump has often spoken of the alliance in highly dismissive terms, calling it “obsolete” and suggesting that the United States may not stick to its treaty obligations and come to the aid of fellow NATO members not paying their fair share.
That has deeply alarmed NATO members in Europe, who are increasingly wary of Russian aggression. Trump’s insistence that the U.S. needs to improve its relationship with Moscow hasn’t helped.
In what appeared to be a veiled reference to Russia, Trump on Tuesday said, “America is willing to find new friends, and to forge new partnerships, where shared interests align.”
“We want peace, wherever peace can be found,” he added later, noting. “America is friends today with former enemies.”
BARCELONA — A novelist’s “brutal” portrayal of the impact of Basque terrorism on ordinary people’s lives has stepped in to fill the post-conflict vacuum in the northern Spanish region where there has been no peace process and precious little reconciliation.
The armed campaign of ETA (Euskadi Ta Askatasuna, or “Basque Country and Freedom”) ended in 2011 after nearly four decades, but divisions between those who supported the separatist group and the families of its more than 800 victims remain an open wound, and the battle over how to remember the conflict is ongoing.
Fernando Aramburu’s 600-page novel Patria (“Motherland”), which has sold 180,000 copies since it was published in September, has reminded Spain of the dormant power of literature to shake up society. Praised by Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and by Nobel Prize winner Mario Vargas Llosa, it is also recommended by one of the associations of the victims of ETA violence, which would like to see it made compulsory reading in schools.
“The fight has now turned to the account of what happened,” Aramburu told POLITICO in an interview during a visit to Barcelona to promote the book, which is being translated into English, German, French, Italian and three other European languages, while the rights have been sold for a TV series. The 58-year-old author, who has lived in Germany since 1985, hopes his ninth novel can help confront the narrative of those who “glorify the aggressor … and attempt to make an angel out of him.”
“Motherland” tells the story of two families in a Basque village. One household is shattered when the father, a businessman called Txato, is harassed and then assassinated by the separatists. His widow, Bittori, becomes obsessed with finding the murderer and making him ask for forgiveness. The second family’s oldest son Joxe Mari joins ETA, kills in the name of independence and goes to prison. His mother, Miren, reacts by becoming a hardline ETA supporter. Miren and Bittori, the main protagonists, were close in their youth but the violence ruins their friendship.
“These two mothers represent somehow the division of Basque society, a relatively quiet society, enclosed within itself, proud of itself, which enters a spiral of violence, assassination and aggression,” said Aramburu, who has written about terrorist violence in previous works of fiction. “My novel is full of ordinary people … who are confronted with the issue of violence. Like it or not, they need to take sides. It affects them in a direct, tragic manner. And there’s no way out.”
In “Motherland,” Txato’s ordeal starts when ETA targets his business. He complies with the group’s extortion at first, but when he stops paying, the village is plastered with threatening graffiti. His friends stop talking to him, neighbors sing menacing songs, the workers in his factory become aggressive and his family is marginalized. When, one rainy day, he’s murdered, his widow and children are forced to leave the village.
It’s a pattern familiar to Consuelo Ordóñez, president of Covite, an association of relatives of terrorism victims in the Basque Country. Her brother Gregorio, a member of the Basque regional parliament for the conservative Popular Party, was murdered by ETA in San Sebastian in 1995. When she began taking part in public activities against the terrorist group, her name — circled by a bull’s eye target — appeared on walls around San Sebastian. Her law practice suffered and friends became distant. One night, her home was hit by Molotov cocktails. Forced to live under armed guard, she eventually left the Basque Country in 2004.
For Ordóñez, Aramburu “masterfully” captures the suffering and loneliness of the victims of terrorism as well as the “oppressive atmosphere” created in the Basque Country by ETA’s violence, their supporters and the “morally corrupt” majority who remained silent. She would like the text to become part of the curriculum in Spanish schools. “It’s absolutely brutal,” she said. “This novel will be more effective than anything we could say or do in our organization.”
While “Motherland” has been praised by the vast majority of Basque and Spanish political forces, not everyone is wholehearted in their praise, especially among the abertzale, or “patriotic” left, which won 21 percent of votes in the last regional election and largely supported ETA’s violence. Jon Iñarritu, an abertzale lawmaker in the Spanish senate, described parts of the book as clichéd and simplistic and said the “Spanish media establishment” was keen to promote what he described as “a true account but not the whole account.”
Iñarritu and other Basque nationalists — even the ruling, conservative Basque Nationalist Party (PNV), which opposed ETA’s violence — tend to see the decades of violence in terms of a conflict between two sides who both committed crimes and left victims.
From toward the end of dictator Francisco Franco’s time in power until a decade after the transition to democracy, the Basque Country had its own “dirty war” when shadowy paramilitary and far-right groups, acting with the blessing or tolerance of the government in Madrid, killed dozens of people suspected of links with ETA — 73, according to one Basque government report. Other research has compiled 4,000 credible accounts of torture in police custody from 1960 to 2013, most of which went unpunished, resulting in repeated condemnations of Spain from advocacy groups and the European Court of Human Rights.
“Motherland” portrays torture in police custody — Joxe Mari is brutally beaten in detention — and the consequences of ETA prisoners being scattered around Spain, meaning it’s not an easy target for criticism for Basque nationalists. Aramburu’s focus, however, is the suffering of ETA’s victims and the suffocating atmosphere in the Basque Country’s most militant towns and villages.
Jokin Bildarratz, a senator for the PNV and former mayor of Tolosa — a Basque town of 19,000 which was hard hit by the violence — said he has seen with his own eyes much of the drama “Motherland” depicts and had known people who vividly resemble the characters in the book. It provides a balanced account of “the suffering that the existence of a terrorist group inflicted on the Basques’ daily life,” he said, while recommending that readers should compliment it with documentation of the state’s “dirty war” to get the full picture.
Some of that historic tension remains. While ETA has not heeded Madrid’s demands to surrender its weapons, neither has the central government implemented conciliatory measures demanded by most Basque political forces, such as allowing approximately 400 people still jailed for ETA crimes to serve out their sentences in local jails rather than being dispersed across Spain.
Aramburu, who puts the suffering of the Basque country in a wider context where “the behavior of wolves … is directly applicable to human society,” said his adopted home in Germany is close to the site of the Nazis’ Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. Busloads of modern-day German schoolchildren are taken there to learn about the atrocities committed at the camp and to ensure they have “a fairly complete notion of the horrible history of the country and people they belong to,” the author said. “I wish something like this for the Basque Country.”
Retirement home for has-been politicians? Not anymore. Or at least, not so much.
For years, the European Parliament was regarded in many EU countries as a political backwater, a fall-back option for lawmakers who couldn’t cut it at the top level back home. But over the last two years, more than 10 ex-members of the Parliament, such as current Polish President Andrzej Duda, have taken powerful positions in their home countries. And former Parliament President Martin Schulz is running a strong campaign to land the biggest prize of all — the chancellorship of Germany — in elections this September.
“It is a positive sign that politicians with EU work experience are willing to fight for a positive European vision and impact their national parliaments,” said Michael Theurer, a German liberal MEP who is also running for a seat in the Bundestag in the German elections. “Fortunately, the interconnection between national and European political careers is not that special anymore.”
Some parliamentary sources suspect Parliament’s new president, Antonio Tajani, elected to the post in January, may harbor hopes of following the same path. They note that since taking office in January, he has focused extensively on issues affecting his home country of Italy, including a series of earthquakes.
Even politicians who detest the EU, such as Nigel Farage of the U.K. Independence Party and Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’s National Front, have found the Parliament to be a highly effective platform. They have used the assembly to appeal to their national audiences by confronting pro-EU politicians in plenary sessions.
MEPs say the Parliament has gained a higher profile thanks to a number of factors. These include new powers granted to the body by the 2009 Lisbon Treaty, a growing link between national and European politics (manifested by major issues such as the eurozone crisis) and the impact of Schulz, who worked to make the Parliament more visible at meetings of EU leaders and in the media.
“A career at the European Parliament is just as attractive as in the Bundestag,” said David McAllister, a German MEP and former premier of the state of Lower Saxony. “There is a much bigger interest in European politics than there was before,” he added.
McAllister’s detractors say he only ended up in the Parliament because he was voted out of office in Lower Saxony. But he insists European politics is increasingly relevant to people’s everyday lives.
“Until 10 years ago, there was a difference between German and European politics,” McAllister said. “Since the financial crisis, Germans have noticed that they can’t differentiate, that both are overlapping.”
Even before Social Democrat Schulz stood down from the parliamentary presidency to take on Angela Merkel, Germany had some tradition of politicians swapping Brussels for a big job back home.
Friedrich Merz was an MEP before he became leader of the conservative opposition in the Bundestag during the chancellorship of Gerhard Schröder. Armin Laschet, the head of Merkel’s CDU party in Germany’s most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia, is another ex-MEP, as is Stanislaw Tillich, who went on to become premier of Saxony.
But if Schulz defeats Merkel in September, he will be the first former MEP to become German chancellor.
Other politicians who have found the European Parliament can lead to national prominence often come from newer and smaller members of the EU. In these nations, a seat in the European Parliament is a chance to appear on a bigger stage. Andrej Plenković, who was part of the center-right European People’s Party (EPP) group in the Parliament, became Croatia’s prime minister last October. Iliana Iotova from the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats was elected Bulgaria’s vice president in January.
In Malta, political observers say the European Parliament has more influence on the island than its own Parlament Ta’ Malta. Joseph Muscat, the current prime minister, and Malta’s main opposition leader Simon Busuttil were both MEPs. “For many Maltese, MEPs are more important than MPs,” said a Maltese parliament official.
But this path to power is not so well trodden by MEPs from some other countries. Spanish MEPs, an EPP official said, “are sent here as almost a retirement after national politics,” while the French “come here only when they do not have a better national option.”
French MEPs such as Alain Lamassoure or Pervenche Beres have built their careers mainly in the European Parliament. Many French voters consider former conservative ministers like Brice Hortefeux, Rachida Dati, Nadine Morano and Michele Alliot-Marie have used the Parliament as a cushy refuge after being ostracized from the government of former President Nicolas Sarkozy.
“They are generally in Paris,” a Parliament official said of some prominent French MEPs. “We don’t see them often doing political work in Brussels.”
Apart from Farage and Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat former deputy prime minister who served in the European Parliament between 1999 and 2004, there are few examples of British MEPs who have made a breakthrough in national politics.
A Parliament official said current President Tajani did not wish to comment for this story. And the EPP politician has not set out any plan to switch to Italian politics after his term ends. But officials have noticed that he has used his new position to raise awareness of issues affecting his home country. In January, he started his maiden speech as president by paying tribute to the victims of August’s earthquake in central Italy, and paid one of his first visits to three Italian regions affected by earthquakes in recent months.
“It is sure that in Brussels, they need to realize the magnitude of what happened: there have been 20,000 earthquake tremors from August to now,” he told the Italian newspaper La Repubblica in February.
TRIPOLI, Libya — The EU has pinned its hopes on cooperation with a deeply unstable Libya and a ragtag, resource-poor coast guard as it seeks to show it can control migration in a year of major elections in countries including France, Germany and the Netherlands.
When the first cadets of an EU-sponsored training course for the Libyan coast guard graduated in Malta earlier this month, no less a figure than Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, was on hand to celebrate.
The new recruits are part of a multi-million euro program the EU hopes will help it stop the flow of migrants across the Mediterranean — and lower the death toll of a dangerous journey that claimed the lives of 5,000 people last year.
But human rights groups are concerned that the EU’s coast guard program and its efforts to beef up Libyan naval resources will inadvertently boost the smugglers and local militias who exploit migrants and refugees desperate to cross into Europe at any cost.
Six years after the uprising that ended Muammar Gaddafi’s four-decade rule, Libya has no functioning national security services. Rather, a myriad of militias exert control across the country. Three governments vie for power in Libya: one in the East and two in the West. Every town has its own local council, its own armed forces and, in the case of the coastal cities, its own coast guard.
“We have no resources,” Reda Issa, who became chief commander of the Libyan coast guard fleet last November, told POLITICO from the port of Misrata. “We need 10 ships exclusively dedicated to rescue missions as well as helicopters and other equipment.”
Much of the fleet was destroyed during the 2011 revolution. Today, three medium-sized ships and three rigid, inflatable rafts patrol the 600-kilometer shoreline between Zuwara and Sirte, according to officials.
The coast guard has so few resources that an offensive to expel the Islamic State from their stronghold in Sirte late last year was forced to rely on private vessels tricked out with anti-aircraft guns mounted on the deck — the naval equivalent of the armored pickup trucks that can be seen ashore.
Germany, Italy, Greece, Belgium and Britain have pledged to provide training and equipment to Libya’s coast guard as part of Operation Sophia, the EU’s joint naval operation launched in the spring of 2015, aimed at combating human and arms trafficking in the central Mediterranean. At a summit in early February, EU leaders approved an additional €200 million for projects to tackle illegal migration into Europe, which included an additional €3.2 million toward the Libyan coast guard training program.
Issa acknowledged that collaboration between coastal towns, which currently find themselves on different sides of a civil conflict, “could be better” but expressed optimism over the EU-backed program that has trained 89 Libyan cadets and officials since its inception in October.
But Operation Sophia has sparked controversy, partly owing to several incidents between the Libyan fleet and NGOs engaged in search-and-rescue missions in the area.
The country’s coast guard struggles with corruption and infiltration by people smugglers. In a series of incidents last year, the coast guard was accused of beating refugees.
Sea-Watch, a German NGO, asked the EU to reconsider its project to train the coast guard after Libyan sailors reportedly attacked refugees with clubs last October, killing at least four.
Libyan authorities have rejected the allegations and accused NGOs in the area of “violating Libyan territorial waters.”
“We understand the humanitarian goal of these organizations but we ask them to abide by international law. If they want to contact us, all the lines are open,” Ayub Qassem, spokesman for the Libyan Navy in Tripoli, told POLITICO.
Other groups have reported similar incidents. In August 2016, an unidentified speedboat reportedly fired at the Bourbon Argos, a rescue boat chartered by Doctors Without Borders, according to the organization’s communication adviser Alessandro Siclari.
“After some meetings with the Libyan authorities we arrived at the conclusion that the incident was triggered by an initial problem in establishing correct communication lines between the two boats,” Siclari said.
In December, a man who claimed to be a former security force member in the region of Zawiya said the local coast guard charged migrants a fee for every inflatable raft that crossed its territorial waters. He requested anonymity for fear of reprisal. Rafts that had not paid the coast guard’s fees were intercepted by boats carrying local militias and taken back ashore, where the migrants were detained and not released until they paid a ransom, he said.
While such claims are difficult to corroborate independently, the U.N. Support Mission in Libya‘s most recent findings support witness accounts that local officials routinely extort and mistreat refugees, and have participated in human trafficking.
Part of the problem is the lack of a command structure in the Libyan coast guard that goes back years.
“It has always been like that. They have these units which operate mostly on their own,” said Antti Hartikainen, the director general of Finland’s National Board of Customs, who headed an EU mission in 2013 to help the Libyan authorities improve and develop border security.
According to Hartikainen, it is nearly impossible to identify and reprimand crew members on the boats as they don’t wear uniforms or name tags, making it easier for corrupt crew to act with anonymity and impunity.
“The economic situation has deteriorated dramatically over the last years. The government is not able to guarantee [their] salaries so the chances that members of the Libyan coast guard could be linked to mafias are greater,” said Hartikainen.
Operation Sophia’s public reports don’t outline how the EU training program coordinates with a Libyan fleet that lacks a central command. Neither does it address any measures taken to avoid infiltration by individuals linked to the smuggling business.
Despite repeated requests, officials from Operation Sophia declined to comment on the Libyan coast guard’s alleged breach of human rights, the obstacle posed by the lack of a central command in the Libyan Navy and corruption cases within its ranks.
However, a leaked internal Operation Sophia report seen by POLITICO notes that “migrant smuggling and human trafficking networks are well ingrained into local patterns of life, employing facilitators while paying off authorities and other militias.”
A police marksman shot and injured two people at a speech by French President François Hollande, local media reported Tuesday.
The officer was said to have been changing position while on a rooftop in the town of Villognon in western France when a single shot was accidentally fired.
Hollande was in the middle of a speech to inaugurate a new train line when the shot rang out.
Two people were hurt but their injuries were not life-threatening, the BBC reported.
“I hope it’s nothing serious. I think not,” Hollande said.
“The sniper was on high ground when the shot went off accidentally,” Pierre N’Gahane, state prefect of the Charente region, told reporters. “We heard the noise, the president continued his speech. After, he came back down and entered the next room to talk to the people and to see the injured. He spoke to them for a bit and left as planned.”
The European Commission’s White Paper on the future of the EU is a “clear political mistake” that reflects the institution’s “short-sightedness,” according to the leader of the socialist group in the European Parliament.
Gianni Pittella’s comments came a day before the Commission is to release the document on how the bloc should evolve, which Jean-Claude Juncker has been working on in recent weeks.
In the White Paper, the Commission president is expected to lay out different paths for the EU to follow, from a fully-fledged federalist EU to a two-speed Europe, with another option being a Europe that acts like a free trade zone only, according to a speech he delivered last week in Louvain la Neuve, Belgium.
Juncker will provide specific details at a European Parliament debate on March 1.
But in a statement sent to POLITICO, Pittella said he was “disappointed” by the content of the draft he had seen, which he said contained five options.
“We would consider it a clear political mistake to simply present five options concerning the EU’s future without pointing out a clear political preference,” Pittella said, adding that he “can’t accept” going back to “a red-tape Commission” like the one run by Juncker’s predecessor, José Manuel Barroso.
The future of Europe, Pittella said, can’t be sacrificed for “short sightedness or fear of the next national elections.”
Pittella said he had spoken with Juncker earlier Tuesday and urged him to present member countries with “a clear political choice.”
Members of the European Parliament’s legal affairs committee on Tuesday voted in favor of lifting the parliamentary immunity of French far-right presidential candidate and MEP Marine Le Pen for tweeting pictures of Islamic State violence, according to Reuters.
Le Pen posted pictures of ISIS executions on Twitter in 2015 in response to accusations that her National Front party had similarities with the Islamist group.
The committee’s vote will have to be backed by the entire Parliament in a plenary session before it can take effect.
In a separate stand-off with Parliament, Le Pen earlier this month refused to pay back €300,000 after allegations that she used EU money to pay national party staff members.
Le Pen is expected to win the first round of the spring’s presidential election but lose in the second. So far, polls show the parliamentary probe having little impact on Le Pen’s popularity.
Austrian authorities would not have to provide food and accommodation to migrants who are denied asylum and refuse to leave the country, under a draft law approved by the government Tuesday.
“The first thing is basically that they don’t get anything from the Austrian state if they don’t have the right to stay here. Is that so hard to understand?” Interior Minister Wolfgang Sobotka said, according to Reuters.
Sobotka said the law, which will need approval by parliament, was designed to encourage rejected asylum seekers to leave voluntarily.
According to the minister, some 4,000 people receive basic services but should have left the country. Of those, around half could be affected if the law is passed because they are deemed healthy enough to travel to their home countries.
Most rejected asylum seekers in Austria in 2016 were from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria. Asylum applicants who lie about their identities face a €5,000 fine or three weeks in jail.
The European Ombudsman on Tuesday launched a probe into how the European Commission handled the news that its former president José Manuel Barroso had joined Goldman Sachs.
The ombudsman, Emily O’Reilly, sent a letter to Jean-Claude Juncker, Barroso’s successor as Commission president, announcing an investigation into the Commission’s ethics committee, which had ruled Barroso did nothing wrong when he joined the investment bank.
There was outrage when Barroso announced he was taking a job at the bank, with concerns about conflict of interest. Transparency campaigners argued that Barroso was not respecting the pledge for former commissioners not to use their experience at the Commission for lobbying purposes.
Juncker told the ethics committee to look into the Barroso case in September last year, asking if the move broke EU law.
In late October, the committee said Barroso did not break ethics rules but he should be aware of the risk of “reputational damage to the Commission and the Union more generally.”
After the ethics’ committee opinion was given, the Commission proposed tightening rules for its former members.
O’Reilly told Belgium’s Le Soir “there is no evidence on whether they [the ethics committee] listened to anyone, asked to see Barroso’s contract at Goldman Sachs.”
The Commission’s ethics committee is composed of three former senior EU officials — former center-left MEP Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, ex-Commission director general Heinz Zourek and former EU judge Christiaan Timmermans.
Inside No. 10 they are worried about Scotland.
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is snapping at their heels, attacking Theresa May’s “sheer intransigence” on Brexit. By refusing to entertain Scotland’s demand to stay in the single market, May is pushing the country toward a second vote on independence, she wrote in the Times today.
The SNP leader insists she has a “cast iron mandate” to call a second referendum, because circumstances have materially changed since the last vote in 2014. Yet Sturgeon also knows that, formally at least, only the British prime minister has the power to grant a legally binding referendum.
May has hedged her bets.
Scotland had its “once in a generation” chance to leave, she has said. There is not appetite for a second vote — the polls still point to “No.” But May has not formally ruled out the prospect. Some within her party believe she should call Sturgeon’s bluff and kill off Scottish independence for good.
Brexit is an opportunity and a curse for Scottish nationalism. It gives them a reasonable trigger for another vote, but it takes away the option of “soft independence.” With Britain outside the EU, Scottish secession makes May’s Brexit look soft. Scotland would be out of the British single market and customs union — although Sturgeon would dispute that. Keeping the pound would be even more unlikely.
No. 10 is also clear that Scotland will never be allowed into the EU because of the opposition of Spain alone. Taken together, that’s some case to make.
But Downing Street is far from complacent. “Any election in today’s climate is on a knife-edge,” one senior government official told POLITICO.
Fiona Hill, the prime minister’s influential joint chief of staff, is Scottish and relentlessly focussed on the question.
At the moment the plan is to “contain” the issue and play for time, according to sources familiar with the government’s thinking. Kicking the issue down the road beyond 2019 when Britain leaves the European Union, or even after the next Scottish elections in 2021, would allow May to work on a major offer of devolution.
Until then, No. 10 plans to use its industrial strategy to show that it cares about Scotland. Major investment in Aberdeen, the oil city beginning to struggle amid the slump in global prices, is on the agenda.
May’s aides believe David Cameron, Gordon Brown and Tony Blair neglected Scotland by leaving Scotland to Holyrood, creating the impression they were not governing for the whole country. May’s No. 10 is determined not to fall into this trap.
Downing Street is also keen to show that Sturgeon is not “on the same level” as the prime minister and that May is the elected leader of the whole of the U.K., not just south of the border.
It’s not where No. 10 want to be, but they have little choice but to play for time.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
EU leaders should narrow the gap “between promises and delivery,” Jean-Claude Juncker will say at a summit in Rome at the end of March.
The European Commission president’s call for leaders to either promise less or do more will be one of the themes of the Commission’s “White Paper” on the future of the EU, which Juncker has been working on in recent weeks. His message to national leaders is not to overload the EU institutions with work they can’t deliver on.
He also wants to make sure the EU institutions have the power and authority to implement decisions they are responsible for. As an example, give the EU the tools to eliminate youth unemployment or stop promising to wipe it out.
The White Paper is supposed to reignite debate on the future of Europe at a time of crisis — but so far it’s only ignited the curiosity of commissioners who got their chance to look at a draft on Tuesday, a few hours before a special meeting of the “College of Commissioners” in the late afternoon. The paperwork has been closely guarded by Juncker and his chief of staff Martin Selmayr.
In the White Paper, Juncker will lay out a handful of different paths for the EU to follow and have national leaders pick one before the end of the year. They will range from a fully-fledged federalist EU to a two-speed Europe, with another option being a Europe that acts like a free trade zone only, according to a speech he delivered last week in Louvain la Neuve, Belgium.
POLITICO has been briefed on the content and obtained a draft of the foreword, signed by Juncker and dated March 1, which is when it will be published, according to a Commission spokesperson. Juncker will speak at the European Parliament in Brussels on the afternoon of March 1, which is when he will reveal details of his plans.
“A united Europe at 27 needs to shape its own destiny and carve out a vision for its own future,” Juncker wrote in the foreword.
The White Paper is supposed to inform the debate among EU leaders at a summit on March 25 to commemorate 60 years of the signing of the Treaty of Rome. The meeting “must also be the start of a new chapter,” Juncker wrote, adding that “there are important challenges ahead of us, for our security, for the well-being of our people, for the role that Europe will need to play in an increasingly multipolar world.”
Juncker doesn’t expect his proposals to be approved at the first time of asking. “We want to launch a process in which Europe determines its own path,” he wrote, making clear the process will take some time — until the end of year at least, by which time France and Germany will have gone to the polls.
Russia’s relations with the United States are at their lowest level since the Cold War, Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told the parliament in Moscow on Tuesday.
The Kremlin will be watching U.S. President Donald Trump’s first address to Congress later Tuesday for signs that the new administration intends to “create a window of opportunity” for improving relations, RIA news agency quoted Ryabkov as saying.
The Russian official blamed the current impasse in U.S.-Russia relations on sanctions imposed during the Obama presidency in response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014, but stressed that there was “no alternative” to improving relations, according to an Interfax report.
He also denied allegations the Kremlin had spoken to the Trump administration about lifting the sanctions.
“We did not discuss and we do not discuss criteria for the lifting of sanctions. Restrictions in a number of areas are of course affecting us, but no more than the damage they cause to American exports,” Itar TASS agency quoted Ryabkov as saying.
He also stressed it would be easier to come to an agreement on the Syrian crisis once the U.S. lifted the sanctions, Reuters reported.
The resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, who was seen as sympathetic to Russia, and U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis’ statement that NATO should negotiate with Russia from a “position of strength,” have reportedly dampened Russia’s initially optimistic reaction to Trump’s election and caused state media to substantially scale back its pro-Trump coverage in recent weeks.
In early December, the name of a candidate to be the science adviser to the president began percolating in Trump Tower: David Gelernter, the reclusive Yale University computer scientist known for his dripping disdain for the liberal intellectual elite and for surviving an attack by the Unabomber.
Gelernter had no connection to Trump or his top political aides. And he would be an unconventional choice for the post: The 61-year-old professor is neither a physicist nor biologist, as is typical for the post, but a pioneering technologist credited with predicting the rise of the Internet.
But Gelernter has long been friendly with Peter Thiel. He regularly attends an annual conference of iconoclastic thinkers that the Silicon Valley billionaire hosts on the French Riviera. So it was on Thiel’s recommendation that Gelernter sat down at Trump Tower with the president-elect, his chief strategist Steve Bannon, and Thiel himself four days before the inauguration. The meeting followed a prior discussion between Gelernter and senior transition officials.
Gelernter’s potential elevation is just one small sign of Thiel’s growing stature in Trump world. He was a near-constant presence throughout the transition: Working with a staff of four to six aides from an office in Trump Tower, Thiel dispatched associates from his investment firms to help staff agencies across the government. Their reach extended from the Department of Commerce to the Pentagon and eventually to the White House, where one of his closest aides, Kevin Harrington, was recently elevated to the National Security Council.
“Once Election Day came and went, Peter Thiel was a major force in the transition,” said a senior Trump campaign aide. “When you have offices and you bring staff with you and you attend all the meetings, then you have a lot of power.” At the Presidio, the old Army fort in San Francisco where Thiel’s investment firms are housed, many of his employees have taken to calling him “the shadow president.”
The notion is not entirely absurd. If Steve Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, is one ideological pillar of the Trump White House, Thiel, operating from outside the administration, is the other. Bannon’s ideology is a sort of populist nationalism, while Thiel’s is tech-centric: He believes progress is dependent on a revolution in technology that has been largely stymied by government regulation.
Thiel is a contrarian by nature, and his support for Trump was a signature long-shot bet that is paying big dividends in terms of access to and influence on the new administration.
Trump’s surprise victory in November also gave Thiel a renewed faith in the possibilities of politics, and he has worked around the clock to push friends and associates into positions that will give them sway over science and technology policy, an area he believes has been routinely neglected under previous administrations.
That helps to explain why Jim O’Neill, a managing director at Thiel’s venture capital firm, Mithril Capital Management, is now being considered to run the Food and Drug Administration. O’Neill served at the Department of Health and Human Services in the George W. Bush administration but has no medical background. He has argued that drugs should not have to go through clinical trials to prove their efficacy before they are sold to consumers.
“The fact that Jim is even in consideration for the position is astonishing,” said one Thiel associate. “It’s legitimately an outrageous coup for Peter to be able to put somebody at that high a level of government.”
Trae Stephens, a longtime Thiel colleague who oversaw the Defense Department transition, raised the eyebrows of officials as he traipsed through the bowels of the Pentagon asking questions about the government procurement process. Stephens spent several years at Palantir, the Thiel-founded data-mining company that brought a successful lawsuit against the government taking a sledgehammer to the Pentagon’s rigid procurement process. A federal court ruled in October that the company could bid on a $206 million Pentagon contract it would normally have been prevented from competing for.
Inside the Pentagon, Stephens’ focus, according to two sources familiar with the conversations, was on “how one might restructure the DOD’s procurement operations to save money.”
Stephens’ inquiries were “unusual, that’s why people mentioned it to me,” said one of the sources, a former high-level Pentagon official.
The lawsuit, Palantir’s lawyer said in the wake of the October ruling, wasn’t just about the company’s bottom line; it was aimed at “making it more appealing for innovators” to do business in the nation’s capital. Stephens did not respond to a request for comment.
In addition to Thiel and his team in Trump Tower, a handful of Thiel associates also took on critical posts in the Trump transition, with Harrington, now at the NSC, working to fill positions at the Department of Commerce; and Mark Woolway, a Thiel colleague from his PayPal days, doing the same the Treasury Department. Others slated to take on important roles in the administration — such as Josh Wright, who is likely to run the Justice Department’s antitrust division — have come with Thiel’s imprimatur.
A spokesman for Thiel declined to comment for the story. A senior White House official would say only that “Peter has been a very prominent supporter of the president’s and we are grateful for his support.”
An aligning of outcasts
The openly gay, 49-year-old tech entrepreneur and the 70-year-old real-estate magnate have little in common on the surface. But the two share qualities that have made Thiel a valued adviser in Trump world, particularly as the politicians who supported Trump during the campaign — Newt Gingrich, Chris Christie, Rudy Giuliani — have slowly fallen away.
Both Thiel and Trump are outcasts, Thiel in liberal Silicon Valley, where his libertarian politics have set him apart; Trump in the world of New York real estate, where his outer borough bombast made him an object of derision. Both are distrustful of elites and conventional wisdom.
Thiel is a devotee of the Stanford literary critic and philosopher René Girard, most famous for his theory of “mimetic desire” — the idea that people learn to want the same things, which eventually causes conflict. In a 2011 interview with The New Yorker’s George Packer, Thiel said he was troubled by how “disturbingly herdlike people become in so many different contexts,” and that he has “always tried to be contrarian, to go against the crowd, to identify opportunities in places where people are not looking.”
There is no better or more recent example of that than Trump’s candidacy, which upended every law of politics the so-called experts thought held true.
Old-fashioned political connections, forged in Manhattan boardrooms and sleek Silicon Valley office spaces, also helped ease Thiel’s ascension in Trump’s orbit. His initial connection to Trump came through the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Thiel is a longtime investor in the health care startup founded by Kushner’s brother, Josh and Thiel and Jared Kushner had extensive conversations in the spring of 2016 about whether he would become a delegate for Trump in California’s Republican primary.
Thiel went public with his support for Trump in May at the urging of Kevin Harrington, a longtime principal at Thiel Capital with whom he has — as another Thiel employee described it — a sort of “mind meld.” Not only did Thiel serve as a delegate for the GOP nominee, but he delivered a prime-time speech on his behalf at the Republican National Convention and contributed more than $1 million to his campaign.
His high-profile demonstrations of support thereafter won the attention and affection of Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump.
“Thiel is immensely powerful within the administration through his connection to Jared,” said a senior Trump campaign aide.
The Trump campaign bible
Campaign aides also say that Thiel’s 200-page treatise on startups, “Zero to One,”served as something of a bible among Trump campaign staffers. Leafing through the book, which encapsulates some of Thiel’s iconoclastic views, it’s immediately apparent why Trump’s aides were receptive to it. Thiel argues that savvy marketing is as important as a decent product; that it’s better to be bold than to be inconsequential; and that technology rather than globalization will shape the future.
The book originated in a class Thiel taught at Stanford, and Blake Masters, one of his students who became his co-author, was at his side during the transition, conducting interviews with candidates for various administration posts. Also along for the ride: Michael Kratsios, Thiel’s chief of staff, and Charlie Kirk, a 23-year-old wunderkind who blew off college to start a grass-roots organization dedicated to training young conservatives in the art of persuasion — and plugging them into the right networks.
Thiel’s most visible involvement in the transition came during a fleeting moment in mid-December when he organized a summit that brought some of the country’s top technology executives, from Apple’s Tim Cook to Google’s Larry Page to Trump Tower for a meeting with the president-elect. Cameras captured him entering the gold-paneled elevators in the lobby, and, shortly thereafter, Trump gently petting his hand as the tech executives and a slew of reporters looked on in astonishment.
Few remarked at the time how surprising his presence there, and his involvement in the transition, actually were. Thiel has for years pooh-poohed politics. “In our time, the great task for libertarians is to find an escape from politics in all its forms,” he wrote in a 2009 essay published by the libertarian Cato Institute, in which he argued that “we are in a deadly race between politics and technology.”
In “Zero to One,” Thiel argues that technological progress stalled in the 1970s in part because of to the growth of entitlement programs and the explosion of the regulatory state. His venture capital firm, Mithril Capital, pours money into companies that are leveraging technology in new ways. It, too, has deepened his belief that government regulation is impeding technological advancement.
The result, he writes, is that the country — and the world — has seen change without progress.
“The government used to be able to coordinate complex solutions to problems like atomic weaponry and lunar exploration. But today, after 40 years of indefinite creep, the government mainly just provides insurance; our solutions to big problems are Medicare, Social Security, and a dizzying array of other transfer payment programs,” he writes in “Zero to One.”
Life extension technology, in which he has a deep interest, is but one example. “My own guess is that I will live to age 100 to 120, so I’m frustrated that the technologies aren’t going as quickly as they should because of government interference,” he told the libertarian magazine Reason in 2008. He expounded on that view in a 2015 interview with The Washington Post in which he aired his concern that “the FDA is too restrictive,” that “pharmaceutical sales are way too bureaucratic,” and that government is filled with people who are “nimble in the art of writing grants who have squeezed out the more creative.”
Removing those hurdles is precisely what Thiel’s friends and associates across the government will be looking to do, with an eye to bringing about a Thielian world in which people live to 120 years old — on libertarian islands in the middle of the ocean, if they so choose.
Theresa May’s government’s lack of flexibility in Brexit negotiations will be responsible for Scotland’s second independence referendum if it does arise, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in a Times op-ed published Tuesday.
Sturgeon, the leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP), accused May of refusing to address her country’s concerns in preparing for Britain’s exit from the EU. While she did not officially call for a second vote, Sturgeon said it would be justified.
“The SNP was re-elected to government with more votes and seats than Labour and the Tories combined. So as well as justification for a referendum, there is also a cast-iron mandate,” Sturgeon wrote.
The op-ed was published a day after a Times report claimed May’s government was preparing for the SNP to demand another independence referendum. The report expected the call to coincide with May’s decision to trigger Article 50 next month.
While 55 percent of Scots voted to stay in the U.K. in the 2014 referendum, a majority voted against Brexit last year.
The SNP’s manifesto states that another vote is justified “if there is a significant and material change in the circumstances that prevailed in 2014, such as Scotland being taken out of the EU against our will.”
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the detention of Welt reporter Deniz Yücel by Turkish authorities was “bitter and disappointing” and “disproportionately hard,” Welt reported Tuesday.
Yücel, who is German-Turkish, went to a police station on February 14 to inquire about cyberattacks on a Turkish minister and was detained, and has not been released since.
The German government expects the Turkish judiciary to take into account “the high value of freedom of the press for every democratic society” in dealing with the case, Merkel said.
Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said it “raises a glaring light on the differences that our two countries have in their application of the principles of the rule of law and … freedom of the press and freedom of expression.”
EU governments and human rights groups have widely criticized Turkey’s crackdown on dissent since a coup attempt last year.
Andrew Gardner, Amnesty International’s Turkey expert, said Yücel was punished for writing critical articles with Turkey’s “harsh and excessive” anti-terror laws.
President Donald Trump’s new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, advised him in a closed-door meeting last week to stop using a phrase that was a frequent refrain during the campaign: “radical Islamic terrorism.”
But the phrase will be in the president’s speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, according to a senior White House aide — even though McMaster reviewed drafts and his staff pressed the president’s chief speechwriter and senior policy adviser, Stephen Miller, not to use it.
What the president decides to say from the House floor will be an early indication of McMaster’s clout within the administration. In his first remarks to the National Security Council last week, McMaster told his new staff he considered the term “radical Islamic terrorism” unhelpful, according to a second White House aide. “Even a small change like referring to radical Islamist terrorism would be an improvement, in his view,” said this aide.
At the same time, the president’s political advisers fear any sudden change in his rhetoric could open him to charges that he’s abandoning his promise to speak plainly and openly to the American people. Both sides say a gradual shift in the president’s rhetoric over time is possible.
In recent years the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” become a rallying cry for conservatives. President Barack Obama, following the example of President George W. Bush before him, pointedly avoided saying it — citing expert opinion that the wording risks alienating moderate Muslims who hear it as an indictment of their religion.
Obama preferred the phrase “violent extremism,” which makes no reference to a specific religion.
McMaster expressed “great disdain” for that approach, according to a senior National Security Council official. “He understands that pretending that it’s not something within Islam that’s causing this — you can’t pretend that, but you can enlist the people within Islam who agree with you,” said the official.
Fighting in Iraq in 2005 and 2006, McMaster pioneered a counterinsurgency strategy that required him and his troops to live amongst Iraqis, gaining their trust and cooperation. “There’s no question that H.R. was very successful as a counterinsurgent in Tal Afar in 2005 and 2006,” said Max Boot, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of Invisible Armies, a history of guerilla warfare. “Unlike Steve Bannon, H.R. has actually fought insurgents and knows what it takes to fight and prevail. You have to actually work with Muslims and get them to trust you and fight alongside you.”
“We could stay in our F.O.B. [Forward Operating Base] and eat mini pizzas and ice cream and redeploy in a year, but that won’t win the war,” McMaster told the Washington Post at the time.
As the war on terror shifted under Obama, his opponents latched onto his refusal to say “radical Islamic terrorism” as evidence that he failed to understand the nature of the terrorist threat and how best to combat it—and in some cases used Obama’s resistance to the phrase to falsely suggest the president was himself Muslim.
Trump made the phrase a core theme of his campaign, culminating in an August 15 speech in Youngstown, Ohio, entitled “Understanding the Threat: Radical Islam and the Age of Terror.”
“Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead this country,” Trump said. “Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.”
The speech made five references to “Radical Islamic Terrorism” — capitalized in the original text—and seven more to “Radical Islam.”
Sebastian Gorka, a White House advisor with a background in counter-terrorism, told a crowd at last week’s Conservative Political Action Conference that the president’s remarks in Youngstown were key to understanding his foreign policy.
Trump also used the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” in his January inaugural address. “We will … unite the civilized world against radical Islamic terrorism which we will eradicate completely from the face of the earth,” he said.
Gorka assured National Public Radio earlier this month that Trump was ushering in a new era in which — free from the political correctness that the president believes shackled the previous administration — the U.S. would identify its enemies forthrightly.
“What is the phrase [Trump] uses again and again and again? It’s not Islam. It’s not a discussion about Islam as a religion or not a religion. It’s about radical Islamic terrorism,” Gorka said. “We are prepared to be honest about the threat. We’re not going to white it out, delete it as the Obama administration did.”
McMaster’s appointment as national security adviser and reports that he endorses the past rhetoric of Obama and Bush has already alarmed members of the self-proclaimed “counter-jihad” community, which views Islam as an inherently violent religion.
Uttering the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” is “central to the promises [Trump] made to the American people,” said Frank Gaffney, founder and president of the Center for Security Policy, who backs hardline policies against Islamist influence at home and abroad.
Gaffney said he’s skeptical of reports that McMaster has declared his opposition to using the phrase.
“It just seems kind of incredible that a guy would come into this job knowing the importance that the president has assigned to this, and start out his tenure by fundamentally departing from that direction,” Gaffney said. If true, he added, “I think this would be getting off to a very bad footing.”
Douglas Carswell, UKIP’s sole representative in the House of Commons, ought to be thrown out for attempting to “split and divide” the party “in every way imaginable,” former leader Nigel Farage said in an op-ed in the Telegraph published Tuesday.
“He is consumed with jealousy and a desire to hurt both UKIP and me,” Farage wrote. “I think there is little future for UKIP with him staying inside this party.”
The call to oust Carswell comes amid reports the MP frustrated Farage’s attempts to be knighted. In leaked emails between Carswell and Malcolm Pearson, a UKIP member of the House of Lords, Carswell mocked Farage, suggesting he should be knighted for “services to headline writers.”
UKIP has faced a series of setbacks since Britain’s Brexit vote.
Its leader Paul Nuttall failed to gain significant ground in a by-election in Stoke-on-Trent Central last week, which heavily voted to leave the EU in last year’s Brexit referendum. His campaign suffered a blow after he was forced to admit his claim that he lost “close, personal friends” in the Hillsborough tragedy was false. Two UKIP chairmen resigned in protest over the incident.
LONDON — To the outside world, Jeremy Corbyn looks doomed. But on the inside, the Labour Party leader’s closest aides are digging in for the long haul.
After last week’s disastrous by-election defeat to the Conservative Party in Copeland, Corbyn’s future was again called into question. For the first time even his closest supporters such as union boss Len McCluskey were showing signs of “peeling away,” according to Labour deputy leader Tom Watson.
But in the Labour leader’s office, left-wing hardliners have taken complete control. Amid the turmoil of leaks, defeats and resignations that dogged the leader’s team throughout February, Corbyn’s most influential officials Seumas Milne and Karie Murphy launched a power grab to take over the party machine, according to aides familiar with the situation. Milne is the party’s executive director of strategy and communications; Murphy is executive director of Corbyn’s office — a de facto chief of staff.
After Corbyn’s well-liked campaigns chief Simon Fletcher abandoned ship earlier this month, Milne and Murphy seized control. Under an internal reorganization, the Labour Party’s campaigns, political strategy and communications will be centralized under the pair’s command, with an expanded team of officials and MPs reporting directly to Milne, aides familiar with the changes said.
The revamp is designed to “streamline” the leader’s office ahead of a radical policy relaunch “within weeks.” This is not the first time Corbyn’s camp has talked of a relaunch. But officials insist they will soon unveil a platform of populist left-wing policies that they believe will resonate with the public even though such concepts have been considered outside the political mainstream since the 1980s.
The maneuverings and mindset of Corbyn’s closest aides highlight their undiminished determination to protect his leadership at all costs, dashing hopes of many Labour MPs that he might be prepared to quit. If Corbyn’s aides are to be believed, having briefed POLITICO on condition of anonymity, only an organized plot with significant union and grassroots membership support has any chance of removing him from office.
Corbyn’s “core group” of about 20 MPs and officials — now dominated by the Milne-Murphy axis — might be smaller, but it is also tighter, more ideologically committed and as determined as ever to defend their left-wing project, according to conversations with Labour officials who have worked in, or continue to work in, the leader’s office. Rumors suggesting otherwise are part of a “false narrative” spun up by Labour dissidents to undermine Corbyn, the leader’s closest aides told POLITICO.
“Everyone is incredibly motivated politically in the core group,” one official close to Corbyn said, determined to bury any notion that they were wavering in their determination to stay on until 2020, the expected date of the next U.K. general election. “We want to put forward a radical policy agenda. We are very passionate about doing that.”
A second official inside Corbyn’s inner circle was more blunt: “He wants to be prime minister. He believes the world is in flux and this is a moment when he can deliver radical policies that will change Britain for the better in a short period of time.”
The official said Corbyn also believed he had a duty to represent the Labour members who voted for him. “Look, he withstood everything that was thrown at him last time [during the leadership election last summer]. The idea he won’t now is for the birds. It his chance to enact his vision of socialism — this opportunity won’t come around again.”
But Corbyn’s internal opponents believe that even those on the left of the party may ditch him eventually if they conclude that his leadership is harming their electoral chances, one senior Labour Party official hostile to the leadership explained. “I’m working on the assumption that he will be gone next year,” the official said.
Two of Corbyn’s closest allies, the Labour MP Diane Abbott and Unite union chief McCluskey have either unwittingly or wittingly given him deadlines to turn around the party’s disastrous poll ratings. Labour are currently as much as 18 points behind the Conservative Party.
“I’m confident we can close the gap in the coming 12 months,” Abbott told the BBC in December. A month later, McCluskey suggested the Labour leader would step aside in 2019 if the polls had not turned.
Corbyn’s closest advisers insist the party’s poll numbers will turn if their policies are given a fair hearing. They blame internal opponents for creating a “false narrative” of chaos and division, which, they say, is stopping them communicating their message to the public.
To get a grip on the message, Corbyn’s most senior aides believe they need to root out opposition and centralize control in the leader’s office, Labour officials — both supportive and skeptical of the move — told POLITICO. The change is designed to cut out non-Corbynite Labour Party staffers and MPs. Corbyn loyalists accuse the dissidents of leaking of internal polling and focus group results to newspapers which present them as “succession planning” by a leadership preparing to throw in the towel.
The revamp was made easier by the resignation of Fletcher, who fell foul of the increasingly dominant Milne-Murphy axis, according to an ally of the former campaigns chief.
A four-strong “senior management team” which runs Corbyn’s office on a “collective flat structure” has taken on even more power, officials say. The group is led by Milne and Murphy, alongside policy chief Andrew Fisher and the former MP Katy Clark, who manages Corbyn’s relations with MPs. The four Corbyn aides join about 20 MPs who meet every week for an hour on Mondays as the “core group,” away from the rest of their parliamentary colleagues.
Fletcher’s departure has boosted Milne’s position in particular. While Fletcher was part of the top team in his own right, reporting to the Labour Party General Secretary Ian McNicol, his replacement will work under Milne, with campaigns now the responsibility of the leader’s office.
Two new national campaign coordinators, MPs Andrew Gwynne and Ian Lavery, have also been brought into the leadership office under Milne. Their predecessor John Trickett reported to Fletcher.
Overall, Milne is recruiting three new members of staff to report directly to him — in addition to two who already do so, Matt Zarb-Cousin and James Schneider. The speechwriter David Prescott, the son of former deputy prime minister John Prescott, also reports to Milne, but is shared with Fisher.
The Labour leader’s team say they plan to take on and defeat a “false narrative” of crisis that is undermining their ability to get their message across. They believe an “alternative narrative” is more plausible — that they are under attack from the right of the party, led by Tony Blair and Peter Mandelson, a close associate of the ex-prime minister who served as a minister and European commissioner.
Blair’s big pro-EU speech this month is also eyed suspiciously inside the leader’s office, where officials suspect it was meant to undermine the party’s by-election chances in Stoke-on-Trent Central, which heavily backed Brexit. “The timing of Blair’s intervention was very unhelpful from the point of view of the Stoke by-election,” one aide said. “Blair should’ve realized it would be damaging to the party.”
Labour held onto Stoke but that was overshadowed by the historic defeat in Copeland. Losing a constituency it has dominated for decades was a bad day for Labour, but not bad enough to prompt Corbyn to go. If his closest aides have their way, nothing will.
U.S. diplomats and aid workers have been afraid that President Donald Trump wants to sideline them in favor of the military.
On Monday, they got even more reason for concern.
The Trump administration is developing a federal budget proposal the White House says will give defense programs a $54 billion boost while cutting funding to the other agencies, including the State Department, and especially foreign aid programs.
Lawmakers, foreign embassies and others were scrambling to get the details of the budget plan Monday. Officials at the State Department declined to share their budget reduction targets — it was not clear if the guidance had yet been delivered to them — but some reports forecast as much as 30 percent reduction, a devastating blow.
The proposed cuts are the latest sign that Trump is bent on pursuing hard military power, not diplomacy or other “soft” tools, as the main vehicle to advance U.S. interests abroad. It’s a stance that could put Trump at odds with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson as well as Defense Secretary James Mattis, who once told lawmakers: “If you don’t fund the State Department fully, then I need to buy more ammunition.”
Critics of the Trump budget plans noted that cuts to foreign aid could damage the U.S. standing in numerous strategically important countries. Beneficiaries of American non-military aid include Pakistan and Afghanistan, which are critical to U.S. anti-terrorism efforts.
More than 120 retired generals and admirals sent a letter on Monday to the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate, urging them not to cut foreign aid and State.
“The military will lead the fight against terrorism on the battlefield, but it needs strong civilian partners in the battle against the drivers of extremism — lack of opportunity, insecurity, injustice, and hopelessness,” the military leaders wrote in the letter, which was distributed by the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition. “We urge you to ensure that resources for the International Affairs Budget keep pace with the growing global threats and opportunities we face. Now is not the time to retreat.”
Funding for the State Department and foreign assistance falls under what’s called the “international affairs budget,” a category that doesn’t include the military. Those programs overseas — including everything from embassy security to pandemic prevention to refugee assistance via the United Nations — cost roughly $58.8 billion. The vast majority of that figure goes to the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development. While polls show many Americans believe the U.S. spends a quarter of the federal budget on foreign aid, it’s actually less than 1 percent.
On a call with reporters, officials with the Office of Management and Budget noted that most federal agencies will be expected to trim their budgets. But they singled out foreign aid programs in particular, indicating the administration believes that other countries are merely taking advantage of the United States.
“This budget expects the rest of the world to step up in some of the programs this country has been so generous in funding in the past,” one official said on the call.
James Stavridis, a retired admiral briefly floated as a possible secretary of state for Trump, said trying to separate foreign aid from other parts of the national security apparatus was short-sighted.
“You need the hard power, and I applaud a strong allotment to the Department of Defense, but to do that on the back of soft power, which is also part of our national security, is simply a mistake,” Stavridis said. “This will reduce our ability to build a bench of allies and that bench is critically important in places like Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya [and] counter-piracy missions.”
Mark Toner, State’s acting spokesman, declined to give specifics about what divisions of his department could be affected. “The department remains committed to a U.S. foreign policy that advances the security and prosperity of the American people,” Toner said in a statement.
But other State officials said they were girding for a fight in Congress and beyond.
“It’s a bad sign, but we’ll see what actually happens in practice,” one department official said. “No one’s gonna stand pat.”
Democrats in Congress argue that cuts to foreign aid and diplomacy will actually undermine U.S. national security by leading to more failing states in the developing world and fanning anti-Americanism.
“Foreign assistance is not charity. The aid we provide to countries around the world directly advances U.S. national interests by fostering a safer and more stable world,” said Sen. Chris Coons, a Democrat from Delaware. “Fortunately, members of Congress of both parties appreciate the value of foreign assistance to our foreign policy, and I’m confident Republicans and Democrats will work together to defend this small but vital sliver of federal spending.”
Some at the department hope that Tillerson, the former CEO of ExxonMobil, will be able to exert some influence on Trump. But so far, Tillerson appears unable to crack Trump’s inner circle, although an aide said the secretary was advised of the budget plans ahead of Monday’s announcement. He was due to meet with Trump on Monday afternoon. The Tillerson aide did not immediately respond when asked if the secretary agreed with the cuts.
The fact that Tillerson has yet to appoint a deputy secretary — his first choice, George W. Bush administration veteran Elliott Abrams, was vetoed by Trump — or fill many other top positions at the department has fueled suspicions at State that the department is intentionally being left to wither under Trump, possibly for budget-cutting reasons.
When counting all of its employees, from Foreign Service officers to local employees hired in embassies abroad, more than 75,000 people work for the State Department.
Alex Guillen contributed to this report.
Turkey on Monday hit back at Austria’s foreign minister, who had said President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan was not welcome in the country as he campaigns ahead of a referendum on constitutional reform.
Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmuş said the April 16 referendum, which if approved would increase the powers of the president, did not concern Austria.
“We will carry out our referendum campaigns in Europe just like we will do it in Turkey,” he said.
Earlier Monday, Austria’s Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz told local media that Erdoğan could come to Austria for a bilateral visit “like any other top politician,” but added that “election campaign appearances are not welcome.” The president has campaigned among Turks living in Europe ahead of previous elections.
Earlier this month, the government of the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia said it wanted to stop Erdoğan from visiting Germany, after Prime Minister Binali Yildirim addressed a conference where he spoke to Germany’s Turkish-speaking community.
French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve on Monday criticized François Fillon for claiming that the presidential election campaign had become “a quasi civil war.”
“I can understand that certain candidates are tempted to hide their campaign difficulties behind polemics,” Cazeneuve said, adding that “using the term quasi civil war … is simply not responsible behavior.”
He said the comment reflected “a debasing of public debate,” according to the Times.
Fillon, who was placed under judicial investigation Friday as part of a payments scandal involving his wife and children, said on Sunday that “thugs and enemies of democracy” were disrupting the campaign, citing violence at rallies held by Emmanuel Macron and the National Front in recent days.
“The government has allowed a climate of quasi civil war to develop,” he said. “We are in a state of emergency but the government allows this to go on.”
Although Fillon had pledged to quit the race if he was placed under formal investigation, he has now said he will fight on.
Recent opinion polls suggest that Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, has extended her lead in the first round of the presidential election on April 23. Fillon would come third, behind Le Pen and independent candidate Macron, according to the polls.
Former President George W. Bush said Monday that the media is “indispensable to democracy,” a break from the position of his fellow Republican, President Donald Trump, who has called the press “the enemy of the American people.”
“I consider the media to be indispensable to democracy. That we need the media to hold people like me to account,” Bush told Matt Lauer, anchor of NBC’s “Today” show. “I mean, power can be very addictive and it can be corrosive and it’s important for the media to call to account people who abuse their power, whether it be here or elsewhere.”
Just over a month into his presidency, Trump has shown no sign of letting up in the pitched battle he waged against the press during his campaign, when he banned certain outlets from covering his events for months. Since assuming office, the president has derided multiple media outlets, including The New York Times and CNN, as “fake news” after those outlets and others published reports that were critical of his fledgling administration.
Perhaps inspired by chief White House strategist Steve Bannon, who has referred to the press as the administration’s “opposition party,” Trump launched into an extended anti-media riff during his remarks last week at the Conservative Political Action Conference. Noting that he is “only against the fake news media or press,” Trump lashed out at an industry that he believes has treated him unfairly from the moment he entered the presidential race.
“I want you all to know that we are fighting the fake news. It’s fake, phony, fake,” Trump said at CPAC, remarks that would be followed hours later by the White House’s decision to exclude multiple media organizations from a Friday press gaggle. “A few days ago, I called the fake news ‘the enemy of the people,’ and they are. They are the enemy of the people. Because they have no sources. They just make them up when there are none.”
The White House has also struggled to plug leaks that have proven damaging or embarrassing to the administration, in one case forcing the resignation of national security adviser Michael Flynn just weeks into Trump’s first term. On Sunday, POLITICO reported that White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer forced members of his communications staff to hand over personal and government-issued cell phones for inspection, to prove that they were not the source of leaks.
Recalling his own presidency, when he was often the target of withering media critique, Bush said he devoted significant time to extolling the virtues of a free and independent press around the world, including to Russia’s strongman president, Vladimir Putin. Trump has publicly lavished praise on the Russian president, but Bush said it’s important for the U.S. to support set a strong example for leaders like Putin.
“One of the things I spent a lot of time doing was trying to convince a person like Vladimir Putin, for example, to accept the notion of an independent press,” Bush said. “And it’s kind of hard to, you know, tell others to have an independent, free press when we’re not willing to have one ourselves.”
A spokesman for Bush confirmed on Election Day 2016 that both the former president and his wife had voted for “None Of The Above for President” instead of casting a ballot for the Republican nominee. Trump spent months pillorying Bush’s brother, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, as “low energy,” prompting nearly the entire Bush clan to, for the most part, conspicuously avoid the president.
Bush’s father, former President George H.W. Bush, indicated to a friend last September that he intended to break with his party and vote for Democrat Hillary Clinton for president. The only member of the Bush family to publicly support the president was Texas Land Commissioner George P. Bush, Jeb Bush’s son, who backed Trump only after he had secured the GOP nomination.
Despite his unwillingness to support Trump at the ballot box, Bush said Trump should be given a chance to act on his stated desire to bring the country together. The former president said his Republican successor faces a tougher media environment than he ever did.
“I think you have to take the man for his word that he wants to unify the country, and we’ll see whether he’s able to do so,” Bush said. “It’s hard to unify the country with the news media being so split up. When I was president, you know, you mattered a lot more because there was like three of you and now there’s all kinds of information being bombarded out and people can say things anonymously. It’s just a different world.”
Construction of a second fence along the Hungarian border with Serbia is underway, a spokesman for the government in Budapest said Monday, Reuters reported.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s chief of staff Janos Lazar last week said the second fence will likely be completed by the end of spring, weather permitting. He said the government set aside more than €120 million for its construction.
A barbed wire fence was erected in 2015 along the border as Hungary cracked down on migration. It effectively blocked the route to Germany, the destination of many of those fleeing the crisis in Syria. Budapest said a second fence would make the barrier stronger and hold back migrants while their asylum applications are reviewed.
Activists criticized the announcement. “The European Commission should not stand by while Hungary makes a mockery of the right to seek asylum,” Human Rights Watch’s deputy director Benjamin Ward said.
The construction of the second fence is part of a renewed crackdown on migration in Hungary, which earlier this month announced plans to detain asylum seekers in “shelters” indefinitely until their status is resolved.
A European Parliament committee is scheduled to discuss the state of fundamental rights in Hungary later on Monday.
British Conservative MPs want the European Union to hand back the party’s former central London office as part of the Brexit deal.
The party was forced to sell Conservative Central Office at 32 Smith Square, close to the Thames and a short walk from parliament, in 2007 to raise funds. To the dismay of Euroskeptics, the buyer was the EU, which renamed it Europe House and raised an EU flag next to the Union Flag.
Now, Tories are calling for the building, the site of Margaret Thatcher’s election victories, to be returned, the Financial Times reported.
Prominent Brexiteer Jacob Rees-Mogg said, “I think it would be a wonderful gesture if [European Commission President Jean-Claude] Juncker got to keep the stocks of Château Lafite [in the EU’s shared wine cellar] and in return the EU gave us back 32 Smith Square.
“It’s an iconic building in the history of the Conservative party, as the home for Margaret Thatcher’s great election victories.”
Another Tory, Conor Burns, said, “For sentimental reasons I would love to see 32 Smith Square brought back to a more productive use as a campaign headquarters.
“I fancy perhaps the European Commission would be willing to relinquish it as they will require a substantially larger premises as a new embassy to engage with what will be one of the largest external independent neighbors.”
Forget America First or the new nationalism or any of the other isms that have been offered as explanations for Donald Trump’s emerging foreign policy.
Want to really understand Trump’s philosophy of international relations?
Just listen to Sebastian Gorka, the Breitbart propagandist and Hungarian ultranationalist turned White House national security aide. He’s been saying it loud and clear for a couple months now whenever he’s asked about Trump’s foreign policy and how the new president will shake things up globally: “The alpha males are back.”
“Our foreign policy has been a disaster,” Gorka told Fox’s Sean Hannity before the inauguration. “We’ve neglected and abandoned our allies. We’ve emboldened our enemies. The message I have—it’s a very simple one. It’s a bumper sticker, Sean: The era of the Pajama Boy is over January 20th and the alpha males are back.”
He’s repeated the phrase several times since, and it strikes me as perhaps unintentionally helpful in trying to sort through Trump’s largely unformed and at times outright contradictory foreign policy views.
It can be hard to parse the president otherwise. Is Trump really an anti-free trader who wants to end globalization—or an international businessman turned politician who simply wants a “better deal”? Does he seek more aggressive military measures and a tougher approach in the Middle East—or to give up and go home altogether? Will he get the United States into new confrontations with China, Iran, North Korea and others? Or is he actually a peacemaker in waiting, one who can finally work with the wily Russians and get the grand bargain done between the Israelis and the Palestinians that eluded all his predecessors?
At different times, Trump has suggested all of the above—never mind that they are not necessarily compatible. We here in Washington continue to try to understand Trump on our terms; we look for intellectual frameworks and policy architectures and historical worldviews. But Trump has made it clear his disdain for American foreign policy as it has been practiced over the last few administrations of Republicans as well as Democrats; his version of national security has much less to do with ideology, and much more to do with what he would call losing rather than winning. It’s about approach, mindset—and who’s doing it—much more than about what’s being done.
Which is why Gorka’s comments, highlighted again a few days ago in a revealing Washington Post profile, seem so relevant. Trump’s foreign policy, Gorka says, will be a macho foreign policy, when tough guys will once again rule the world and wimpy Democrats (and maybe democrats?) are left on the sidelines.
This, of course, is not an entirely new notion. Author Robert Kagan posited that Americans are from Mars and Europeans are from Venus in attempting to explain the more militarized view of national security that led President George W. Bush to the war in Iraq. In a pre-Trump era of American politics, it was commonplace to argue that Republicans were the martial party and Democrats the diplomacy-minded Venus party. Those debates grew sharp throughout the last eight years, as Obama came to office vowing to pull America out of the destructive Middle East wars pursued by Bush and emphasized “engagement” and, ultimately, dealmaking with American adversaries like Iran and Cuba.
Then came 2016, when Hillary Clinton ran as a more hawkish Democrat than the man she served as secretary of state—but also as the representative of an alliance-loving global elite with a human rights-minded tendency to lecture the world’s tyrants rather than want to do business with them.
Now that he’s president, Trump has taken the gendered politics of foreign policy to a whole different level. As the Alpha Males slogan suggests, it’s both a worldview for Trump and his team—and a philosophy of who and how to get the job done. It helps explain why he’s staffed his national security team and the power positions in his Cabinet with brawny, uniformed military officers—and also his oft-stated regard for various authoritarian strongmen leaders, such as Russia’s Vladimir Putin or Egypt’s Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi.
* * *
“Tough talk is quite easy. Bullying is quite easy,” says Wendy Sherman. “Getting something done in the world is quite complicated.”
“One of the lessons for the alpha males,” adds Michele Flournoy, “is to actually start with the facts.”
I asked Sherman and Flournoy, two of Washington’s most alpha of Alpha Ladies, to talk about Trump’s macho foreign policy—and what it’s really like to be a woman in the Situation Room—in an interview for this week’s edition of our new podcast, The Global Politico. Flournoy, the top policy official in Obama’s Pentagon, was in line to become the first woman secretary of defense had Clinton won the election; Sherman, who served as the chief negotiator of Obama’s Iran deal as his undersecretary of state for political affairs, was mentioned as a possible secretary in a Clinton administration. They were joined by Madeleine Albright, who became the first woman ever to hold the job of secretary of state when Bill Clinton appointed her to the post in his second term.
Trump has taken particular aim at the Iran nuclear deal Sherman negotiated, arguing it was a bad deal, the “worst” ever, and insisting he would blow it up once in office—a campaign pledge that now seems unlikely as even foes of the deal like Israel and many Republicans in Congress instead urge President Trump to focus on tough enforcement of its provisions rather than seeking to undo it altogether.
Sherman argues in the interview that without the Iran deal, “you’d probably be at war.”
Flournoy agrees, in an answer that is particularly revealing as to how she and the others choose to interpret Trump’s Alpha Male theory of the world:
“I can tell you as someone who was responsible for oversight of military planning in the Pentagon, had Wendy failed and the negotiations failed, the only option left on the table would have been to use military force to take out that program and we would have gone [and done that]. That would have started a third war in the broader Middle East… So let’s be fact-based and realistic about the consequences of the policy choices that were made…. Tough talk is easy, but actually advancing American interests in a way that’s smart is a lot harder.”
In our conversation, Flournoy, who is now CEO of the bipartisan think tank Center for a New American Security, discusses for the first time publicly her decision not to go work for the Trump administration, after having been asked to serve as deputy to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. She says she declined because it would violate her “sense of values” to work for Trump.
“I knew,” Flournoy says of Mattis, “that he needed a deputy who wouldn’t be struggling every other day about whether they could be part of some of the policies that were likely to take shape.”
I was struck throughout the wide-ranging conversation by how difficult it still is to analyze Trump’s foreign policy by any of the standard Washington measures; Flournoy in particular kept struggling to offer rational, academic even, arguments about why an Alpha Male foreign policy wouldn’t work, citing studies about the benefits of diversity and the like. In explaining the Alpha Maleness of the new administration, Sherman looked to the politics of anger Trump has stirred up and, interestingly, connected the president’s disdain for the regular order of the interagency process that generally helps shape national security policy for an administration to his desire to play the strongman. That interagency process, developed over time by administrations of both parties, she argues, is “the difference between a democrat and an autocrat.”
Albright, meanwhile, articulated the case against Trump’s machismo in more explicitly political terms. I had asked whether Trump had a point in any of his critiques of current American foreign policy after eight years of Obama, and whether and how much they were doing soul-searching as Democrats about the state of the world.
“This is not President Obama’s fault,” Albright responded. “I could more likely blame President Bush and the Iraq War that I think was one of the really discontinuous activities that made the American people tired” of foreign policy adventures abroad that seemed to bring only expenditures of blood and treasure without achieving their stated aims.
As for the prospects of a Trump reset for foreign policy, Albright brought it back around to the lack of women at the table, pointing out that of the major Cabinet posts, women now hold only two, secretary of education and secretary of transportation—neither with Situation Room responsibilities. There are, she insisted, real-world consequences of having a national security team with too many Y chromosomes.
“I hope we are not in the world of the alpha males, because they have made an awful lot of mistakes,” Albright said. “And they prod each other onto more alphaness.”
 * * *
One of the signature photographs of Barack Obama’s presidency is the Situation Room picture of the president and his top advisers watching the jaw-dropping Special Forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden, with Hillary Clinton, then the secretary of state, hand over mouth in perhaps the photo’s most recognizable gesture.
Contrast that with an image from the early Trump days: It shows Trump on his first weekend in office, calling Putin on the phone, surrounded by five burly advisers, all of them men.
The truth is, there were only two women visible in the Obama picture. In Trump’s Oval Office, in the room where it happens, there were none.
So when Sebastian Gorka says, “the alpha males are back,” pay attention. He’s not wrong.
Susan Glasser is POLITICO’s chief international affairs columnist and host of its new weekly podcast, The Global Politico.
Claude Moraes, British MEP and chair of the Liberty, Justice and Home Affairs Committee in the European Parliament, has advised the U.K. government against using its expertise in intelligence and security as bargaining chips in Brexit negotiations.
“[Security] is an area of strength for the U.K., but it should not be overstated in the negotiations, because we would be understating the contributions of other countries and many of these things can be mutually beneficial,” Labour MEP Moraes told the Guardian in an interview on Monday.
In her Lancaster House speech last month, British Prime Minister Theresa May issued what many saw as a veiled threat to the EU, saying that a “punitive deal” would be “an act of calamitous self-harm for the countries of Europe.”
British will have to find new ways to allow its police to share intelligence with European counterparts, Moraes said, but warned that association agreements with agencies such as Europol, Europe’s police agency, “don’t just happen” and are “not equal to full membership.”
The U.K. is currently a member of Europol and has full access to the Schengen Information System (SIS) — which includes information on 35,000 criminal suspects and 88,000 missing people — under a special agreement. Europol chief Rob Wainright last year warned the U.K. that leaving Europe would make it harder for the country to protect itself against terrorism and other security threats.
“You can’t get into the situation where you threaten to withdraw intelligence assets that might be shared across the continent,” Moraes said. “You can’t just easily withdraw cooperation because something else has happened in the negotiations.”
Since the Brexit vote last year, Moraes has advised the EU’s Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier on a range of topics related to his committee, including judicial affairs, intelligence sharing and data privacy.
Between 100,000-200,000 Poles living in the U.K. may return to Poland as a result of Brexit and because of their homeland’s stronger economy, according to a Polish government official quoted by Reuters on Monday.
“The situation around Brexit combined with improvement in the socio-economic situation in Poland may mean that some Poles (an estimate of 100,000-200,000) presently living in Great Britain will decide to return,” a Development Ministry representative said in a reply to a parliamentary question.
According to official British data, close to a million Polish citizens were living in the U.K. as of 2015. Incidents of hate crimes against Poles rose in the wake of the Brexit referendum last year.
European Parliament President Antonio Tajani has called for the EU to set up refugee reception centers in Libya and to implement a “Marshall Plan” for Africa in order to curb migration to the bloc, Die Zeit reported Monday.
The Libyan centers should not become “concentration camps,” but should have adequate equipment to ensure refugees live in dignified conditions with access to sufficient medical care, Tajani said.
The Marshall Plan, inspired by U.S. financial support for the rebuilding of Western European countries after the end of World War II, should fund the launch of an education initiative, develop modern agriculture and set up joint ventures with two or more partners.
“We either act now or 20 million Africans will come to Europe in the coming years,” Tajani said.
U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May is preparing for the Scottish National Party (SNP) to demand a second independence referendum when Article 50 is triggered next month, the Times reported Monday.
The news triggered the British pound to fall by 0.6 percent, according to Bloomberg.
First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon is likely to announce the demand for the referendum at an SNP conference March 17, around the time May is expected to trigger U.K. exit negotiations with the EU.
The majority of Scots voted to stay in the EU in the Brexit referendum last year.
According to the Times, May is willing to allow the referendum on the condition it takes place after Brexit negotiations are completed.
In the 2014 independence referendum, around 55 percent of Scots voted to remain in the U.K.
May has earlier rebuffed demands for a second referendum. “In June last year, when the U.K. as a whole was asked if we should leave or remain in the European Union, every voter had an equal say and the collective answer was final,” May wrote in Holyrood, a Scottish magazine.
Some 28 percent of EU citizens who have applied for permanent residency in the U.K. since Brexit had their applications rejected or declared invalid, the Guardian reported Monday.
In the last half of 2016, more than 12,800 EU citizens had their permanent residency requests rejected and a further 5,500 were declared invalid, analysis by the Liberal Democrats found. However, the Home Office said “applications can be rejected for a whole range of administrative reasons including where an application form has not being signed or failure to pay a fee.”
To qualify for U.K. residency, European Union citizens must live in Britain for at least five years.
A Home Office spokesperson said in a statement: “It would be wrong to draw conclusions about refusal rates from these [Guardian] figures as they include applications that were invalid. Refusal rates have not changed over the last year.
“European citizens resident in the U.K. make a vital contribution both to our economy and our society. That’s why we will be making securing their status, as well as that of British nationals in the EU, a priority as soon as we trigger Article 50 and the negotiations begin.”
The spokesperson added that European Economic Area nationals “are not required to apply to the Home Office for documentation confirming their status or their right to be here and these rights remain unchanged while we are a member of the European Union.”
The report comes as the Telegraph revealed British Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to announce that EU citizens who move to the U.K. after Article 50 divorce proceedings are triggered will not have the right to stay in the U.K. permanently.
Those who come to Britain after Brexit negotiations formally begin, expected around March 15, may require entry visas and have access to benefits restricted, the Telegraph reported. EU citizens who currently reside in the U.K. will have their rights protected as long as the rights of British citizens in the EU are protected in kind.
The EU has been pushing for European citizens to move freely in the U.K. until the end of Brexit negotiations rather than the beginning, but British officials are worried of a potential surge in migrants until then, according to the report.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd said the U.K. “will be ending free movement as we know it.”
This article has been updated to include a statement from the Home Office.
Between 3,000 to 5,000 people gathered in Bucharest on Sunday to continue protesting Romania’s new Social Democrat government, Reuters reported Sunday.
Carrying “Resist” badges and calling for the government’s resignation, the protesters used blue and yellow paper lit up with mobile phones to form a giant European Union flag.
The protests started last month in response to a decree that decriminalized certain types of corruption, growing to become some of the biggest since the end of communism. The government has since rescinded the decree and called for a referendum on anti-corruption reforms, but some still want it to resign.
In an interview with POLITICO last week, Romanian Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu praised the protesters. “I want to look at the good part of what happened: The civic part of our society reacted on this topic. It’s a very good thing for the country,” he said.
“This is a plus for our society, a plus that in future we need to ensure we don’t lose, no matter the areas in which there will be some debate.”
 
Academy Awards host Jimmy Kimmel told a worldwide audience Sunday night he was awaiting President Donald Trump’s tweets in response to the Oscar ceremony — after calling the president racist in his opening monologue and implying that hundreds of countries “now hate us.”
The high-energy ceremony ended, oddly enough, with Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway reading the wrong film’s name for the winner for Best Picture. As the cast and crew of “La La Land” was basking in the glow of victory, the mistake was corrected and the award was then correctly presented to “Moonlight,” sparking a rapid-fire run of Twitter jokes about one of the president’s favorite phrases: “fake news.”
Kimmel had joked earlier: “We have no tolerance for fake news. Fake tans we love, but fake news?” It was a quip that he might well have regretted by the end of the night.
Early in the show, politics took center stage as Kimmel launched his monologue.
“The country is divided right now,” the late-night talk-show host said during his opening remarks on ABC’s telecast. The comedian went on to say that he was asked to “say something to unite us.”
“I can’t do that, there’s only one ‘Braveheart’ in this room, and he’s not going to unite us either,” Kimmel joked, as the camera turned to Mel Gibson.
“I’m not the man to unite this country,” Kimmel said, adding there were millions and millions of people watching the award show at the moment. He urged everyone watching to “have a positive considerate conversation not as liberals or conservatives but as Americans – if we all did that it would make America great again. It starts with us.”
Looking down to the front row, Kimmel also pointed out the “highly overrated” Meryl Streep — a dig at Trump who tweeted insults about the actress following a Golden Globes speech where she highlighted the importance of journalism in a divisive political age.
Streep was nominated for her 20th Academy Award (she lost to Emma Stone of “La La Land”), and Kimmel jokingly cited some of her earlier “overrated” work such as “Sophie’s Choice” and “The Deer Hunter.”
“Nice dress, by the way,” Kimmel said to Streep, after asking her to stand up so everyone could give her a round of applause. “Is that an Ivanka?”
Taking a hit at #OscarsSoWhite, which trended last year amid complaints about the lack of diversity among actors and movies that were honored, Kimmel said: “I want to say thank you to President Trump. Remember last year when it seemed like the Oscars are racist?”
Kimmel also took a swipe at Friday’s press gaggle with White House press secretary Sean Spicer, at which outlets like POLITICO, the Los Angeles Times, the New York Times, and BuzzFeed News were not allowed to participate.
While introducing Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs, Kimmel said she is “a rare president, a president who believes in both arts and sciences.”
During her speech, Boone Isaacs celebrated diversity in the arts that spans across borders.
“Tonight is proof, that art has no borders, that art doesn’t have a single language,” she said. “all creative artists around the world are connected by an unbreakable bond that is powerful and permanent.”
Politics also was sprinkled as a subtext into a number of the presentations and acceptance speeches. That was true all the way until the end, when Hollywood veterans Beatty and Dunaway — marking the 50th anniversary of “Bonnie and Clyde” — mistakenly presented the Oscar for the year’s best picture to “La La Land” instead of “Moonlight,” the actual winner. The mistake was caught as the producers of “La La Land” gave their speeches.
Sometimes politics moved directly to the forefront.
Iranian director Asghar Farhadi, whose film “The Salesman” won in the Best Foreign Language Film category, had previously announced he planned boycot the ceremony. Farhadi’s stand was due to Trump’s travel ban that limited those from seven Muslim-majority countries, including Iran, from coming to the U.S. The ban is currently not in place, and the Trump administration has said it is working on a replacement.
“I’m sorry I’m not with you tonight, my absence is out of respect for the people of my country,” Farhadi said in a statement read at the ceremony. “Dividing the world into the ‘us’ and ‘our enemies’ category, creates fear.”
n his statement, Farhadi also said that directors have a chance to “create empathy between us and others, and empathy that we need today.”
Actor Dev Patel then introduced Sting, who sang an original song created for a film about American journalist James Foley, who was beheaded in 2014 by ISIS. Patel said it is “a time where journalists around the world are under attack.”
At the end of Sting’s performance, a quote from Foley was pictured on stage: “If I don’t have the moral courage to challenge authority. … we don’t have journalism.”
Later, Mexican actor Gael Garcia Bernal made a statement against Trump’s proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.
“As a Mexican, as a Latin American, as a migrant worker, and as a human being, I’m against any form of wall that wants to separate us.”
David Cohen contributed to this report.
PARIS — Emmanuel Macron is betting his presidential campaign on the big paradox of French political life. Voters want radical change — but they also want candidates to put forward realistic, bordering on safe, platforms.
Macron, the 39-year old former economy minister who’s currently running second in the polls without any support from the mainstream political parties, is now setting out the contours of a comprehensive program, adding specifics and costs to what were scattered proposals. His campaign gave a small group of reporters a briefing and policy document last week and the candidate himself laid out his plans in a major newspaper interview.
The long-promised platform tries to strike the right balance between reform and realism. Call it radically moderate — or moderately radical.
The former economy minister in François Hollande’s lame-duck government is looking to overcome the perception that his unexpected rise in the polls was built on being all things to many people, or as one of his former cabinet colleagues put it, “the French Bill Clinton, 25 years later.” What looked to be his strength has come to seem like a possible liability, as Macron’s rivals have repeatedly hit at his lack of a firm platform.
Centrist candidates have always failed in French presidential elections, and Macron’s policies are intended to address that natural mistrust of centrist politicians. On the crucial questions of economic reform, how large to keep the French state and how free to make its labor markets the Macron platform looks soft on the outside but could prove hard on the inside. The candidate isn’t advocating “Revolution” — the title of his latest book — but he is still paving the way for a major liberalization of the French economy.
His economic plan, which Macron set out in most detail in an interview with the business newspaper Les Echos last week, calls for a €50 billion public investment push, while proposing serious spending cuts and a general tax system overhaul that would favor both lower-income households and investors. Macron also wants to keep liberalizing the labor market, going further than what President Hollande found so difficult to get through parliament last year, even in a limited version.
The most striking thing about Macron’s program — contrary to all of his competitors in the race — may well be its pledge to abide strictly by the EU rule limiting public deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product.
The only candidate in the race to get cheers for Europe at his campaign rallies, Macron appears to think his calls for a renewal of the traditional European social-democratic model will help him reach the presidential election’s second round — where he remains favored to beat far-right leader Marine Le Pen.
The strategy isn’t without risk, as one of his aides acknowledged. “If you bet on reason in the age of rising populism, right and left, you’ll always find people to say you’re misunderstanding the times,” the aide said.
Macron’s dilemma is one that all his rivals are confronted with. The French, as in 2007 and 2012, are again asking for change — this time of policies after a nine-year economic slump, and of political personnel since they feel the current generation of politicians, whether on the left or right, has massively failed them. Yet at the same time, they’re wary of big political promises that are forgotten the morning after the election. So they want the candidates to put forward programs that can fly.
François Fillon, Macron’s rival from the mainstream right, had been hurt by the general skepticism about his ability to shrink the state payroll by 500,000 jobs, as he pledged in his successful campaign to get the conservative nomination in last year’s primary, before his campaign was badly hit by allegations of misuse of public funds.
On Macron’s left, both far-left Jean-Luc Mélenchon and the Socialist Party’s official candidate Benoît Hamon have put out platforms that most voters say do not pass basic reality checks — notably on France’s capacity to unleash public spending without suffering punishment from both financial markets and its European partners.
As for Le Pen, the mere prospect of the financial chaos she would unleash if elected president partly explains why a significant majority of French voters for now don’t want to see her in power.
Macron’s platform, however, still risks disappointing his supporters. Those who expected fast and bold reforms will see it as too moderate. Those who feared his free-market enthusiasm might carry him too far will worry about the potential for radical change that he seems to suggest.
For example, Macron decided not to touch any of the Socialist sacred cows that he long criticized and came to symbolize the outgoing Hollande presidency’s incapacity to enact real reforms.
He says he will not change the infamous 35-hour week, will not repeal the wealth tax created 35 years ago when the Socialists ruled France together with their communist allies, and he will not raise the official retirement age, currently set at 60, one of the EU’s lowest.
But below the surface, Macron is proposing changes that will make this apparent adherence to old dogma meaningless. Unions and businesses will be able to adapt the 35-hour rule to company needs. Under his proposal, the wealth tax will no longer be levied on capital holdings and only on real estate.
Jean Pisani-Ferry, the former head of government think tank France Stratégie whom Macron appointed a month ago as the czar of his economic program, denied the platform was moderate. “In all areas, you will see that those are very fundamental changes being initiated,” he said.
Trying to appear both bold and realistic, Macron has two constituencies in mind. The first is the French electorate. The second is Germany.
Macron wants to push eurozone integration further, notably with the creation of a common investment budget and a joint finance minister. But he also knows Germany will never agree to such financial transfers — if ever — without first making sure France is serious about economic reforms.
“We need to rebuild trust between France and Germany … If we don’t have a bold structural reforms program, the Germans will not support us,” he said in Les Echos interview.
Macron’s assertion that France committed “crimes against humanity” during the Algerian independence war didn’t go down well with French public opinion, capping a few bad weeks.
But the polls are looking good again. According to the daily IFOP survey, he is now at 23.5 percent, behind Le Pen’s 26 percent but three points ahead of Fillon (20.5 percent). And he is still seen trouncing Le Pen in the second round, by a 61.5-38.5 percent margin.
The Macron campaign is hoping the unveiling of his platform and other good breaks can build on this momentum shift. François Bayrou, the perennial centrist candidate and a former minister in several conservative governments, said he would not run this time and would support him. And the French financial prosecutor decided to transfer to a trio of investigative judges the probe into Fillon’s financial shenanigans, guaranteeing extensive media coverage of the story for a few more weeks.
Finally Jean-Louis Borloo, another centrist who was once Nicolas Sarkozy’s finance minister, also indicated he was leaning toward supporting Macron.
There again, Macron will have to square the support of such graybeards with his calls for a complete renewal of the political personnel.
Just another balancing act.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s nominee for Navy secretary, Philip Bilden, withdrew from consideration Sunday, becoming the second Pentagon pick unable to untangle his financial investments in the vetting process.
“Mr. Philip Bilden has informed me that he has come to the difficult decision to withdraw from consideration to be secretary of the Navy,” Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said in a statement. “This was a personal decision driven by privacy concerns and significant challenges he faced in separating himself from his business interests.”
Mattis added that he would make a recommendation to the White House for a new nominee “in the coming days.”
Bilden, who built his career in Hong Kong with the investment firm HarbourVest, was a surprise pick for the Navy post but had been Mattis’ preferred candidate.
Yet like billionaire investment banker Vincent Viola, who withdrew his nomination to be secretary of the Army earlier this month, Bilden ran into too many challenges during a review by the Office of Government Ethics to avoid potential conflicts of interest, according to sources familiar with the decision.
“I informed secretary of Defense Mattis with regret that I respectfully withdraw from consideration as Nominee for the 76th secretary of the Navy,” Bilden said in a statement Sunday.
“I fully support the President’s agenda and the Secretary’s leadership to modernize and rebuild our Navy and Marine Corps, and I will continue to support their efforts outside of the Department of the Navy,” Bilden continued. “However, after an extensive review process, I have determined that I will not be able to satisfy the Office of Government Ethics requirements without undue disruption and materially adverse divestment of my family’s private financial interests.”
Bilden’s withdrawal leaves Mattis with just Air Force Secretary nominee Heather Wilson, a former New Mexico Republican congresswoman, in line for a top political post at the Pentagon.
Her Senate confirmation hearing has not yet been scheduled, and her ethics agreement has not been finalized with the Office of Government Ethics.
Bilden served as an intelligence officer in the Army Reserve from 1986 to 1996 and is on the board of directors of the U.S. Naval Academy Foundation and the board of trustees of the Naval War College Foundation.
He moved to Hong Kong in 1996 to launch HarbourVest’s Asian subsidiary and recently retired from the firm, according to a White House biography released when he was nominated.
Last week White House press secretary Sean Spicer denied a report that Bilden could be withdrawing. “Just spoke with him and he is 100% commited (sic) to being the next SECNAV pending Senate confirm,” Spicer tweeted.
Spicer’s earlier denial came the same week that National Security Adviser Michael Flynn resigned from his post, and retired Vice Adm. Robert Harward declined to take the job. That ultimately went to Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster. Trump’s first pick for Labor Secretary, Andrew Puzder, also withdrew that same week.
Shane Goldmacher contributed to this report.
The European Commission and NATO urged the president of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Gjorge Ivanov, Sunday to abide by the country’s constitution and allow the formation of an opposition-led government, as the tiny Balkan country faced a crucial test of democratic norms.
Ivanov’s party, VMRO-DPMNE, has controlled the government since 2006 and has largely dominated the country’s politics since 1990. But while the center-right VMRO-DPMNE finished first in parliamentary elections in December, winning 51 seats, it failed to form a government, which requires a coalition of at least 61 MPs.
The Social Democratic Union of Macedonia (SDSM), which finished second in the elections with 49 seats, says it has secured a coalition and is demanding a mandate from Ivanov to form a government and install the party’s leader, Zoran Zaev, as prime minister.
Zaev said he had clinched the needed votes by forging a deal with the country’s largest Albanian party, the Democratic Union for Integration (DUI), and smaller Albanian parties.
“After nearly 11 years of living under a regime, we have the chance to form a new democratic government of Macedonia,” Zaev said in a statement, according to the Macedonian Information Agency, the official news service. Ivanvov has said he would give a mandate to form a government to a coalition with 61 votes, provided it would not “violate the unitary character of Macedonia.”
Zaev’s deal apparently includes support for a law that would give Albanian status as an official language, a move that could give Ivanov a basis for trying to block the new government.
In what appeared to be a last-ditch power play, Nikola Gruevski, the leader of VMRO-DPMNE, issued a statement late Sunday night offering to back a Zaev-led government, but only if Zaev abandoned the language law and other proposals Gruevski insisted would splinter the country along ethnic lines.
“If Zaev insists so badly to be prime minister, we will let him implement his program so long as he doesn’t attack the state and national interests,” Gruevski said, according to the MIA news service.
In an angry statement that bordered on a rant, Gruevski offered to be “arrested, imprisoned, harassed,” if needed to protect the country, and alleged that foreign meddlers including an unnamed foreign ambassador and George Soros, the billionaire civil-society activist, were trying to weaken Macedonia and have Zaev “enthroned” as prime minister.
In a statement on Sunday, Johannes Hahn, the European commissioner for neighborhood policy and enlargement negotiations, urged Ivanov to allow the formation of the SDSM-led government.
“As enough signatures of MPs have been collected,” Hahn said, “We now expect the president to give the mandate to form the next government to the candidate from the parties which have the majority in the assembly, in line with the constitution.”
In a pointed warning, Hahn continued, “Change in democratic societies is natural and should be embraced, when it is a result of credible elections. Accepting and respecting the election result and the right of leaders to try to form a government is a sign of a mature democracy. Obstructing and undermining such efforts has no place in a democratic process.”
He added, “We call on all relevant actors, including the president and the parliament, to act fully in line with the constitution’s letter and spirit and in a responsible manner, to enable a swift formation of a government that will address overdue reforms.”
In a statement, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg noted that the December parliamentary elections were “well-administered” and also called for Ivanov to let the process move forward.
“Following one attempt to form a government, it has been announced that, in line with the requirement specified by the president, enough MPs’ signatures have now been collected,” Stoltenberg said. “I look to the authorities in Skopje to fulfill the next step in the democratic process. I call on all parties to exercise restraint in statements and actions, and take decisions for the benefit of all citizens.”
President Donald Trump couldn’t hold back anymore.
After a weekend of thorny questions and barbed Democratic criticism surrounding ties between his campaign and Moscow, Trump took to his favorite platform Sunday to fight back.
“Russia talk is FAKE NEWS put out by the Dems, and played up by the media, in order to mask the big election defeat and the illegal leaks!” the president tweeted.
The tweet marked a departure in tone from the Democratic trolling he had done just a day earlier, mocking the opposing party’s newly elected chairman and attempting to sow discord by speculating that the Democratic National Committee had rigged the election against Bernie Sanders’ preferred candidate.
The White House, however, would have been hard-pressed not to weigh in on the subject of Trump associates’ contacts with Russia. Republicans on Sunday faced endless questions about the ongoing investigation into Russia’s role in the presidential election — especially what role, if any, Attorney General Jeff Sessions should play in overseeing it.
In the wake of allegations that associates of President Donald Trump’s campaign were in contact with Russian officials prior to the election, emboldened Democrats increased their calls this weekend for an independent prosecutor to take on the case, arguing that Sessions’ role as a Trump campaign surrogate renders him incapable of handling the case impartially.
Even a vigorous Trump supporter, Republican Congressman Darrell Issa of California, joined the drumbeat Friday. “You’re right that you cannot have somebody — a friend of mine, Jeff Sessions — who was on the campaign and who is an appointee,” Issa told Bill Maher on HBO. “You’re going to need to use the special prosecutor’s statute.”
Issa’s break with the White House suggested the swirling questions surrounding Trump’s ties to Russia were beginning to singe Republican members of Congress. The former House Oversight chairman — famous for his dogged pursuit of the Obama White House — narrowly won reelection in 2016 with Trump atop the ticket and likely faces a competitive challenge in the midterm election.
He told POLITICO in an interview Saturday that his views about transparency and accountability under Trump are simply an extension of his career-long fight for those issues.
“My view is: It’s extremely important that Congress point the guns at the same direction that they were pointed,” said Issa. Under the Trump White House, Republicans must continue to “demand what we were demanding: transparency, accountability.”
“And this is the best time to show leadership … We need to seize the opportunity and really push hard to have access so that no sacred cows are protected,” he said. “For credibility, we have to hold this president to the level of transparency that the last president took every effort to thwart.”
Issa remained an outlier among Republicans, however, in his call for a special prosecutor. Responding to calls for an independent investigation into contacts between Trump associates and Russia, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes said Saturday that the House would not engage in a “witch hunt.”
“This is almost like McCarthyism revisited,” the California Republican told reporters at the California GOP’s spring convention in Sacramento. “We’re going to go on a witch hunt against, against innocent Americans … ?”
“At this point, there’s nothing there,” Nunes insisted. “Once we begin to look at all the evidence, and if we find any American that had any contact with Russian agents or anybody affiliated with the Russian government, then we’ll be glad to, at that point, you know, subpoena those people before the House and let the legislative branch do its oversight and then we would recommend it over to, you know, the appropriate people.”
Still, the topic dominated the Sunday morning news shows, with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and newly elected Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez each demanding an independent investigation without Sessions at the helm.
“What we need to be looking at is whether this election was rigged by Donald Trump and his buddy Vladimir Putin,” Perez said.
One day earlier, Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate committee investigating Trump’s ties to Russia, said he had “grave concerns” about the independence of the probe following a Washington Post report that Nunes and Senator Richard Burr, the panel’s Republican chairman, helped the White House knock down negative news stories.
Warner said he had called both Burr and CIA Director Mike Pompeo to express his concerns.
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a Trump ally whose name is frequently linked to a future role in the White House, was among the Republicans insisting there’s no need for a special prosecutor to investigate allegations about Trump’s relationship with Russia.
“The Justice Department over the course of time has shown itself, with the professionals that are there, to have the ability to investigate these type of things,” Christie told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.” “This is whether you’re a Republican or a Democrat, we’ve seen it happen on both sides, when a special prosecutor gets involved, the thing gets completely out of control. And I think that doesn’t serve anybody’s purposes.”
The attorney general’s former Senate colleague, Tom Cotton of Arkansas, said Sunday there is “no doubt” that the Senate’s investigation into Russia’s role in last year’s presidential election will be fair. And he insisted it’s far too early to demand that Sessions recuse himself from any investigation into the Russia issue.
“I think that’s way, way getting ahead of ourselves here, Chuck,” Cotton told NBC’s Chuck Todd on “Meet the Press. “There’s no allegations of any crime occurring. There’s not even indication that there’s criminal investigations under way by the FBI, as opposed to counterintelligence investigations, which the FBI conducts all the time as our main counterintelligence bureau. If we get down that road, that’s a decision that Attorney General Sessions can make at the time.”
Left-wing rebels who quit Italy’s ruling party over clashes with former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi have formed a new political party — the Progressive and Democratic Movement (DP).
Uniting left-leaning defectors from the ruling Democratic Party (PD) and part of the Sinistra Italiana (the Italian Left), the DP was founded on Saturday, according to Agence France-Presse.
“We want to build an open movement … that is also the beginning of a center-left renewal,” it said in its founding manifesto.
It is headed by the ruling party’s former leader in parliament, Roberto Speranza, and Enrico Rossi, the head of the Tuscany region.
Former PD boss Pier Luigi Bersani and another former prime minister, Massimo D’Alema, are also among the supporters, according to the report.
The new party could possibly spoil the center-left party’s chances at the next elections, which have to take place by February next year, but which Renzi would like to bring forward to June or September.
Renzi resigned from his post as prime minister in December after losing a key constitutional referendum. He was replaced by Paolo Gentiloni, the foreign minister in his government.
NATIONAL HARBOR, U.S. — They should have known better. The college kids, crammed into the back-right corner of an overflow ballroom here at the Gaylord National Resort, should have recognized that the props being distributed to them were, in fact, miniature Russian flags. But as the president of the United States strode onto the stage at the Conservative Political Action Conference, they — and scores of other attendees nearby — whipped them proudly overhead. And why wouldn’t they? After all, the flags carried the ultimate seal of approval, with regal golden letters scrawled across their middle: TRUMP.
It was a prank — a wildly successful one — perpetrated by liberal troublemakers attempting to draw attention to Russia’s odd relationship with President Donald Trump and members of his campaign. Within moments, CPAC officials spotted the flags and deployed staff members to confiscate them from the confused youngsters. “It said ‘Trump’ on it, and it was red, white and blue,” Zachary Jenkins, a member of the College Republicans at Marshall University in West Virginia, told me afterward, a sheepish look on his face. “So I just assumed it was OK.”
It amounted to little more than an embarrassing bit of publicity. And yet the incident highlighted, somewhat hilariously, conservatism’s blind spot in the age of Trump. Jenkins and his friends likely would have realized the flags were foreign, and wouldn’t have waved them, had they not been branded with his name; likewise, conservatives would ordinarily oppose protectionist, cronyist, big-spending, debt-accumulating policies — if they weren’t signature stances of the new Republican president.
To spend three days at this year’s CPAC, the annual right-wing carnival of politics and culture, was to witness an ideology conforming to an individual rather than the other way around. The president’s counselor, Kellyanne Conway, set the tone Thursday morning when asked to assess Trump’s impact on the conservative movement. “Well, I think by tomorrow this will be TPAC,” she said. The moderator laughed and so did the audience members, but it wasn’t a joke: Anyone searching for a brand of conservatism independent of the new president would have walked away sorely disappointed.
After a three-day celebration of Trumpism, the announcement of the straw poll results on Saturday afternoon told the whole story. A full 86 percent of attendees approved of Trump’s job performance so far, compared with just 12 percent who disapproved. More consequentially, on the question of whether Trump is “realigning the conservative movement,” 80 percent agreed and only 15 percent disagreed. Both statistics were met with cheers inside the main ballroom.
“In many ways, Donald Trump is the conservative movement right now,” Jim McLaughlin, the Republican pollster who conducted the survey, told CPAC attendees. “And the conservative movement is Donald Trump.”
To some extent, everyone expected to see Trump remake the Republican Party in his image; he became its leader upon clinching the presidential nomination last July and solidified that status for at least four years on November 8. But Trump was not supposed to bend conservatism to his will — at least, not this quickly. Certainly, he has thrilled the GOP grassroots with certain decisions, such as signing executive orders aimed at deregulation, beginning a crackdown on illegal immigration and nominating an originalist in Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. But he has also done other things — facilitating a deal with Carrier in Indiana that smacked of crony capitalism; bullying private corporations and individual citizens; declaring reporters the enemy of the American public; asserting a moral equivalence between the U.S. government and Vladimir Putin’s – that would typically put any politician in the crosshairs of the right.
Trump, however, has encountered scant dissent from his party’s ideological base. So he came to CPAC not to pay homage to the traditions of conservatism, but to bask in the supremacy of his own movement, one that he and his allies believe will supplant the outdated orthodoxies peddled for decades by the very people who greeted him like a conquering hero on Friday morning.
In his meandering 48-minute speech, Trump did not once use the words “liberty” or “constitution.” He did not invoke the name of Ronald Reagan, the last Republican president to address CPAC during his first year in office, and to whom he was incessantly compared throughout the week. He made no reference to “government,” in terms of keeping it small, limited or otherwise. And the only time he uttered the word “conservative” was in reference to his triumph at the ballot box. “Our victory was a victory … for conservative values,” Trump declared.
Then, in a stroke of strategic and rhetorical genius, the president conflated those “conservative values” with his own. “The core conviction of our movement,” Trump told his standing-room-only audience, “is that we are a nation that will put its own citizens first.” The crowd ate it up.
To Trump — and to his chief strategist, Steve Bannon, who appeared on a Thursday panel alongside chief of staff Reince Priebus — this means pursuing an agenda of “economic nationalism” that, among other things, restricts trade, subsidizes certain domestic businesses and borrows and spends large sums of money to spur job growth and wealth creation. None of this is remotely compatible with the modern conservative movement, which has been defined to a large extent by its adherence to the principles of free trade, free markets and fiscal restraint.
It wasn’t just the ubiquitous deification of Trump that was so jarring. It was the degree to which his worldview was accepted, championed and cheered by conservative speakers and attendees with no obvious connection to the new president. Consistently, anti-trade rhetoric drew the loudest ovations, especially when packaged as part of a broader assault on “globalism,” a particular hobbyhorse of Bannon and the Breitbart crew.
Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union, CPAC’s governing body, swore he wasn’t worried about the appearance of Trumpism subjugating the traditional right. “Trump voices that are added to CPAC are wonderful because it will help us win,” he told me. “We have to have more people. We can be a very pristine conservative movement — and be very small and make no difference.”
The push for intellectual and ideological diversity is commendable, save for the inconvenient reality that it was nowhere to be found. Over three days of speeches and panels and seminars, nary a negative word was directed at the president or his policies. And with the exception of a few collegiates handing out “free market” buttons, there was no pushback on a nationalist platform that not long ago wouldn’t have been welcome at this very gathering.
Only a year ago, CPAC attendees — the majority of whom supported either Ted Cruz or Marco Rubio — threatened a mass boycott of Trump’s scheduled speech. He ultimately cancelled his appearance, and conservatives in attendance roared with approval whenever one of the speakers lambasted the man who, to their great dismay, had emerged as the Republican presidential front-runner.
“Last year we were talking about a walkout if Trump showed up, and this year it’s all Trump all the time. It has completely changed,” said Dominic Moore, a University of North Carolina student who attended CPAC for the first time in 2016 and backed Rubio in the GOP primary. “Last year the Make America Great Again hats were few and far between. Now they’re everywhere. Last year the speakers were attacking him and now everyone’s done a full 180. They’re all on the bandwagon. Everything has changed.”
Few seem to think that’s a bad thing. In conversations with dozens of attendees, only a handful expressed qualms at Trump’s takeover of CPAC — and most of those were conservative political consultants who asked not to be quoted for fear of reprisals from Republicans they do business with. I met several first-time attendees, such as Ohio University student Johnny Paszke, who came explicitly to show their support for Trump — and dismissed questions about the president’s ideological mooring. “I think he is a fairly liberal conservative,” Paszke told me with a shrug. “That’s OK.” (When I asked Paszke what it means to be a fairly liberal conservative, he said Trump will never be as far-right as Cruz, who appeared at the conference Thursday.)
And then there was Margaret Howell. When Trump took the stage Friday morning, I glanced over and noticed her, standing several feet away inside the media pen, with tears of joy running down her cheek. “It was overwhelming,” she told me afterward. “He really inspires people.” It turns out Howell works for Right Side Broadcasting, the pro-Trump livestreaming network, and was formerly a reporter for InfoWars and the Kremlin-backed RT television network. She, too, was a first-time attendee. “I was never inspired to come to CPAC prior to Donald Trump,” she confessed. “Why would I be?”
It’s a fair question. For most of its history, CPAC, which debuted in 1973, promoted an intellectually exclusive and ideologically insular worldview known as movement conservatism. Even as it gradually expanded its philosophical tent — allowing pro-LGBT groups; inviting an atheist speaker; absorbing the young, libertarian supporters of Ron and Rand Paul — the gathering still reflected a set of political sensibilities that were broadly within the Republican mainstream. CPAC organizers kept their distance from the likes of Bannon and his Breitbart.com, which attacked Republicans on the center-right and preached a provocative populism that many in the movement considered a threat.
That seemed a distant memory this week. Even before the conference convened, Schlapp was under fire for inviting Milo Yiannopoulos, the alt-right cage-rattler with no serious claim to conservatism. He was ultimately disinvited after video surfaced of him making approving remarks about pedophilia, but the conference nonetheless had a decidedly unfamiliar feel. Bannon — who made a point of caustically thanking Schlapp for finally inviting him to CPAC — was prominently featured and made headlines by promoting his vision for economic nationalism and the “deconstruction of the administrative state.” Breitbart was a sponsor, its logo slapped conspicuously across the main stage. And the upstart news outlet’s brand of conservatism drove the proceedings in dominant fashion, dictating everything from the panel topics to the headline speakers. (Notably, while Trump and his administration allies were given plum slots, there were no speeches from longtime CPAC favorites such as Paul Ryan, Marco Rubio and Rand Paul.)
It all contributed to the distinct and growing impression that conservatism, rather than expanding to make room for Trumpism, is being swallowed up by it altogether.
“Politics is an evolving process. You cannot simply say, ‘I’m a Reagan Republican and I will never move from my positions,’” Luis Fortuno, the former Puerto Rico governor and an ACU board member, said when I asked about Trump’s influence on conservatism. “Conditions are different today than they were 25 years ago. And we must evolve.”
It’s one thing for a movement to organically evolve toward smarter, more advantageous policy positions; it’s quite another to surrender its ideological foundations in the face of political headwinds. This distinction is at the heart of Trump’s relationship with the right, as conservatives navigate the fine line between cooperation and capitulation.
“Overall, I’m keeping an optimistic outlook,” said Matt Batzel, executive director of American Majority, a grassroots group that ran activist training sessions at CPAC. “But we have to be vigilant. Everyone who’s part of the conservative movement has an obligation to speak out so that one person doesn’t fundamentally transform conservatism.”
This idea of keeping conservatism sovereign from Republicanism, to check its excesses from a place of principle, was of paramount importance to CPAC devotees in the aftermath of George W. Bush’s presidency. Schlapp, who served as White House political director — and who saw relatively little resistance on the right as Bush doubled the national debt and dramatically grew the federal government — knows better than anyone the danger of the conservative movement deferring to a Republican president.
“My guess is there will be some rocky moments,” he said of Trump’s alliance with the right. “My job as the head of a conservative organization is not to be his cheerleader. My job as the head of a conservative organization is to stand for our values.”
After CPAC 2017, however, it’s unclear whose values he’s referring to.
When I asked Jenkins, the flag-waving Marshall University student, whether he thought Trump is a conservative, he grinned. “I think Trump is redefining what it means to be a conservative.”
Iran’s former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Sunday sent a 3,500-word letter to Donald Trump, offering advice and striking a surprisingly conciliatory tone, given the recent tensions between Tehran and the new American leader.
Ahmadinejad, a hardliner who left office in 2013, praised Trump’s winning election camapign last year as having “truthfully described the U.S. political system and electoral structure as corrupt,” according to a copy of the letter published by Iranian media and reported on by the Associated Press.
The former Iranian leader gave the letter to the Swiss embassy in Tehran, which represent U.S. interests.
“Four years is a long period, but it ends quickly,” he wrote by way of advice. “The opportunity needs to be valued, and all its moments need to be used in the best way.”
In the letter, Ahmadinejad decried U.S. “dominance” over the United Nations, as well as American meddling in the world that has brought “insecurity, war, division, killing and (the) displacement of nations,” according to AP.
In the wake of Trump’s order to ban travel to the U.S. by citizens from seven majority-Muslim nations, including Iran, that was blocked by American courts, Ahmadinejad urged the new president to “value respect toward the diversity of nations and races.”
Ahmadinejad didn’t mention Iran’s nuclear program, which has been at the center of the country’s disputes with the U.S. this century.
ISTANBUL — As Turkey heads toward a constitutional referendum designed to grant its leader Recep Tayyip Erdoğan even greater powers, the polls predict a neck-and-neck race.
That doesn’t mean their chances are equal. While the April vote is likely to be free, whether it will be fair — given rising repression of political dissent and the ongoing state of emergency — is another question.
Take the case of İrfan Değirmenci, a well-known news anchor for Kanal D, who explained his opposition to the proposed changes in a series of tweets earlier this month. “No to the one who views scientists, artists, writers, cartoonists, students, workers, farmers, miners, journalists and all who do not obey as the enemy,” he wrote.
He was promptly fired.
Değirmenci’s dismissal has heightened fears among No campaigners that those who oppose the new constitution will be subject to threats and intimidation ahead of the referendum on April 16.
“A lot of people are risking their careers and their future by openly and publicly campaigning for No,” said İlhan Tanir, a Turkish columnist and analyst based in Washington. “There is nothing fair about this.”
Government supporters face no such risk: While Kanal D claimed Değirmenci had been let go for violating the media group’s neutrality rule, Yes supporters have been free to air their views in the pages of Hürriyet, which belongs to the same group.
Hurriyet itself — a newspaper that positions itself as neutral — has muted critical voices: Its editors last week scrapped an interview with Orhan Pamuk, in which the Nobel Prize-winning Turkish novelist explained his reasons for voting No.
As state pressure on critical outlets mounts, the No camp fears its voice will be drowned out once Erdoğan and his allies begin to campaign in earnest. Speaking to journalists in Ankara, Kemal Kiliçdaroğlu, the leader of the largest opposition party CHP, estimated that the government’s influence extended to 90 percent of the Turkish media.
“This is definitely not going to be a fair referendum. We know that the pro-Erdoğan media will have a broadcasting policy that completely ignores the opposition,” Kiliçdaroğlu said. “It will be presented as if we are running against the state.”
Turkey’s media landscape is heavily skewed in the government’s favor. Most critical news organizations have been shut down, leaving only a handful of small to medium-sized outlets; the rest are largely owned by government-friendly conglomerates.
“It is very difficult to find any family of a Turkish media tycoon in which President Erdoğan has not attended a wedding or served as a marriage witness,” the press freedom advocacy group Reporters Without Borders noted last year.
Media pluralism was further diminished in the aftermath of last summer’s failed coup. As the government purged the state and civil society — first of supposed coup supporters and later of critics of all stripes — hundreds of journalists disappeared behind bars. More than 150 media outlets were shuttered.
Earlier this month, Erdoğan issued a decree stripping the Supreme Election Board of its power to fine broadcasters who do not give equal airtime to different parties and views ahead of elections. Criticizing the order, Kiliçdaroğlu accused the government of tipping the scales further in their favor: “Only their voices will be heard until the referendum.”
Emine Nur Günay, a member of parliament for Erdoğan’s governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) and a representative at the Council of Europe, described the opposition’s fears as unfounded. “Whenever I turn on the TV or look at the program, there are so many opposition MPs on television,” she said.
Outside the world of newspapers and television, the space for debate appears to be shrinking as well. Cases of outspoken government opponents being attacked or arrested — or both — are mounting. In Ankara, an assailant fired shots at an outspoken union head shortly after he had publicly called on citizens to vote No last weekend. In the western province of Izmir, two women were physically attacked and accused of “undermining the state” while handing out No flyers, Turkish media reported.
Politicians are not immune. When prominent nationalist politician Meral Akşener addressed a No rally in a hotel earlier this month, the electricity was unexpectedly cut, forcing her to hold the meeting in darkness. She believed the power cut was deliberate; the hotel’s owners are considered close to Erdoğan.
Meanwhile, Sera Kadigil, an outspoken No campaigner and CHP MP, was detained for four “blasphemous” tweets from 2010. A dozen MPs of the pro-Kurdish opposition party HDP — firmly opposed to the president — already languish in prison, charged with terror offenses.
Turkey has enjoyed 15 years of free elections under AKP rule, but the Council of Europe has expressed “serious doubt” about the upcoming referendum vote’s fairness amid rising repression.
The concern appears to be shared by Turkey’s European partners. When German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited Ankara earlier this month, she suggested that observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe should monitor the referendum, “so that what the people want is guaranteed.”
The Council of Europe’s human rights commissioner Nils Muiznieks noted last week that the political atmosphere had significantly deteriorated during the continuing state of emergency. “Legitimate dissent and criticism of government policy are vilified and repressed,” he said, criticizing Turkey’s overly broad terror laws in particular.
Labeling opponents as terror supporters is a tried-and-tested method of the Turkish government. In 2015, in the run-up to parliamentary elections, Erdoğan painted the HDP as such, giving voters a stark choice — me or the terrorists. It worked. The HDP lost several percentage points from the previous poll and Erdoğan’s AKP won a majority of seats in the parliament.
The rhetoric is eerily similar this time around. In a recent speech, Erdoğan compared No voters to the militant Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), which has waged a three-decade insurgency against the Turkish state from their base in northern Iraq’s Qandil mountains.
“Who says no? The PKK says no. Who says no? Qandil says no. Who says no? Those who want to divide this country say no. Those who are against our flag say no,” Erdoğan said.
His prime minister, Binali Yildirim, has claimed that terror groups support the No vote.
A popular picture making the rounds on Turkish social media neatly summarizes the president’s argument: Under the heading “the choice is yours,” the image shows Erdoğan and his allies, along with a stock image of a suffering child, under the word “yes” — contrasted with a photo montage of opposition leaders, the supposed coup mastermind Fethullah Gülen, ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and an American flag under the word “no”.
Günay, the AKP parliamentarian, insisted the government’s referendum campaign would have none of the polarizing rhetoric that marked the previous elections. The ruling party’s approach would be “friendly and inclusive.”
At its official campaign launch this weekend, the AKP did opt for a softer approach, ditching the divisive rhetoric. The party instead sought to promote a positive vision of stability and economic growth.
“This is not a presidential election, it will shape our future. So we will be there as citizens, not just as MPs from the AKP,” Günay said. “Some people may vote Yes, some people may vote No. The important thing is to be in touch with people and discuss.”
Still, the No camp fears it may have little opportunity to reach out to voters. “It will be free to say No in the referendum as well as Yes,” Hürriyet columnist Murat Yetkin noted last week. “But while there will be no ban on saying No during the campaign, getting that voice heard is another matter.”
Germany’s Social Democratic Party (SPD) is on par with the conservative Christian-Democrat (CDU) in a new poll, after a another survey put it ahead for the first time in ten years.
A survey from the Emnid Institute showed the SPD, which picked former European Parliament President Martin Schulz as its candidate for chancellor in the September 24 vote, would win 32 percent of the vote if elections were held today.
This is the same as Chancellor Angela Merkel’s CDU, according to the results published today in Der Spiegel.
A DeutschlandTrend poll published by broadcaster ARD on Friday, also found 32 percent supported SPD, but this was 1 percentage point ahead of the CDU.
Most respondents in the Emnid poll also do not expect Schulz to replace Merkel in the autumn: 50 percent doubt he can do it, while 36 percent are convinced.
In addition, the poll found 57 percent consider Schulz’s claim to work particularly for “hard-working people” to be “unbelievable,” while 36 percent thought it was “credible.”
A U.S. billionaire who co-owns right-wing Breitbart News and helped bankroll Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, also played a key role in the Brexit campaign, according to the Observer.
Robert Mercer is a long-time friend of former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, the paper said. During the referendum campaign, he offered the Leave campaign free services from his business Cambridge Analytica, to sway swing voters on social media through targeted ads.
Cambridge Analytica, an offshoot of British company SCL Group, claims to offer “cutting-edge data enhancement and audience segmentation techniques” to profile and target audiences, such as voters.
The Trump campaign paid the firm more than $6 million for the company’s services. The Leave campaign did not file a donation from the company; all gifts over £7,500 must be declared by law to the electoral commission.
Leave.eu filed documents saying the company was a “strategic partner,” but in December, when questioned by the paper, said that it was untrue the company had worked on the Leave campaign. The firm declined to comment a second time on whether it had donated services.
Cambridge Analytica was “happy to help … because Nigel is a good friend of the Mercers,” communications director of Leave.eu, Andy Wigmore, told the Observer.
He said Mercer suggested the company “may be useful” to the campaign.
“What they were trying to do in the U.S. and what we were trying to do had massive parallels. We shared a lot of information,” he added.
Two weeks ago, Leave.eu founder Arron Banks said in a series of tweets that the campaign’s pollster Gerry Gunster and Cambridge Analytica with “world class” artificial intelligence had helped them gain “unprecedented levels of engagement”. “AI won it for Leave,” he said.
The Trump administration is considering pulling the United States out of the United Nations Human Rights Council, a body that has been accused of being biased against Israel and criticized for including abusive governments, according to two sources in regular contact with former and current U.S. officials.
No immediate withdrawal is expected ahead of the council’s next session, which starts Monday, but discussion of abandoning the council is likely to alarm international activists already worried that the United States will take a lower profile on global human rights issues under President Donald Trump.
A final decision on membership in the council would likely involve Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, as well as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, and of course the president himself.
A former State Department official briefed on the discussions said while the council’s targeting of Israel is likely part of the debate, there also are questions about its roster of members and doubts about its usefulness overall.
Countries known for human rights abuses, such as China and Saudi Arabia, have managed to snag seats on the 47-member council.
“There’s been a series of requests coming from the secretary of state’s office that suggests that he is questioning the value of the U.S. belonging to the Human Rights Council,” the former official said.
In a recent meeting with mid-level State Department officials, Tillerson expressed skepticism about the council, which has a number of powers, including the ability to establish panels that probe alleged human rights abuses.
A spokesman for Haley did not immediately respond to a request for comment Saturday. White House press aides also did not immediately offer comment.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner did not address whether U.S. membership on the council was being reconsidered, but said, “Our delegation will be fully involved in the work of the HRC session which starts Monday.”
The Human Rights Council was established in 2006. It replaced the U.N. Human Rights Commission, which had faced severe criticism because countries with poor rights records became members and prevented it from carrying out its mission to the fullest.
The Bush administration refused to join the new council, questioning whether it would be much different. But under President Barack Obama, the U.S. felt it was more useful to be part of the council and try to influence it from the inside, including by speaking out in support of Israel.
Still, supporters of Israel have accused the council of being overly focused on the Jewish-majority state, by pushing critical resolutions, for example.
Israel had a difficult relationship with the Obama administration, one that hit a new low late last year after Obama decided not to veto a U.N. Security Council resolution criticizing Israeli settlement construction.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has made it clear he looks forward to working with Trump, while Haley also has been very public about America’s plans to shield Israel from critics at the United Nations.
The Human Rights Council’s membership is laced with political symbolism. Last year, Russia lost its seat on the body after a vote by the U.N. General Assembly, apparently due to international fury over Moscow’s role in the Syrian conflict.
President Donald Trump announced Saturday that he will not attend the annual White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in Washington, D.C., capping a week in which he condemned the media and sought to snuff out leaks from within his own White House.
The move to withdraw from the dinner, which in the past has been criticized for its sometimes awkward schmoozing between the press and the administration it covers, was in line with the president’s increasingly adversarial relationship with the media, and came just a day after the White House froze out a number of news organizations from a briefing with the press secretary.
The announcement, which came in Trump’s preferred method of communication — a tweet — said that Trump would pass on the April dinner, which benefits a journalism scholarship and recognizes reporters for their coverage of the president and is traditionally attended by major media outlets, celebrity guests and the president.
His refusal to attend comes amid reports that media outlets like CNN and MSNBC have been considering skipping the event at the Washington Hilton.
“I will not be attending the White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening,” Trump tweeted.
Trump’s move comes in the heat of his ongoing battle with the media, which he has labeled the opposition party and “fake news.”
The dinner will still go on even without the president, according to the White House Correspondents Association.
When retailers Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus announced earlier this month that they’d no longer carry Ivanka Trump’s fashion line, the decision provoked outrage at the White House, infuriating the designer’s Twitter-happy father and inspiring an ethics breach from one of his top advisers. But the news wasn’t a surprise to readers of Cosmopolitan: Back in October, Cosmo writer Michelle Ruiz profiled the women behind the boycott of Ivanka Trump’s products. And when the first daughter posted an uncaptioned photo of herself posing in a silvery Carolina Herrera gown alongside her tuxedo-clad husband, one day after her father signed his controversial immigration order, Harper’s Bazaar jumped to cover the fallout, noting, “While activists and influencers took to social media to express their outrage over Trump’s ban and show support for the afflicted refugees and immigrants, the first daughter used her public platform to show off her glamorous outfit.”
It was a long way from the happy tales of Ivanka, the “do-it-all mom … who never ceases to inspire us,” that appeared in publications like these early last year, and the year before that, and the year before that. Beautiful and polished, the head of her own fashion line and an advocate for her own personal brand of women’s workplace empowerment, Trump once seemed built in a lab to be covered by the high-gloss world of women’s fashion media, perfectly crafted to the specifications of editors looking for safe, easy and attractive content.
But that was before Ivanka became her father’s most powerful campaign surrogate and closest adviser, using her talents for public presentation time and again to smooth over criticisms that he was anti-women in both agenda and disposition. “My father is a feminist,” she told the Sunday Times in July. “He’s a big reason I am the women I am today.” She said her father was “not a groper” — a few months before the Access Hollywood tape revealed Donald Trump boasting about exactly that and before a dozen women came forward to accuse him of the same. Since then, like many publications who have long benefited from the Trump celebrity machine, women’s magazines have been trying to figure out just what to do with the glamorous first daughter.
High-minded political journalism and fashion coverage have existed side by side in glossy women’s magazines — titles from Cosmopolitan to Glamour to Vogue — for at least a half-century, but Ivanka Trump’s political ascendance has forced the usually parallel tracks of fashion and politics together like never before. And it’s left the genre, which has grown more political in recent years, taking stands on abortion and equal pay, questioning some of its long-held traditions. Is the gauzy, soft-hitting profile — those full-page spreads featuring high-powered, attractive women like Samantha Power or Michelle Obama in glamorous designer gowns—still ethical in the era of Trump? And is it possible even to cover the fashion of the first family without getting political?
“It was certainly much easier to cover Michelle Obama’s amazing gown on one page and then argue for abortion rights on the next page,” says Prachi Gupta, who reported for Cosmopolitan during the campaign and currently works for Jezebel. Now, she says, if you cover what Ivanka is wearing, “you are contributing to the normalization of a man embraced by white supremacists who wants to ban immigration from Muslim countries, who brags about sexually assaulting women, and all sorts of other things.”
* * *
The woman’s magazine has always been a political object. The first in the United States were founded in the pre-Civil War era as an expression of female empowerment, and some of the longest running, like Ladies’ Home Journal, Cosmopolitan and Good Housekeeping, date back to the late 1800s. One of the first, Godey’s Lady Book, founded in 1830, forbade explicitly controversial articles, but crusaded for women’s education and employment rights. Just as articles about fashion and domestic life changed depending on the generation, so did the political coverage: The magazines ran serious articles on politics in the Progressive Era, supported the war efforts that introduced many women to the world of work in the 1940s, and mirrored the cultural conservatism of the 1950s. Betty Friedan’s seminal 1963 work, The Feminine Mystique, which is broadly credited with kicking off the Second Wave feminist movement, was based in no small part on a critique of the male-run women’s magazines that pushed the image of the “happy housewife heroine” on its readers.
Women’s publications have been covering feminist issues in a serious way since at least 1976, when Cosmo, Glamour, Seventeen, Vogue and Essence all coordinated to publish features in favor of the Equal Rights Amendment. But even then, the political activity in the pages tended to be intermittent and overlooked. It’s only been in the new millennium, as feminism has become more mainstream, in part thanks to the rise of feminist alternative media like Sassy and Rookie, that women’s magazines have become more strident on issues like abortion rights and equal pay.
“People keep saying, ‘Oh, you’ve made the magazine much more political,’ but I feel that these are about lifestyle issues for women,” Joanna Coles, executive editor of Cosmopolitan, told Politico in 2014, after the magazine announced a new political push, #CosmoVotes, that included endorsing abortion rights candidates during the midterms. “The biggest single decision which will impact your life is when you have a child,” said Coles. “I want women to have control over that, not a bunch of old white guys sitting in D.C.” Amy Odell, the website’s editor, added. “[P]eople say that’s a liberal thing, but in our minds it’s not about liberal or conservative, it’s about women having rights.”
The coverage did tend to skew liberal. Not only did the platform echo a progressive one, the publications covered plenty of Democratic women, from Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton to Huma Abedin and Wendy Davis — complete with glossy photo-spreads of these power players dressed in couture and posing at the Texas state Capitol, at the White House, at the State Department, in campaign headquarters. The magazines featured Republican women on occasion too — Sarah Palin was photographed in her snowy backyard for Vogue in 2007 — although the coverage was less frequent, perhaps in part because there were fewer high-profile GOP women to cover in the first place.
Even as these magazines embraced politics as well as fashion and celebrity, they were able to cover the two worlds without much conflict. Ivanka Trump, for example, existed solidly as a fashion icon. She first debuted on the cover of Seventeen magazine in 1997, alongside a story about the relationships between celebrity mothers and daughters, and has been a favorite of the genre since, appearing on the cover of Harper’s Bazaar in 2007, Redbook in 2013 and Shape in 2014. In the first half of 2015 alone — all before her father formally announced his candidacy for president — she was interviewed about “her definition of success” by Glamour, profiled as a paragon of the modern millennial in Vogue, gave Allure an exclusive on her Met Gala prep and offered recommendations for her favorite restaurants and businesses in New York, also to Vogue. The coverage even continued into 2016, as her father’s campaign unfolded, with largely favorable profiles in publications like Harper’s Bazaar and Town and Country.
The articles weren’t exactly hard-hitting. They described Ivanka’s “perfect eyebrow,” her “hottie husband,” her “stylish and sexy” apartment. She is “standing like … a magnificent statue, in a Carolina Herrera gown, with a baby on one shoulder and a cell phone in the other.” Her voice is “soft, mellifluous.” She “doesn’t bark. She coos.” In one photo, Ivanka sits dressed in tweed at a gleaming piano and leans over the toddler playing on a miniature piano at her feet. In another, she relaxes in front of a stack of what appears to be crisp blueprints, her cobalt stilettos propped up on the glossy table. And then there’s the photo shoot, timed to the release of her new jewelry line, that has her oiled and clad in bathing suits and gowns and diamonds while she alternately blasts rubble and lounges on it at a construction site. This is “wonder woman,” or “superwoman,” these profiles all seem to say; actually, two literally say that.
But these days, this is not all that women’s magazines have to say about Ivanka Trump, whose spokespeople declined to comment for this article. 2016 was the year Ivanka discovered that the genre couldn’t be relied upon to provide uniformly flattering coverage. As a powerful surrogate for her father’s campaign, Trump saw her public profile change — and the coverage of her, both throughout the presidential race and in the first few weeks of the new administration, has reflected that shift.
It was a Cosmopolitan interview that marked the inflection point. Last September, when then-Cosmo reporter Prachi Gupta landed an opportunity to question the eldest Trump daughter on the child care and maternity leave plan she spearheaded for her father, she pressed Trump hard on the details, asking why the policy didn’t address fathers in same-sex relationships and inquiring about how it fit her father’s previous statements calling pregnancy a liability in the workplace. Trump didn’t expect that line of questioning, nor did she like it. “I think that you have a lot of negativity in these questions, and I think my father has put forth a very comprehensive and really revolutionary plan to deal with a lot of issues,” Trump said, before cutting the interview short. The contentious exchange made headlines (from “Ivanka Trump gets testy in Cosmo interview” to “Where Ivanka’s Cosmo interview went off the rails”), partially because few people expected tough questions from the kind of magazine often stereotyped for publishing features like “Seven Ways to Turn on Your Man (and You)” and “These Disney-Inspired Dresses Are Almost too Beautiful for Words.”
It’s really not that complicated, says Lori Fradkin, executive editor of Cosmpolitan.com, which has more recently published headlines such as “14 Biggest Political Controversies Involving Ivanka Trump” and “This Photo Of Ivanka Trump In The Oval Office Is Proving Controversial” alongside pictures of the first daughter’s inauguration outfits. Gupta simply did “what a good journalist should do — she asked specific questions about the policy Ivanka was representing and followed up when she didn’t get an answer.” Fradkin says the magazine’s mission remains the same as it has always been. “Politics is a core part of the content mix on Cosmopolitan.com, and the fact that Donald Trump is in the White House doesn’t change that,” she says.
Their approaches might vary, but most women’s magazines agree that one thing has changed: They cannot continue to cover Ivanka as if she is solely a fashion mogul, or even a glamorous nonpolitical member of the first family. “We’ve covered Ivanka Trump, the entrepreneur,” explains Riza Cruz, executive editor of Marie Claire. “Since she’s stepped away from the day-to-day of her company, we would consider how her new role affects women across the country and around the world.” So far, the magazine has been publishing a mix of hard news and opinion pieces about Ivanka’s turn to politics alongside shorter items focused on her fashion choices. It’s not quite the same as the aggressively political path Cruz’s colleagues south of the border have taken. In July, the eldest Trump daughter appeared on the cover of the Mexican and Latin American edition of Marie Claire, alongside the headline “Hasta cuando defenderas a tu padre?” How long will you defend your father? “It is hard for me to think that you, a privileged and educated woman, tolerates his dangerous ideas,” editor-in-chief Daniela Von Wobeser wrote in the opening letter.
Then there’s Allure’s approach: The magazine has been busy covering the ups and downs of the first daughter’s clothing, fragrance and accessories empire, but has steered clear of the kind of “what she’s wearing” feature they might have published in years past. “We don’t really have future plans to cover Ivanka in the magazine,” says Michelle Lee, editor of Allure. “We would consider covering her if there were a story that were truly newsworthy, but her personal fashion/beauty/lifestyle are not something on our radar. It’s impossible to cover Ivanka without getting entangled in politics.”
Gupta, whose blowup with Ivanka made headlines (and who is also a friend), is one of a vocal group of writers who insist that women’s magazines have to get entangled in politics. “The Trumps should not appear on any magazine covers in a fawning, look-at-how-beautiful-they-are kind of way — editors should avoid these editorials or images where we’re just talking about their fashion,” she says. And that especially goes for the first daughter, not in spite of the fact that “Ivanka is very, very polished, media savvy and glamorous” — but because of it, Gupta says.
Candidate Trump deployed his daughter as an “ambassador” to Republican women when his campaign feared they would flee to Hillary Clinton en masse, Gupta notes. Even as Ivanka insisted she was “not focused on politics,” she gave interviews defending her father’s controversial remarks about women and promoting child care and maternity leave. She sounded practically like a column ripped from the pages of Cosmo or Marie Claire as she spoke at the convention, insisting that Trump would support equal pay for equal work (he hasn’t said whether he does yet). She campaigned for her father in the Philadelphia suburbs, helping to sway a crucial bloc of female swing voters in a state that helped decide the election.
That all makes her ripe for criticism, says Teen Vogue writer Lauren Duca, the author of a searing column about Trump’s manipulation of the truth that went viral in December. Ivanka “played a huge rule for a certain type of woman, especially within that 53 percent of white women that voted for him,” Duca notes. Any coverage of the first daughter, she says, should be done “rigorously and critically and with an eye for her political involvement above all else. To do anything else, to use any other mode of coverage, is irresponsible and anti-feminist.”
Duca goes one step further: “All women’s media should be inherently political. Of course you can hold serious and non-serious interests, and sometimes posts are allowed to just be about what’s cute — that’s OK. But overall, the holistic goal of any publication geared towards women should be concerned with the political, and that goes beyond who’s running for office.”
If this is where women’s magazines are headed, it’s definitely the beginning of a new era for the genre, one that not everyone likes. After Duca wrote in a tweet in December, “Ivanka Trump is poised to become the most powerful woman in the world. Don’t let her off the hook because she looks like she smells good,” Fox News host Tucker Carlson took offense, inviting Duca on his show for one of his signature dressings-down. When Duca argued that the future first daughter had, in fact, played a large and active role in the campaign and was thus fair game, Carlson responded by mocking Duca for covering both politics and fashion. “You should stick to the thigh-high boots,” he said, finishing the segment. “You’re better at that.”
The exchange — in particular Duca’s insistence that women could care about both politics and fashion — made her a hero on the left, rocketing her to more than 180,000 Twitter followers and earning her a profile in the New York Times.
But demeaning as Carlson’s remarks were, there might be readers out there who want their magazines to steer clear of politics. Most of the women’s magazines mentioned above appeal to a younger, unmarried, urban audience, and thus a liberal-leaning one. Would readers of the cluster of magazines known as the “Seven Sisters,” titles from Good Housekeeping to Redbook that have traditionally catered to married women and older audiences, agree with the politicization of the genre?
And there are also powerful figures in the magazine world who don’t feel the Trump women should be shunned for their relationship to Donald Trump. Vogue editor Anna Wintour — a major Hillary Clinton backer and fundraiser—recently said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal that the magazine would likely cover first lady Melania Trump just as they’d covered previous first ladies. She didn’t mention the first daughter, who is more political. But so far the magazine’s Ivanka repertoire has been mixed, including articles that are critical and those that are purely fashion or lifestyle focused. Powerful and alluring, the first daughter will continue to be an attractive subject for magazine editors — especially as she begins to craft a political role for herself in Washington.
On the other hand, many writers at women’s magazines seem adamantly opposed to giving Ivanka Trump a second chance to win them over — no matter how much she tries to sand down her dad’s rough edges. “We should be very worried about Ivanka’s taking on such a prominent role in the White House,” wrote Glamour’s Hillary Kelly in December. “Not because her politics are especially dangerous — in reality we don’t know much about them. And not because she lacks the intelligence or capability to act as a decision maker — if nothing else, she seems to compose herself with aplomb as a businesswoman, and her acumen has earned her high praise. What we should worry about is Ivanka’s role as the ultimate normalizer of her father’s behavior.”
Marin Cogan is a writer based in Washington D.C.
Germany’s foreign intelligence agency spied on dozens of journalists globally for almost two decades, according to Der Spiegel.
The Federal Intelligence Service, BND, monitored more than 50 telephone numbers, fax numbers and email addresses used by reporters and editors since 1999. The surveillance targeted staff at the BBC, Reuters and the New York Times as well as reporters in India, Kuwait, Lebanon and Zimbabwe.
BND declined to comment on the allegations but told Der Spiegel that it “comments exclusively to the German government or the committee responsible in the German parliament” on the issues relating to “operative aspects of its activities.”
Der Spiegel saw documents from a Bundestag inquiry into the German role in U.S.-led mass surveillance.
The BBC said it contacted the BND but hasn’t received a response.
“The BBC’s mission is to bring accurate news and information to people around the world, and our journalists should be able to operate freely and safely, with full protection for their sources,” the BBC said. “We call upon all governments to respect the operation of a free press.”
Belgian journalist Arnaud Zajtman, who worked in Africa for 20 years, was among those targeted.
“It isn’t a good feeling to know that somebody was listening in when you’re dealing with highly sensitive sources,” Zajtman said.
Der Spiegel said more details about the alleged spying will be shared today.
Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo taunted U.S. President Donald Trump after he criticized the French capital.
Trump said Friday at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland on Friday that his friend “Jim” no longer goes to Paris despite being a regular visitor in the past.
“For years, every year during the summer, he would go to Paris, was automatic [sic] with his wife and his family. Hadn’t seen him in a while. And I said, ‘Jim, let me ask you a question, how’s Paris doing? Paris? I don’t go there anymore, Paris is no longer Paris,’ ” Trump said, citing his friend who he described as “a very, very substantial guy.”
Hidalgo responded by tweeting a photo of herself with Mickey and Minnie Mouse and said “To @realDonaldTrump and his friend Jim, in @LaTourEiffel we celebrate the dynamism and the spirit of openness of #Paris with Mickey & Minnie.”
She added that bookings from U.S. tourists for the first half of 2017 have risen 30 percent compared with the previous year. And French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault tweeted that “3.5 million American tourists visited France in 2016, they’ll always be welcome.”
Paris hotels experienced a 6 percent drop in guests over 2015, after the terrorist attacks on the city late that year. And visits to the Louvre dropped by 15 percent in 2016.
French President François Hollande chimed in with his own defense Saturday.
“There is terrorism and we must fight it together. I think that it is never good to show the smallest defiance toward an allied country,” Hollande said, responding to questions during a visit at the Paris Agric fair. “I wouldn’t do it with the United States and I’m urging the U.S. president not to do it with France.”

This article was updated to correct François Hollande’s title.
President Donald Trump’s long simmering and self-proclaimed “war” with the mainstream news media exploded on Friday, as Trump doubled down on his declaration that the press is an “enemy of the American people” and press secretary Sean Spicer blocked certain media outlets from a White House briefing.
The new barrage comes after senior administration officials amped up their attacks on the press in recent days, leaving press advocates and even some members of the president’s own party uncomfortable about the fight.
“I want you all to know that we are fighting the fake news. It’s fake, phony, fake,” Trump said in his remarks at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference. “A few days ago, I called the fake news ‘the enemy of the people,’ and they are. They are the enemy of the people. Because they have no sources. They just make them up when there are none.”
With no clear differentiation separating the mainstream media from so-called “fake news” media, the president lashed out. He condemned the use of anonymous sources, which he claimed without evidence were fake accounts drummed up by an industry with its own agenda that everyday Americans must fight against. He ominously vowed to “do something about it.” Just hours before, his administration delivered a briefing to push back on a CNN story — but on the condition that the sources remain anonymous.
The White House’s disdain for the press reached new heights Friday afternoon when Spicer barred certain outlets, including POLITICO, from attending an off-camera gaggle at the White House in lieu of the daily press briefing. Reporters from the New York Times, CNN, the BBC and the Los Angeles Times were also barred, even as small, overtly political conservative outlets like Breitbart were permitted to attend. Time Magazine and the Associated Press boycotted the briefing to show solidarity with their fellow news organizations. The White House Correspondents Association condemned the White House’s move.
The episodes Friday mark only the latest chapter in the Trump White House’s attacks on the mainstream media — long a talking point of conservatives that has gone to drastic new levels since Trump’s ascension. Trump’s chief strategist Steve Bannon regularly refers to the press as the “opposition party” and told the crowd at CPAC on Thursday that the “corporatist, globalist media” opposes Trump’s agenda out of self-interest.
“Clearly this is an escalation. President Trump’s charged rhetoric, enflamed rhetoric, is intended to undermine the work of the media in the U.S.,” said Carlos Lauria, program director for the Americas at the Committee to Protect Journalists, an international non-profit organization that advocates press freedom. “But it also emboldens autocratic leaders around the world.”
He cited leaders in Egypt, Venezuela, Russia and Turkey who routinely accumulated new powers “by marginalizing the independent media.” The aim of such denigration, he said, is to inoculate the administration from legitimate criticisms by delegitimized the media.
“Such a framework is familiar in authoritarian countries where the media is undermined, marginalized and attacked,” he said. “It’s very, very troubling. It sets a terrible example for the rest of the world.”
Trump himself has said he considers the media to be a more prominent foe for him than the Democratic Party, and he often roused his crowds to rain boos on the assembled press at his campaign rallies. He routinely used his Twitter account and the lectern to attack particular reporters by name. Even the more mild-mannered Mike Pence jumped in on the attacks, lambasting the media in his stump speech for allegedly being in cahoots with the Clinton campaign.
Trump on Friday cited polls conducted by CNN, CBS, ABC and NBC News over the past two years that signaled that he wouldn’t prevail in the presidential election as evidence of the media conspiring to create “a whole false deal” to suppress GOP voter turnout.
Reporters, he said, are very smart, very cunning and very dishonest people who cry “First Amendment” when their stories are criticized, or, in the president’s word, “exposed.”
“I love the First Amendment. Nobody loves it better than me. Nobody,” Trump said. “I mean, who uses it more than I do? But the First Amendment gives all of us — it gives it to me, it gives it you, it gives it to all Americans — the right to speak our minds freely. It gives you the right and me the right to criticize fake news and criticize it strongly.”
“As you saw throughout the entire campaign, and even now, the fake news doesn’t tell the truth. Doesn’t tell the truth,” he continued. “I say it doesn’t represent the people. It never will represent the people. And we’re gonna do something about it, because we have to go out and we have to speak our minds, and we have to be honest.”
The escalating attacks have worried even some in the president’s own party and cabinet, drawing rebukes — some harder than others. Defense Secretary James Mattis recently said he had no problem with the press, and Pence told reporters in Europe that the White House remained dedicated to a free and independent press. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said Trump’s “enemy of the people” line was reminiscent of the language “dictators” use to discredit a free press.
Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), one of Trump’s most vocal critics within the Republican Party, spoke out against Trump’s latest broadsides against the media.
“The First Amendment is the beating heart of America because free and vigorous debate is what our country is all about. It’s messy but it’s beautiful, and it depends, in large part, on a free press that reports facts and defends truth with intellectual honesty and high standards. It doesn’t matter if you’re in the Oval Office or on the school board, every public servant should celebrate the First Amendment and teach it to our kids,” Sasse said in a statement to POLITICO on Friday.
Five weeks into his presidency, Trump has been plagued by damaging leaks detailing West Wing infighting, “tough calls” with foreign leaders and overall dysfunction coming from the nascent administration.
Over that time, Trump’s use of the term “fake news” to describe mainstream media outlets that he does not like has increased significantly.
The term first emerged prominently after the election, and was used to describe hoax articles published on websites not affiliated with actual news organizations. Many of those articles, including pieces claiming falsely that Pope Francis endorsed Trump and that Hillary Clinton was involved in a child slavery ring run out of a Washington pizza parlor, gained significant traction on social media. Some, like the pizza story and a fabricated story alleging pro-Clinton voter fraud in Ohio, were even touted by prominent Trump supporters and surrogates. Many of the stories were written either in favor of Trump or critical of Clinton, or both.
The trend was so startling as to warrant a rebuke from President Barack Obama in his farewell address.
“Increasingly, we become so secure in our bubbles that we start accepting only information, whether it’s true or not, that fits our opinions, instead of basing our opinions on the evidence that is out there,” he said.
But, very quickly, some prominent conservatives sought to weaponize the term “fake news” and use it to describe mainstream media outlets — both muddling the conversation about the hoax stories and sowing confusion among news consumers.
Before long, Trump was berating the mainstream news media as “fake news” on his Twitter feed and in speeches. He first used it on Twitter on Jan. 13 and has tweeted the term 21 times. Conservative outlets have followed suit, with The Federalist published a piece on “16 Fake News Stories Reporters Have Run Since Trump Won.” But unlike the hoax stories that sparked the conversations around fake news, these included mistakes by mainstream outlets, which in almost every case were corrected or clarified.
CNN’s reporting Thursday night on revelations that the FBI had rebuffed a White House request to push back publicly on reports that the Trump campaign and associates had contacts with Russian intelligence officials during the presidential election seems to have sparked the latest White House attacks.
In his remarks, Trump also alluded to a Washington Post report published earlier this month. Citing nine current and former officials, the Post reported that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn had discussed lifting sanctions against Russia with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during the presidential transition, a revelation that eventually led to his resignation. The report was accurate and ultimately led to Flynn’s firing. But even though Trump fired Flynn for misleading Pence about the conversations — which was only revealed by the Post’s reporting — he still decried the story.
“There are no nine people. I don’t believe there was one or two people,” Trump said. He provided no evidence to refute the Post’s account but suggested he has insight because he knows the sources.
“Nine people,” he continued. “And I said, ‘Give me a break,’ because I know the people. I know who they talk to. There were no nine people. But they say nine people. And somebody reads it and they think, ‘Oh, nine people, they have nine sources.’ They make up sources. They’re very dishonest people.”
Trump even used coverage of his attacks on the press to further attack the press.
“They dropped off the word ‘fake.’ And all of a sudden, the story became: The media is the enemy,” he recalled of the coverage. “They take the word ‘fake’ out. And now I’m saying, ‘Oh, no, this is no good.’ But that’s the way they are. So I’m not against the media. I’m not against the press. I don’t mind bad stories if I deserve them. And I love good stories. But we won’t — I don’t get too many of them. But I am only against the fake news media or press. Fake. Fake. They have to leave that word.”
Trump has never offered a definition of what he means by “fake news” beyond stories he dislikes.
Lauria, of CPJ, pointed to Trump’s attacks on the use of anonymous sources as “absolutely inappropriate and shows a misunderstanding of roles of the press.
“Some of the most important investigations in U.S. history, including Watergate, have involved anonymous sources,” he noted.
Richard Nixon, who also labeled the press as the enemy, was forced to resign in the wake of reporting on the Watergate scandal by the Washington Post.
The British government on Tuesday rejected a petition that gathered over 1.8 million signatures calling for the U.K. to withdraw a state visit invitation issued to U.S. President Donald Trump.
“The president of the United States should be extended the full courtesy of a state visit,” the government said in a statement responding to the petition. “We look forward to welcoming President Trump once dates and arrangements are finalized.”
The government said it recognized “the strong views expressed by the many signatories of this petition.”
British MPs will still debate the issue February 20.
May announced during a trip to Washington last month that Queen Elizabeth II had invited Trump to the U.K. for a state visit. The U.S. president accepted the invitation.
While the date for the visit has not been confirmed, according to local media it is likely to be slated for the summer to avoid controversy over whether Trump should address parliament.
Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump’s national security adviser, carried on this past weekend as planned, despite reports that he had inappropriate conversations with Russia’s foreign minister before Trump took office. Flynn trekked to Mar-a-Lago, hopped on phone calls with foreign leaders, huddled with senior Trump officials and was in on the presidential daily briefing.
At the same time, Flynn’s political future was crashing down around him: Trump’s aides and top allies urged the president to get rid of Flynn, after it became clear he discussed sanctions with Russian officials and lied about it to Vice President Mike Pence and other administration officials.
By Monday night, the president had made his first big staff shake-up, causing chaos in a nascent presidency and raising further questions about the president’s ability to handle national security matters in the first month of his tenure.
Though questions about Flynn’s conversations — and whether he fully communicated the details of those discussions with administration officials — overshadowed Trump’s weekend meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, perhaps most damaging to the Trump administration was a report from The Washington Post that Trump officials were informed by the Justice Department of the issues at least several weeks before and had chosen not to act.
Trump’s decision on what to do with Flynn was not easy, according to several people who spoke with him about it. The president values loyalty perhaps more than anything, and Flynn had been one of his most staunch surrogates on the campaign trail. The president saw Flynn as a fellow outsider who had a good sense of the national security challenges. “Trump liked the way he talked to him,” one adviser said. “He thought Flynn knew what he was doing.”
But Trump became increasingly convinced that the question of Flynn’s contact with Russia wasn’t going away. His top aides and advisers distrusted Flynn, according to senior White House officials and others who spoke with Trump, and Trump was concerned that the intelligence and national security community would always oppose Flynn, sources said.
“I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador,” Flynn said in a resignation letter. “I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology.”
Pence was unhappy with Flynn for not telling him the truth and told the president about his displeasure, a White House official said, but said he would accept whatever decision the president made.
Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, who is close with Bannon, was aware of the uncertainty about Flynn’s future and the concerns in Trump’s orbit but tried to telegraph on TV that the adviser wasn’t in trouble hoping the storm could pass, one person familiar with her thinking said.
“General Flynn does enjoy the full confidence of the president,” Conway said.
Her appearance created waves in Trump’s orbit, and Sean Spice
The British government on Tuesday rejected a petition that gathered over 1.8 million signatures calling for the U.K. to withdraw a state visit invitation issued to U.S. President Donald Trump.
“The president of the United States should be extended the full courtesy of a state visit,” the government said in a statement responding to the petition. “We look forward to welcoming President Trump once dates and arrangements are finalized.”
The government said it recognized “the strong views expressed by the many signatories of this petition.”
British MPs will still debate the issue February 20.
May announced during a trip to Washington last month that Queen Elizabeth II had invited Trump to the U.K. for a state visit. The U.S. president accepted the invitation.
While the date for the visit has not been confirmed, according to local media it is likely to be slated for the summer to avoid controversy over whether Trump should address parliament.
Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump’s national security adviser, carried on this past weekend as planned, despite reports that he had inappropriate conversations with Russia’s foreign minister before Trump took office. Flynn trekked to Mar-a-Lago, hopped on phone calls with foreign leaders, huddled with senior Trump officials and was in on the presidential daily briefing.
At the same time, Flynn’s political future was crashing down around him: Trump’s aides and top allies urged the president to get rid of Flynn, after it became clear he discussed sanctions with Russian officials and lied about it to Vice President Mike Pence and other administration officials.
By Monday night, the president had made his first big staff shake-up, causing chaos in a nascent presidency and raising further questions about the president’s ability to handle national security matters in the first month of his tenure.
Though questions about Flynn’s conversations — and whether he fully communicated the details of those discussions with administration officials — overshadowed Trump’s weekend meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, perhaps most damaging to the Trump administration was a report from The Washington Post that Trump officials were informed by the Justice Department of the issues at least several weeks before and had chosen not to act.
Trump’s decision on what to do with Flynn was not easy, according to several people who spoke with him about it. The president values loyalty perhaps more than anything, and Flynn had been one of his most staunch surrogates on the campaign trail. The president saw Flynn as a fellow outsider who had a good sense of the national security challenges. “Trump liked the way he talked to him,” one adviser said. “He thought Flynn knew what he was doing.”
But Trump became increasingly convinced that the question of Flynn’s contact with Russia wasn’t going away. His top aides and advisers distrusted Flynn, according to senior White House officials and others who spoke with Trump, and Trump was concerned that the intelligence and national security community would always oppose Flynn, sources said.
“I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador,” Flynn said in a resignation letter. “I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology.”
Pence was unhappy with Flynn for not telling him the truth and told the president about his displeasure, a White House official said, but said he would accept whatever decision the president made.
Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, who is close with Bannon, was aware of the uncertainty about Flynn’s future and the concerns in Trump’s orbit but tried to telegraph on TV that the adviser wasn’t in trouble hoping the storm could pass, one person familiar with her thinking said.
“General Flynn does enjoy the full confidence of the president,” Conway said.
Her appearance created waves in Trump’s orbit, and Sean Spicer, Trump’s press secretary, who has expressed displeasure about Conway to associates, immediately put out a statement that seemed to contradict her.
“The president is evaluating the situation,” Spicer said soon after Conway’s remarks.
One person who frequently speaks to Trump said the president was reluctant to ditch Flynn because he doesn’t “like to fire people who are loyal.” Even Monday evening, Trump was still pondering the decision, the person said.
“He has this reputation of being a ‘you’re fired’ kind of guy, but he really didn’t want to have that conversation,” the person said.
Heading the agency in Flynn’s absence will be Keith Kellogg, Flynn’s chief of staff, but he is not guaranteed the job permanently, senior officials said.
Officials are searching for a permanent head and meeting with officials, including Gen. David Petraeus. Also, in the hunt to replace Flynn, according to a senior administration official, is Vice Admiral Robert Harward, who is the frontrunner, a senior White House official said.
A number of White House and national security officials are involved in the search, including CIA Director Mike Pompeo, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Department of Homeland Security John Kelly, chief of staff Reince Priebus, chief strategist Stephen Bannon and son-in-law Jared Kushner, a senior official said.
Retired Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who has known Kellogg for decades, said early Tuesday that he is a “good man” who was among the earliest Trump loyalists.
But he doubted he will be a permanent replacement for Flynn.
“He won’t be the selection,” McCaffrey predicted, saying Flynn’s permanent replacement has to be “someone with the chops needed to deal with Bannon and Miller, references to two of the president’s top political advisers, Steve Bannon and Stephen Miller.
Flynn’s decision to resign came after it became clear to him that he had lost the president’s trust, officials said. Flynn was increasingly isolated from Trump’s inner circle, and became convinced that he had little support by Monday afternoon after making a number of calls to Trump confidants and aides, according to a White House official.
Flynn was also rattled by a number of news media reports that said he was on the outs, according to a high-ranking official. He “knew things weren’t heading in the right direction for him and that Trump might be changing his position.”
Flynn, long a controversial figure in the national security establishment, was widely disliked by many of Trump’s aides who were more aligned with the establishment wing of the party, according to several aides.
Though he was particularly close to Bannon, the president’s top strategist and a philosophical and strategic adviser with a vast sway on the presidency, Bannon by the weekend had told Flynn to “do the right thing” and resign, according to a senior White House official.
Trump spent the weekend in difficult conversations about Flynn and talked with a number of top aides on Monday, many of whom told the president to get rid of Flynn, according to several people who spoke with him.
Yet Flynn spent the weekend at Mar-a-Lago and was on the front row Monday when Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau came to the White House.
Two people close to Trump said that many in Trump’s world had turned on Flynn and used the latest story to try and drive him out. Others in Trump’s immediate circle wondered “why Trump kept defending him.”
Flynn seemed to take the departure in stride. The last four words of his resignation letter posted Monday night were Trump’s presidential slogan: “Make America Great Again.”
Bryan Bender contributed reporting.
U.S. National Security Adviser Michael Flynn has resigned, a Trump administration official confirmed Monday evening.
The resignation came amid a growing scandal over Flynn’s contact with Russia’s ambassador during the transition period, and his apparent obfuscations to Vice President Mike Pence about the calls.
“In the course of my duties as the incoming national security adviser, I held numerous phone calls with foreign counterparts, ministers, and ambassadors. These calls were to facilitate a smooth transition and begin to build the necessary relationships between the president, his advisers and foreign leaders. Such calls are standard practice in any transition of this magnitude,” Flynn wrote in his resignation letter.
“Unfortunately, because of the fast pace of events, I inadvertently briefed the vice president-elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian ambassador. I have sincerely apologized to the president and the vice president, and they have accepted my apology.
Keith Kellogg, the chief of staff, will step in as the acting national security adviser and head of the National Security Council.
A number of President Donald Trump’s top aides urged him to force Flynn’s resignation, but Trump privately wavered, even as he criticized Flynn after news reports indicated Flynn wasn’t honest about his communications with Russian officials.
He said the general was loyal to him during the campaign, and he appreciated his strength and intelligence.
Earlier it was reported that President Donald Trump’s adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was involved in a search for candidates to replace Flynn, according to sources close to the administration.
The list of possible replacements includes retired General David Petraeus, who’s scheduled to meet with Trump at the White House on Tuesday, according to people familiar with the plans. Other possibilities: Stephen Hadley, who served as national security adviser under President George W. Bush; Tom Bossert, who also served as a national security aide under Bush and now oversees cybersecurity under Trump; Admiral James Stavridis, dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts; and Department of Homeland Security head John Kelly. Vice Admiral Robert Harward and Kellogg are also under consideration.
Petraeus was briefly considered for secretary of state during the transition but was passed over in part because of his 2015 conviction for mishandling classified information.
Before the situation was resolved Monday night, a source familiar with the situation said that former acting Attorney General Sally Yates had briefed Donald McGahn, chief White House counsel, on Flynn’s apparent misstatements about his discussions with the Russians. Yates was dismissed a few days later — after refusing to enforce Trump’s travel ban executive order — but the source said her briefing on Flynn did not appear to play a role in her firing. The news of the Yates briefing was first reported by the Washington Post.
In a bid to save his position, one West Wing source said Flynn had been in “full groveling mode,” hoping a show of contrition may enable him to survive, especially if “a suitable replacement doesn’t emerge quickly.”
According to the source, Flynn’s allies tried to convince Trump that making a switch less than a month into his presidency will “look like an admission he made a mistake.”
Questions about Flynn’s status were met with conflicting responses by White House officials Monday. “The president is evaluating the situation,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters Monday evening. “He’s getting input, he’s looking at the situation.”
Earlier in the day, Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway sent a different message in a television appearance. “General Flynn does enjoy the full confidence of the president,” Conway told MSNBC.
Trump hasn’t addressed questions about Flynn since Friday, when he told reporters on board Air Force One that he would “look into” the reports that Flynn lied about improperly discussing sanctions imposed on Russia by the Obama administration with Russia’s ambassador before Trump’s inauguration.
Flynn spent the weekend with Trump in Florida at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort and was part of the delegation welcoming Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to the White House on Monday.
A White House spokeswoman declined to respond r, Trump’s press secretary, who has expressed displeasure about Conway to associates, immediately put out a statement that seemed to contradict her.
“The president is evaluating the situation,” Spicer said soon after Conway’s remarks.
One person who frequently speaks to Trump said the president was reluctant to ditch Flynn because he doesn’t “like to fire people who are loyal.” Even Monday evening, Trump was still pondering the decision, the person said.
“He has this reputation of being a ‘you’re fired’ kind of guy, but he really didn’t want to have that conversation,” the person said.
Heading the agency in Flynn’s absence will be Keith Kellogg, Flynn’s chief of staff, but he is not guaranteed the job permanently, senior officials said.
Officials are searching for a permanent head and meeting with officials, including Gen. David Petraeus. Also, in the hunt to replace Flynn, according to a senior administration official, is Vice Admiral Robert Harward, who is the frontrunner, a senior White House official said.
A number of White House and national security officials are involved in the search, including CIA Director Mike Pompeo, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Department of Homeland Security John Kelly, chief of staff Reince Priebus, chief strategist Stephen Bannon and son-in-law Jared Kushner, a senior official said.
Retired Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who has known Kellogg for decades, said early Tuesday that he is a “good man” who was among the earliest Trump loyalists.
But he doubted he will be a permanent replacement for Flynn.
“He won’t be the selection,” McCaffrey predicted, saying Flynn’s permanent replacement has to be “someone with the chops needed to deal with Bannon and Miller, references to two of the president’s top political advisers, Steve Bannon and Stephen Miller.
Flynn’s decision to resign came after it became clear to him that he had lost the president’s trust, officials said. Flynn was increasingly isolated from Trump’s inner circle, and became convinced that he had little support by Monday afternoon after making a number of calls to Trump confidants and aides, according to a White House official.
Flynn was also rattled by a number of news media reports that said he was on the outs, according to a high-ranking official. He “knew things weren’t heading in the right direction for him and that Trump might be changing his position.”
Flynn, long a controversial figure in the national security establishment, was widely disliked by many of Trump’s aides who were more aligned with the establishment wing of the party, according to several aides.
Though he was particularly close to Bannon, the president’s top strategist and a philosophical and strategic adviser with a vast sway on the presidency, Bannon by the weekend had told Flynn to “do the right thing” and resign, according to a senior White House official.
Trump spent the weekend in difficult conversations about Flynn and talked with a number of top aides on Monday, many of whom told the president to get rid of Flynn, according to several people who spoke with him.
Yet Flynn spent the weekend at Mar-a-Lago and was on the front row Monday when Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau came to the White House.
Two people close to Trump said that many in Trump’s world had turned on Flynn and used the latest story to try and drive him out. Others in Trump’s immediate circle wondered “why Trump kept defending him.”
Flynn seemed to take the departure in stride. The last four words of his resignation letter posted Monday night were Trump’s presidential slogan: “Make America Great Again.”
Bryan Bender contributed reporting.
U.S. National Security Adviser Michael Flynn has resigned, a Trump administration official confirmed Monday evening.
The resignation came amid a growing scandal over Flynn’s contact with Russia’s ambassador during the transition period, and his apparent obfuscations to Vice President Mike Pence about the calls.
“In the course of my duties as the incoming national security adviser, I held numerous phone calls with foreign counterparts, ministers, and ambassadors. These calls were to facilitate a smooth transition and begin to build the necessary relationships between the president, his advisers and foreign leaders. Such calls are standard practice in any transition of this magnitude,” Flynn wrote in his resignation letter.
“Unfortunately, because of the fast pace of events, I inadvertently briefed the vice president-elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian ambassador. I have sincerely apologized to the president and the vice president, and they have accepted my apology.
Keith Kellogg, the chief of staff, will step in as the acting national security adviser and head of the National Security Council.
A number of President Donald Trump’s top aides urged him to force Flynn’s resignation, but Trump privately wavered, even as he criticized Flynn after news reports indicated Flynn wasn’t honest about his communications with Russian officials.
He said the general was loyal to him during the campaign, and he appreciated his strength and intelligence.
Earlier it was reported that President Donald Trump’s adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was involved in a search for candidates to replace Flynn, according to sources close to the administration.
The list of possible replacements includes retired General David Petraeus, who’s scheduled to meet with Trump at the White House on Tuesday, according to people familiar with the plans. Other possibilities: Stephen Hadley, who served as national security adviser under President George W. Bush; Tom Bossert, who also served as a national security aide under Bush and now oversees cybersecurity under Trump; Admiral James Stavridis, dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts; and Department of Homeland Security head John Kelly. Vice Admiral Robert Harward and Kellogg are also under consideration.
Petraeus was briefly considered for secretary of state during the transition but was passed over in part because of his 2015 conviction for mishandling classified information.
Before the situation was resolved Monday night, a source familiar with the situation said that former acting Attorney General Sally Yates had briefed Donald McGahn, chief White House counsel, on Flynn’s apparent misstatements about his discussions with the Russians. Yates was dismissed a few days later — after refusing to enforce Trump’s travel ban executive order — but the source said her briefing on Flynn did not appear to play a role in her firing. The news of the Yates briefing was first reported by the Washington Post.
In a bid to save his position, one West Wing source said Flynn had been in “full groveling mode,” hoping a show of contrition may enable him to survive, especially if “a suitable replacement doesn’t emerge quickly.”
According to the source, Flynn’s allies tried to convince Trump that making a switch less than a month into his presidency will “look like an admission he made a mistake.”
Questions about Flynn’s status were met with conflicting responses by White House officials Monday. “The president is evaluating the situation,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters Monday evening. “He’s getting input, he’s looking at the situation.”
Earlier in the day, Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway sent a different message in a television appearance. “General Flynn does enjoy the full confidence of the president,” Conway told MSNBC.
Trump hasn’t addressed questions about Flynn since Friday, when he told reporters on board Air Force One that he would “look into” the reports that Flynn lied about improperly discussing sanctions imposed on Russia by the Obama administration with Russia’s ambassador before Trump’s inauguration.
Flynn spent the weekend with Trump in Florida at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort and was part of the delegation welcoming Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to the White House on Monday.
A White House spokeswoman declined to respond to questions from POLITICO about the search for potential Flynn successors.
Trump has long admired Petraeus and sought his counsel. “Trump likes him, he respects him,” said a person close to Trump.
Petraeus did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Hadley, who served in previous Republican administrations, also did not respond to a request for comment. During the campaign, he declined to sign letters issued by mainstream Republicans criticizing Trump’s most provocative stances. He said at the time that he felt that should Trump win it would be advisable that he feel comfortable turning to experienced members of the party’s foreign policy establishment for advice.
Stavridis, a former commander of NATO, emailed POLITICO that he has not heard anything from the White House. “All quiet in my nets,” the retired admiral said.
Flynn, a retired three-star general who was forced out as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency in 2014, was one of the first and most decorated military officers to back Trump and became a fixture on the stump during the presidential campaign.
It would have broken longstanding precedent, and possibly the law, for Flynn to have discussed the sanctions with the Kremlin before the inauguration, when he was still a private citizen. Flynn had acknowledged speaking to Russia’s ambassador in that time but denied that the sanctions came up, and Vice President Pence went on television to back him up.
Spicer also said it was his understanding that Flynn had apologized to Pence, who went on television and said, based on conversations with Flynn, that sanctions weren’t mentioned on the call.
Democrats on the House oversight committee delivered a letter Monday night to committee chairman Jason Chaffetz (a Utah Republican) asking for an investigation into Flynn and his ties to Russia. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi also called for Flynn to be fired.
“Michael Flynn’s conduct was alarming enough before his secret communications with the Russians were exposed,” Pelosi said in a statement. “Now, we have a national security adviser who cannot be trusted not to put Putin before America.”
Bryan Bender, Madeline Conway, Josh Gerstein and Darren Samuelsohn contributed to this report.
The European Commission is fast losing its standoff with Poland over judicial independence.
While a deadline at the end of this month could open the door to sanctions, the Commission has found little enthusiasm in the bloc to punish Warsaw so far and even less unity on how to handle the right-wing government.
“I will repeat: We will not drop this issue — it’s too important,” Frans Timmermans, the Commission vice president in charge of a rule of law probe into Poland, told POLITICO.
Timmermans’ assertions aside, other commissioners and some member countries are wary of alienating Poland at a time when the EU is roiled by an existential crisis.
Should the issue come to a vote, the Commission is unlikely to be able to secure unanimity in the Council, which is required in order to send a warning to Poland for “serious and persistent breach” of the rule of law. The Council needs to issue two formal warnings before it can trigger sanctions and will need a qualified majority to do so.
“The Commission has handled the case very badly,” said a high-ranking official from a Central European country. “What’s the endgame? The Commission has no idea how to finalize this. They have no idea how to push it.”
Relations between Poland and the EU turned sour after the Law and Justice (PiS) party of Jarosław Kaczyński won power in 2015 and then refused to accept five judges chosen to the country’s top constitutional court by the previous government.
The move was widely seen as an attack on an independent judiciary and swiftly earned a rebuke from the Commission, which launched a probe looking into “systemic threats” to the rule of law in Poland.
In December, Brussels gave Warsaw a two-month deadline to respond to a series of recommendations. If there is no “satisfactory follow-up” by the end of February, the Commission could try to trigger Article 7, the so-called “nuclear option” which would result in Poland losing its voting rights in the Council.
In the Parliament, the European People’s Party, the Socialists and the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats (ALDE) favor penalizing Poland if the government doesn’t comply with the Commission’s rule of law procedure, and in December Guy Verhofstadt, the leader of ALDE, urged the Commission “to trigger Article 7.”
“The PiS government has deliberately decided to ignore the recommendations of the European Commission, of the Venice Commission and of this Parliament,” he said in a statement. “Dialogue must come to an end now. It is time for action.”
The Parliament’s role is not incidental. The Council needs the consent of the European Parliament to issue a warning against Poland for “serious breach” of the rule of law, a preliminary step before it can decide on sanctions.
Timmermans argues the Commission can’t be the sole guarantor of the rule of law in the EU. “It’s a responsibility of us all, including the member states,” he said.
But few member countries are eager to take on Poland, the EU’s sixth largest country by population, at a time when the EU is plagued by internal crisis and uncertainty over how to deal with Russia and the new Trump administration in the United States.
“I very much doubt that member states will be willing, in this climate, to go on and confront Poland,” said one European diplomat.
Certainly, officials in Warsaw hardly seem to be quaking in their boots.
Poland’s EU affairs minister, Konrad Szymański, declined to comment for this article, citing an “ongoing dialogue with the European Commission” as the reason. But Szymański told Poland’s TVN24 news channel last week that his country would give its answer to the Commission by the February deadline to show that the steps taken by the government “follow the rule of law.”
He also took issue with Commission Vice President Jyrki Katainen’s comments that Poland could lose its voting rights in the Council. “He’s a politician and should understand that these types of scenarios are completely divorced from the political reality of the European Union.”
The political reality: also known as Hungary.
If the Council decides to try to sanction Poland, it will require the consent of a qualified majority of the other members — something likely to be vetoed by several Eastern European countries, including Hungary, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is a well-known ally of Poland’s Kaczyński.
Some member countries may support the Commission’s rule of law procedure in principle but an increasing number of diplomats, MEPs and some EU commissioners are divided about the efficacy of the probe, with some officials pointing out there is no unanimity among commissioners.
“Everybody agrees on the Commission’s legal diagnosis,” said a Commission official. “But at the College of Commissioners, they know that it’s politically complicated.”
Some officials even argue the rule of law procedure has been damaging rather than helpful, and that “sanctions are likely to reinforce the current government in Poland.”
In terms of how the probe has been handled, the high-ranking official from a Central European country was critical of the Commission.
“They underestimated Kaczyński,” the official said, referring to Poland’s de facto leader who recently called the EU’s rule-of-law mechanism a “comedy.” “They failed to understand that they can’t deal with the government and that they had to deal with him instead. But they don’t have any channels.”
In a sign of just how concerned some countries are, there is growing support for a Belgian proposal to have an alternative mechanism by which the Commission can challenge member countries on their adherence to the EU’s democratic principles.
Last year, Belgium proposed subjecting all member countries to a periodic review of their adherence to “rule of law” standardsto questions from POLITICO about the search for potential Flynn successors.
Trump has long admired Petraeus and sought his counsel. “Trump likes him, he respects him,” said a person close to Trump.
Petraeus did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Hadley, who served in previous Republican administrations, also did not respond to a request for comment. During the campaign, he declined to sign letters issued by mainstream Republicans criticizing Trump’s most provocative stances. He said at the time that he felt that should Trump win it would be advisable that he feel comfortable turning to experienced members of the party’s foreign policy establishment for advice.
Stavridis, a former commander of NATO, emailed POLITICO that he has not heard anything from the White House. “All quiet in my nets,” the retired admiral said.
Flynn, a retired three-star general who was forced out as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency in 2014, was one of the first and most decorated military officers to back Trump and became a fixture on the stump during the presidential campaign.
It would have broken longstanding precedent, and possibly the law, for Flynn to have discussed the sanctions with the Kremlin before the inauguration, when he was still a private citizen. Flynn had acknowledged speaking to Russia’s ambassador in that time but denied that the sanctions came up, and Vice President Pence went on television to back him up.
Spicer also said it was his understanding that Flynn had apologized to Pence, who went on television and said, based on conversations with Flynn, that sanctions weren’t mentioned on the call.
Democrats on the House oversight committee delivered a letter Monday night to committee chairman Jason Chaffetz (a Utah Republican) asking for an investigation into Flynn and his ties to Russia. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi also called for Flynn to be fired.
“Michael Flynn’s conduct was alarming enough before his secret communications with the Russians were exposed,” Pelosi said in a statement. “Now, we have a national security adviser who cannot be trusted not to put Putin before America.”
Bryan Bender, Madeline Conway, Josh Gerstein and Darren Samuelsohn contributed to this report.
The European Commission is fast losing its standoff with Poland over judicial independence.
While a deadline at the end of this month could open the door to sanctions, the Commission has found little enthusiasm in the bloc to punish Warsaw so far and even less unity on how to handle the right-wing government.
“I will repeat: We will not drop this issue — it’s too important,” Frans Timmermans, the Commission vice president in charge of a rule of law probe into Poland, told POLITICO.
Timmermans’ assertions aside, other commissioners and some member countries are wary of alienating Poland at a time when the EU is roiled by an existential crisis.
Should the issue come to a vote, the Commission is unlikely to be able to secure unanimity in the Council, which is required in order to send a warning to Poland for “serious and persistent breach” of the rule of law. The Council needs to issue two formal warnings before it can trigger sanctions and will need a qualified majority to do so.
“The Commission has handled the case very badly,” said a high-ranking official from a Central European country. “What’s the endgame? The Commission has no idea how to finalize this. They have no idea how to push it.”
Relations between Poland and the EU turned sour after the Law and Justice (PiS) party of Jarosław Kaczyński won power in 2015 and then refused to accept five judges chosen to the country’s top constitutional court by the previous government.
The move was widely seen as an attack on an independent judiciary and swiftly earned a rebuke from the Commission, which launched a probe looking into “systemic threats” to the rule of law in Poland.
In December, Brussels gave Warsaw a two-month deadline to respond to a series of recommendations. If there is no “satisfactory follow-up” by the end of February, the Commission could try to trigger Article 7, the so-called “nuclear option” which would result in Poland losing its voting rights in the Council.
In the Parliament, the European People’s Party, the Socialists and the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats (ALDE) favor penalizing Poland if the government doesn’t comply with the Commission’s rule of law procedure, and in December Guy Verhofstadt, the leader of ALDE, urged the Commission “to trigger Article 7.”
“The PiS government has deliberately decided to ignore the recommendations of the European Commission, of the Venice Commission and of this Parliament,” he said in a statement. “Dialogue must come to an end now. It is time for action.”
The Parliament’s role is not incidental. The Council needs the consent of the European Parliament to issue a warning against Poland for “serious breach” of the rule of law, a preliminary step before it can decide on sanctions.
Timmermans argues the Commission can’t be the sole guarantor of the rule of law in the EU. “It’s a responsibility of us all, including the member states,” he said.
But few member countries are eager to take on Poland, the EU’s sixth largest country by population, at a time when the EU is plagued by internal crisis and uncertainty over how to deal with Russia and the new Trump administration in the United States.
“I very much doubt that member states will be willing, in this climate, to go on and confront Poland,” said one European diplomat.
Certainly, officials in Warsaw hardly seem to be quaking in their boots.
Poland’s EU affairs minister, Konrad Szymański, declined to comment for this article, citing an “ongoing dialogue with the European Commission” as the reason. But Szymański told Poland’s TVN24 news channel last week that his country would give its answer to the Commission by the February deadline to show that the steps taken by the government “follow the rule of law.”
He also took issue with Commission Vice President Jyrki Katainen’s comments that Poland could lose its voting rights in the Council. “He’s a politician and should understand that these types of scenarios are completely divorced from the political reality of the European Union.”
The political reality: also known as Hungary.
If the Council decides to try to sanction Poland, it will require the consent of a qualified majority of the other members — something likely to be vetoed by several Eastern European countries, including Hungary, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is a well-known ally of Poland’s Kaczyński.
Some member countries may support the Commission’s rule of law procedure in principle but an increasing number of diplomats, MEPs and some EU commissioners are divided about the efficacy of the probe, with some officials pointing out there is no unanimity among commissioners.
“Everybody agrees on the Commission’s legal diagnosis,” said a Commission official. “But at the College of Commissioners, they know that it’s politically complicated.”
Some officials even argue the rule of law procedure has been damaging rather than helpful, and that “sanctions are likely to reinforce the current government in Poland.”
In terms of how the probe has been handled, the high-ranking official from a Central European country was critical of the Commission.
“They underestimated Kaczyński,” the official said, referring to Poland’s de facto leader who recently called the EU’s rule-of-law mechanism a “comedy.” “They failed to understand that they can’t deal with the government and that they had to deal with him instead. But they don’t have any channels.”
In a sign of just how concerned some countries are, there is growing support for a Belgian proposal to have an alternative mechanism by which the Commission can challenge member countries on their adherence to the EU’s democratic principles.
Last year, Belgium proposed subjecting all member countries to a periodic review of their adherence to “rule of law” standards, to avoid giving the impression that any one country is being singled out.
George Katrougkalos, Greece’s minister responsible for European affairs, said he is supportive of the Belgian proposal. “We promote the idea of the rule of law more efficiently if we don’t target one country,” he said, adding that “sanctions are generally unproductive.”
However, another high-ranking official from a Western European country said he was rather optimistic about the outcome of the probe. “Poland hasn’t changed behavior but it doesn’t mean the effect is null,” he said. “It has certainly damaged their reputation.”
Joanna Plucinska and Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this article.
This article has been updated to clarify that PiS won power in 2015 and that Poland is the EU’s sixth-largest country by population.
The EU’s long tradition of funding its worst critics could be upended if lawmakers cut off the cash to a political group dubbed “the worst right-wing extremists and neofascists” in Europe.
What happens to the Alliance of Peace and Freedom is a test case for the European Union, which handed over €600,000 to the group and its affiliates in 2016 and is slated to do so again this year. Some mainstream MEPs, who describe the group as racist and violent, are deploying a previously unused procedure to halt the funding.
The group denies the charges against it and threatens to take the case to court if the money isn’t forthcoming.
EU cash is regularly handed out to groups that are critical of the bloc, including Euroskeptic parties that want to see it brought to its knees such as Nigel Farage’s UKIP and Marine Le Pen’s National Front. Any grouping of political parties is entitled to EU funds if they represent at least seven member countries, “contribute to forming a European awareness” and respect the principles of “liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.”
Hervé Van Laethem, leader of the far-right Belgian party Nation and a board member of the Alliance of Peace and Freedom, said the group meets those requirements, though possibly not quite in the way they were intended.
“Is there an obligation to see Europe like the other parties? We are a lot of European nationalists who want to work together, we have the same idea about Europe,” he told POLITICO at his party’s Brussels headquarters. “Of course we want a kind of European Union.”
In an attempt to tighten the screws on the far right group, the leaders of four political groups in the European Parliament last year launched an investigation into the Alliance over concerns that Parliament cash had been spent on a far-right conference in Stockholm last year which included anti-semitic songs. (The group’s defense was that they were sung as a joke). That investigation is ongoing.
The Alliance is also suffering because of a rule change introduced by the Parliament in December last year after some right-wing groups were repeatedly asked to repay money the Parliament alleged was misspent and were either unable or unwilling to do so.
The rule obliges political groups to provide a guarantee from a triple A-rated bank to ensure they can repay the money if asked. The Alliance has failed to provide such a guarantee, according to a Parliament spokeswoman, and as a result has so far received no money this year.
Other groups affected by the clampdown include UKIP’s Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe, Europeans United for Democracy and a new party called Coalition pour la Vie.
The Alliance says it meets the EU’s criteria because it has member parties in nine EU countries and has four MEPs — one from Germany’s National Democratic Party and three from Greece’s Golden Dawn.
The group’s manifesto says it seeks to “protect, celebrate and promote our common Christian values.” That and other language in its statutes proves it is neither racist nor violent, said the group’s lawyer Peter Richter. It has threatened legal action against the Parliament, arguing tha, to avoid giving the impression that any one country is being singled out.
George Katrougkalos, Greece’s minister responsible for European affairs, said he is supportive of the Belgian proposal. “We promote the idea of the rule of law more efficiently if we don’t target one country,” he said, adding that “sanctions are generally unproductive.”
However, another high-ranking official from a Western European country said he was rather optimistic about the outcome of the probe. “Poland hasn’t changed behavior but it doesn’t mean the effect is null,” he said. “It has certainly damaged their reputation.”
Joanna Plucinska and Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this article.
This article has been updated to clarify that PiS won power in 2015 and that Poland is the EU’s sixth-largest country by population.
The EU’s long tradition of funding its worst critics could be upended if lawmakers cut off the cash to a political group dubbed “the worst right-wing extremists and neofascists” in Europe.
What happens to the Alliance of Peace and Freedom is a test case for the European Union, which handed over €600,000 to the group and its affiliates in 2016 and is slated to do so again this year. Some mainstream MEPs, who describe the group as racist and violent, are deploying a previously unused procedure to halt the funding.
The group denies the charges against it and threatens to take the case to court if the money isn’t forthcoming.
EU cash is regularly handed out to groups that are critical of the bloc, including Euroskeptic parties that want to see it brought to its knees such as Nigel Farage’s UKIP and Marine Le Pen’s National Front. Any grouping of political parties is entitled to EU funds if they represent at least seven member countries, “contribute to forming a European awareness” and respect the principles of “liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.”
Hervé Van Laethem, leader of the far-right Belgian party Nation and a board member of the Alliance of Peace and Freedom, said the group meets those requirements, though possibly not quite in the way they were intended.
“Is there an obligation to see Europe like the other parties? We are a lot of European nationalists who want to work together, we have the same idea about Europe,” he told POLITICO at his party’s Brussels headquarters. “Of course we want a kind of European Union.”
In an attempt to tighten the screws on the far right group, the leaders of four political groups in the European Parliament last year launched an investigation into the Alliance over concerns that Parliament cash had been spent on a far-right conference in Stockholm last year which included anti-semitic songs. (The group’s defense was that they were sung as a joke). That investigation is ongoing.
The Alliance is also suffering because of a rule change introduced by the Parliament in December last year after some right-wing groups were repeatedly asked to repay money the Parliament alleged was misspent and were either unable or unwilling to do so.
The rule obliges political groups to provide a guarantee from a triple A-rated bank to ensure they can repay the money if asked. The Alliance has failed to provide such a guarantee, according to a Parliament spokeswoman, and as a result has so far received no money this year.
Other groups affected by the clampdown include UKIP’s Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe, Europeans United for Democracy and a new party called Coalition pour la Vie.
The Alliance says it meets the EU’s criteria because it has member parties in nine EU countries and has four MEPs — one from Germany’s National Democratic Party and three from Greece’s Golden Dawn.
The group’s manifesto says it seeks to “protect, celebrate and promote our common Christian values.” That and other language in its statutes proves it is neither racist nor violent, said the group’s lawyer Peter Richter. It has threatened legal action against the Parliament, arguing that it is the target of “nothing more than political persecution.”
To try to sort out the issue, MEPs on the Constitutional Affairs Committee, who will make a recommendation to the entire Parliament on whether to suspend EU funding, summoned senior members of the Alliance — Roberto Fiore of Italy’s New Force and Stefan Jacobsson, who led the now-defunct Party of the Swedes — to Brussels last Thursday to make their case.
The committee hearing was often tense, with Fiore sparring with Socialist MEPs Marita Ulvskog and Ana Gomes, who accused him of holding views incompatible with the EU’s ideals.
Attempting to demonstrate that the Alliance isn’t racist, Fiore cited a visit to Syria in 2016 to meet with members of President Bashar al-Assad’s government as evidence that the group respects Muslims, Arabs and “all the people in the world.”
The hearing was halted after MEPs complained it was turning into a platform for the far-right group, to which Richter, their lawyer, responded by saying it had turned into a “medieval witch trial.”
The Alliance said in a statement released after the hearing that Fiore, Jacobsson and Richter “repudiated every single accusation of the self-proclaimed ‘democrats,’ some of whom fled the hall during the meeting.”
György Schöpflin, a center-right Hungarian member of the parliamentary committee, remembered things differently, describing the Alliance’s performance in front of the committee as “incredibly repetitive, boring and tedious.”
It isn’t clear if MEPs did enough to make the legal case for suspending the Alliance’s funding. “Not all of them were aware of the exact rules,” said Wouter Wolfs, a researcher at the University of Leuven who specializes in the funding of eurosceptic parties. “You wonder whether the hearing really helped the European Parliament in putting up a case against the [Alliance].”
Manfred Weber, the German MEP who heads the center-right European People’s Party group, said the funding should be stopped: “The EU should not be naive and hand its opponents the stick to beat it with.” He had earlier described the Alliance as “the worst right-wing extremists and neofascists around Europe.”
The Alliance’s website includes blog posts by Nick Griffin, a former MEP and ex-leader of the British National Party, whose Twitter profile describes him as a “lifelong white rights fighter.”
Griffin’s subject matter includes the video game Angry Birds containing hidden messages about “unmistakably Islamist” villains and the risks to Swedish milkmaids of being sexually assaulted by Muslim refugees. One of the “tags” displayed at the bottom of the latter page is “white genocide.”
Griffin, Fiore and Jacobsson are the co-authors of the book “Winds of Change,” released in December, which calls for “new generations of political soldiers” and is marketed elsewhere as being “a great introduction to the ideology of revolutionary nationalism.”
In the coming weeks, the Constitutional Affairs Committee will make a recommendation on whether to suspend or approve the EU funding, taking into account the opinion of “a committee of independent eminent persons,” including Parliament President Antonio Tajani.
Richter warned that if MEPs made a decision based on politics rather than the letter of the law, he would take them to the European Court of Justice.
Hungarian MEP Schöpflin wasn’t concerned, saying: “If they want to go to the courts, fine. See you in court.”
AMSTERDAM — Geert Wilders is approaching the Dutch election bolstered by the shock victory of a like-minded campaign in the United States, and with something of his worldview reflected in Donald Trump’s White House.
Trump’s order barring people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States — currently blocked by the U.S. courts — echoes Wilders’ calls for countries across the West to stop all immigration from “Islamic countries,” which he has been advocating in speeches since at least 2014.
Now, Wilders’ U.S. contacts are pushing for a meeting with Trump in the hopes that it would give the Dutchman a new platform for his outspoken challenge to the European Union from within one of its founding states. For their part, Trump supporters see Wilders’ campaign as the next step — following the U.K.’s Brexit vote and the election of Trump — of a populist revolt that is shaking up the world order.
“I have sent those messages to the inner circle and encouraged that they communicate with Mr. Wilders,” Congressman Steve King, an Iowa Republican, told POLITICO in a phone interview. “It’s important for the Trump administration and for this White House team to be engaged in an effort to restore Western civilization.”
Wilders’ Freedom Party (PVV) is on course to become the biggest in the Dutch parliament in the March 15 election, although it may struggle to take any part in government as it is shunned by the political mainstream. Wilders portrays Islam as a totalitarian ideology locked in an existential struggle with the West and his election program proposes closing all mosques and banning the Quran.
Although historically U.S. Republicans have found little sympathy among Dutch voters, Trump’s election has boosted the confidence of PVV supporters hoping for a similar upset to the status quo.
“That’s definitely made its mark on the political landscape here,” said Tim de Beer of pollster Kantar.
The PVV were early admirers of Trump’s presidential campaign. “Donald Trump talks about immigration. Elites disgusted. Citizens embrace it,” Martin Bosma, a PVV member of parliament, tweeted back in July 2015.
Wilders got a ticket to the Republican National Convention to see Trump nominated, and spoke at a pro-Trump event there alongside alt-right journalist and firebrand Milo Yiannopoulos.
The invitations came thanks to years of working the American anti-Islam lecture circuit, through which Wilders has promoted his views in right-wing circles from Silicon Valley to Texas.
Here is a breakdown of Wilders’ U.S. links and how they lead to the White House.
In July, Wilders delivered his usual message to an atypical crowd: an event called “Wake Up!” that was billed as “the most fab party at the RNC” and presented Islam as a threat to LGBT people.
Photographs of slim men wearing Trump hats — “Twinks for Trump” — hung in the background as Wilders told the crowd Europe was “collapsing” and becoming “Eurabia.”
His account gave a sense of urgency to Trump activists, the organizers said, bolstering the impression the U.S. could be next to face the dire scenario Wilders set out.
“What Geert Wilders was talking about was telling Americans what could happen if we didn’t act to address the spread of radical Islam,” said organizer Christopher Barron, a gay conservative activist.
Wilders’ ticket to the Republican National Convention came from Bill Ketron, a Tennessee state senator who once sponsored a bill to criminalize Islamic law. Ketron gave Wilders his single extra ticket, the Tennessee Republican Party told POLITICO.
The organizers of “Wake up!” heard that Wilders was coming from Pamela Geller, an activist who was also to speak at the event. Jim Hoft, the man behind the conservative Gateway Pundit blog, told POLITICO he sent Wilders the invitation.
Geller is a long-time Wilders ally. She first invited him to the U.S. in 2009 in the wake of the controversy over his 2008 film “Fitna,” which has a strong anti-Islamic message and at one point likens Islam to Nazism. She brought him to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington in February 2009, and soon after, Arizona Senator Jon Kyl screened “Fitna” at the Capitol.
Geller is at the center of a constellation of recurring names and groups linked to events Wilders has attended in the U.S. Some have given him concrete support, such as Nina Rosenwald, an heiress who founded The Gatestone Institute. (Rosenwald told POLITICO she had supported Wilders but did not give details.)
Another supporter is Daniel Pipes, who told POLITICO his Middle East Forum paid for Wilders’ lawyer as he fought hate speech charges over the years.
The David Horowitz Freedom Centre (founded to battle “the radical left and its Islamist allies”) has donated €126,000 to Wilders’ party, according to Dutch newspaper NRC.
In the early 2010s, Wilders was in the U.S. “every month or every six weeks,” said Wim Kortenoeven, a former Freedom Party lawmaker who left the party in 2012 but remains sympathetic to its aims.
The friends and cheering crowds Wilders found in the U.S. provided a respite from his life in the Netherlands as a hugely divisive political figure living under a security lockdown.
“It’s like a refuge for him,” Kortenoeven said. “Here he is a hunted man.”
When Wilders visited Tennessee in 2011, as Ketron’s hometown of Murfreesboro was embroiled in controversy over a planned mosque, he was introduced as a “world hero” and greeted with a standing ovation.
“Nashville, Tennessee  I love it here :-)” Wilders posted on Twitter from a bar last year.
His busy U.S. schedule — in 2015 alone, he met congressmen in April; attended a Muhammad cartoon contest in Texas in May and spoke in Silicon Valley in August — stands in contrast to his limited campaigning in the Netherlands, where security threats and controversy hamper his ability to hold public events.
Visits sometimes go the other way. King, the congressman, hosted Wilders at an event in Washington and held a joint press conference with him, but also met Wilders in the Netherlands on several occasions, he told POLITICO.
King went to Europe to investigate what he called “no-go zones” — a repeatedly debunked notion that some areas are under the control of Muslims who have forcibly excluded outsiders and imposed Sharia law. King’s description of them was also at odds with his own account of walking through the places he named: Saint Denis in Paris, Rinkeby in Stockholm, and Molenbeek in Brussels, where he was disturbed to see a street market and people in “Islamic garb”, he told POLITICO.
Ketron made a similar trip to Europe, visiting London, Brussels, Antwerp and Amsterdam to learn about “radical Islam.” According to The Tennessean, it was paid for by the head of the Tennessee Freedom Coalition — the same group that hosted Wilders in 2011. (It  still sells DVDs of the event on its website, called “Geert Wilders: “A Warning to America.”)
Ketron sponsored a bill to combat “no-go zones” in Tennessee in 2015. His worldview chimes with the rhetoric in Wilders’ speeches.
“Look at Europe’s inner cities. Visit Europe and you will see that they have come to resemble Northern Africa and the Middle East. They have become areas ruled by Islamic Sharia law,” Wilders said in Los Angeles in 2013, according to a copy of his speech. “Islam is taking over European societies,” he told a Nashville audience the following year.
(Ketron responded to a request to speak to POLITICO with a one-line statement: “Geert has taken a position to stand firm on what the Netherlands has always stood for — and I respect him for that.”)
Wilders does not have up-to-date experience of walking the streets of Europe, because he has lived in a security bubble since 2004, due to threats on his life. But to several of those who heard him speak, the police protection added dramatic force to Wilders’ arguments. Wilders himself is keenly aware of this and emphasizes his police protection in his speeches. His book is called “Marked for death”.
Trump and Wilders do not have identical views. While Trump has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin, Wilders keeps his distance from Moscow, which is widely blamed in the Netherlands for the shooting down of an airliner over eastern Ukraine in July 2014 that killed nearly 300 people, including 193 Dutch passengers.
However, they do share a connection through the Breitbart website. Wilders writes for and was  interviewed several times by Breitbart when the site was headed by Steve Bannon, now Trump’s chief stratt it is the target of “nothing more than political persecution.”
To try to sort out the issue, MEPs on the Constitutional Affairs Committee, who will make a recommendation to the entire Parliament on whether to suspend EU funding, summoned senior members of the Alliance — Roberto Fiore of Italy’s New Force and Stefan Jacobsson, who led the now-defunct Party of the Swedes — to Brussels last Thursday to make their case.
The committee hearing was often tense, with Fiore sparring with Socialist MEPs Marita Ulvskog and Ana Gomes, who accused him of holding views incompatible with the EU’s ideals.
Attempting to demonstrate that the Alliance isn’t racist, Fiore cited a visit to Syria in 2016 to meet with members of President Bashar al-Assad’s government as evidence that the group respects Muslims, Arabs and “all the people in the world.”
The hearing was halted after MEPs complained it was turning into a platform for the far-right group, to which Richter, their lawyer, responded by saying it had turned into a “medieval witch trial.”
The Alliance said in a statement released after the hearing that Fiore, Jacobsson and Richter “repudiated every single accusation of the self-proclaimed ‘democrats,’ some of whom fled the hall during the meeting.”
György Schöpflin, a center-right Hungarian member of the parliamentary committee, remembered things differently, describing the Alliance’s performance in front of the committee as “incredibly repetitive, boring and tedious.”
It isn’t clear if MEPs did enough to make the legal case for suspending the Alliance’s funding. “Not all of them were aware of the exact rules,” said Wouter Wolfs, a researcher at the University of Leuven who specializes in the funding of eurosceptic parties. “You wonder whether the hearing really helped the European Parliament in putting up a case against the [Alliance].”
Manfred Weber, the German MEP who heads the center-right European People’s Party group, said the funding should be stopped: “The EU should not be naive and hand its opponents the stick to beat it with.” He had earlier described the Alliance as “the worst right-wing extremists and neofascists around Europe.”
The Alliance’s website includes blog posts by Nick Griffin, a former MEP and ex-leader of the British National Party, whose Twitter profile describes him as a “lifelong white rights fighter.”
Griffin’s subject matter includes the video game Angry Birds containing hidden messages about “unmistakably Islamist” villains and the risks to Swedish milkmaids of being sexually assaulted by Muslim refugees. One of the “tags” displayed at the bottom of the latter page is “white genocide.”
Griffin, Fiore and Jacobsson are the co-authors of the book “Winds of Change,” released in December, which calls for “new generations of political soldiers” and is marketed elsewhere as being “a great introduction to the ideology of revolutionary nationalism.”
In the coming weeks, the Constitutional Affairs Committee will make a recommendation on whether to suspend or approve the EU funding, taking into account the opinion of “a committee of independent eminent persons,” including Parliament President Antonio Tajani.
Richter warned that if MEPs made a decision based on politics rather than the letter of the law, he would take them to the European Court of Justice.
Hungarian MEP Schöpflin wasn’t concerned, saying: “If they want to go to the courts, fine. See you in court.”
AMSTERDAM — Geert Wilders is approaching the Dutch election bolstered by the shock victory of a like-minded campaign in the United States, and with something of his worldview reflected in Donald Trump’s White House.
Trump’s order barring people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States — currently blocked by the U.S. courts — echoes Wilders’ calls for countries across the West to stop all immigration from “Islamic countries,” which he has been advocating in speeches since at least 2014.
Now, Wilders’ U.S. contacts are pushing for a meeting with Trump in the hopes that it would give the Dutchman a new platform for his outspoken challenge to the European Union from within one of its founding states. For their part, Trump supporters see Wilders’ campaign as the next step — following the U.K.’s Brexit vote and the election of Trump — of a populist revolt that is shaking up the world order.
“I have sent those messages to the inner circle and encouraged that they communicate with Mr. Wilders,” Congressman Steve King, an Iowa Republican, told POLITICO in a phone interview. “It’s important for the Trump administration and for this White House team to be engaged in an effort to restore Western civilization.”
Wilders’ Freedom Party (PVV) is on course to become the biggest in the Dutch parliament in the March 15 election, although it may struggle to take any part in government as it is shunned by the political mainstream. Wilders portrays Islam as a totalitarian ideology locked in an existential struggle with the West and his election program proposes closing all mosques and banning the Quran.
Although historically U.S. Republicans have found little sympathy among Dutch voters, Trump’s election has boosted the confidence of PVV supporters hoping for a similar upset to the status quo.
“That’s definitely made its mark on the political landscape here,” said Tim de Beer of pollster Kantar.
The PVV were early admirers of Trump’s presidential campaign. “Donald Trump talks about immigration. Elites disgusted. Citizens embrace it,” Martin Bosma, a PVV member of parliament, tweeted back in July 2015.
Wilders got a ticket to the Republican National Convention to see Trump nominated, and spoke at a pro-Trump event there alongside alt-right journalist and firebrand Milo Yiannopoulos.
The invitations came thanks to years of working the American anti-Islam lecture circuit, through which Wilders has promoted his views in right-wing circles from Silicon Valley to Texas.
Here is a breakdown of Wilders’ U.S. links and how they lead to the White House.
In July, Wilders delivered his usual message to an atypical crowd: an event called “Wake Up!” that was billed as “the most fab party at the RNC” and presented Islam as a threat to LGBT people.
Photographs of slim men wearing Trump hats — “Twinks for Trump” — hung in the background as Wilders told the crowd Europe was “collapsing” and becoming “Eurabia.”
His account gave a sense of urgency to Trump activists, the organizers said, bolstering the impression the U.S. could be next to face the dire scenario Wilders set out.
“What Geert Wilders was talking about was telling Americans what could happen if we didn’t act to address the spread of radical Islam,” said organizer Christopher Barron, a gay conservative activist.
Wilders’ ticket to the Republican National Convention came from Bill Ketron, a Tennessee state senator who once sponsored a bill to criminalize Islamic law. Ketron gave Wilders his single extra ticket, the Tennessee Republican Party told POLITICO.
The organizers of “Wake up!” heard that Wilders was coming from Pamela Geller, an activist who was also to speak at the event. Jim Hoft, the man behind the conservative Gateway Pundit blog, told POLITICO he sent Wilders the invitation.
Geller is a long-time Wilders ally. She first invited him to the U.S. in 2009 in the wake of the controversy over his 2008 film “Fitna,” which has a strong anti-Islamic message and at one point likens Islam to Nazism. She brought him to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington in February 2009, and soon after, Arizona Senator Jon Kyl screened “Fitna” at the Capitol.
Geller is at the center of a constellation of recurring names and groups linked to events Wilders has attended in the U.S. Some have given him concrete support, such as Nina Rosenwald, an heiress who founded The Gatestone Institute. (Rosenwald told POLITICO she had supported Wilders but did not give details.)
Another supporter is Daniel Pipes, who told POLITICO his Middle East Forum paid for Wilders’ lawyer as he fought hate speech charges over the years.
The David Horowitz Freedom Centre (founded to battle “the radical left and its Islamist allies”) has donated €126,000 to Wilders’ party, according to Dutch newspaper NRC.
In the early 2010s, Wilders was in the U.S. “every month or every six weeks,” said Wim Kortenoeven, a former Freedom Party lawmaker who left the party in 2012 but remains sympathetic to its aims.
The friends and cheering crowds Wilders found in the U.S. provided a respite from his life in the Netherlands as a hugely divisive political figure living under a security lockdown.
“It’s like a refuge for him,” Kortenoeven said. “Here he is a hunted man.”
When Wilders visited Tennessee in 2011, as Ketron’s hometown of Murfreesboro was embroiled in controversy over a planned mosque, he was introduced as a “world hero” and greeted with a standing ovation.
“Nashville, Tennessee  I love it here :-)” Wilders posted on Twitter from a bar last year.
His busy U.S. schedule — in 2015 alone, he met congressmen in April; attended a Muhammad cartoon contest in Texas in May and spoke in Silicon Valley in August — stands in contrast to his limited campaigning in the Netherlands, where security threats and controversy hamper his ability to hold public events.
Visits sometimes go the other way. King, the congressman, hosted Wilders at an event in Washington and held a joint press conference with him, but also met Wilders in the Netherlands on several occasions, he told POLITICO.
King went to Europe to investigate what he called “no-go zones” — a repeatedly debunked notion that some areas are under the control of Muslims who have forcibly excluded outsiders and imposed Sharia law. King’s description of them was also at odds with his own account of walking through the places he named: Saint Denis in Paris, Rinkeby in Stockholm, and Molenbeek in Brussels, where he was disturbed to see a street market and people in “Islamic garb”, he told POLITICO.
Ketron made a similar trip to Europe, visiting London, Brussels, Antwerp and Amsterdam to learn about “radical Islam.” According to The Tennessean, it was paid for by the head of the Tennessee Freedom Coalition — the same group that hosted Wilders in 2011. (It  still sells DVDs of the event on its website, called “Geert Wilders: “A Warning to America.”)
Ketron sponsored a bill to combat “no-go zones” in Tennessee in 2015. His worldview chimes with the rhetoric in Wilders’ speeches.
“Look at Europe’s inner cities. Visit Europe and you will see that they have come to resemble Northern Africa and the Middle East. They have become areas ruled by Islamic Sharia law,” Wilders said in Los Angeles in 2013, according to a copy of his speech. “Islam is taking over European societies,” he told a Nashville audience the following year.
(Ketron responded to a request to speak to POLITICO with a one-line statement: “Geert has taken a position to stand firm on what the Netherlands has always stood for — and I respect him for that.”)
Wilders does not have up-to-date experience of walking the streets of Europe, because he has lived in a security bubble since 2004, due to threats on his life. But to several of those who heard him speak, the police protection added dramatic force to Wilders’ arguments. Wilders himself is keenly aware of this and emphasizes his police protection in his speeches. His book is called “Marked for death”.
Trump and Wilders do not have identical views. While Trump has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin, Wilders keeps his distance from Moscow, which is widely blamed in the Netherlands for the shooting down of an airliner over eastern Ukraine in July 2014 that killed nearly 300 people, including 193 Dutch passengers.
However, they do share a connection through the Breitbart website. Wilders writes for and was  interviewed several times by Breitbart when the site was headed by Steve Bannon, now Trump’s chief strategist in the White House.
Bannon and Wilders are also linked by Avi Davis, whom Bannon knew and praised as a “friend” to Breitbart News in a 2015 obituary. Davis was founder and president of the American Freedom Alliance and organized the 2009 dinner at which the group celebrated Wilders as a hero of conscience. Neither camp responded to questions on whether Wilders and Bannon know each other.
What is clear is that Wilders’ network is hopeful the success of Trump will play out in similar victories in Europe.
“Everyone is finally breathing freely after eight nightmarish years,” Nina Rosenwald told POLITICO in an email. She added she would be happy to support Wilders “in any way legally permissible.”
Pamela Geller said “all those who believe in the freedom of speech” would do the same. “Both the election of Trump and the soon-to-be election of Wilders are indications that free people are rising up against the elites,” she said.
Angela Merkel faces numerous challenges in her reelection bid this year, whether it is furies on her right riled up by the waves of migrants or a revived left energized by the new man in town, Martin Schulz.
But perhaps the biggest hurdle in her way is fatigue — not hers necessarily but voters’ fatigue with her.
Few politicians, at least those who face democratic voters, survive beyond a 10-year sell-by date. Merkel came into office on November 22, 2005, won her third term eight years in and has been in office for precisely 11 years, 2 months and 23 days. For a growing chunk of Germany’s adult population, “Mutti” is the only leader they know. And familiarity in politics tends not to make hearts grow fonder.
In the longevity stakes, Merkel has already outlasted titans of European politics such as Britain’s Tony Blair, France’s Charles de Gaulle, the Netherlands’ Willem Drees and Portugal’s Aníbal Cavaco Silva, all of whom stayed in power for a decade but no more.
If she fends off the Social Democrats and Schulz in September, the German chancellor will join a select group that ducked scandal, the wrath of voters and the grim reaper. At the start of her next term she’ll have been in power for 11 years, 10 months and 2 days.
Here are the more notable recent(ish) members of that club who’ve lasted even longer than Merkel, and visually a snapshot of what all that time in power did to them. (To repeat, dictators don’t count — neither do ceremonial roles or split terms.)
The founding father of an independent Senegal achieved a rare feat in African politics — he retired gracefully from the top job. A poet and a scholar when not being a politician, he was the first black African to join elite French literary institute the Académie française.
What did him in: He’d had enough. After reinstating the office of prime minister, he handed power to the holder of that post, Abdou Diouf.
What he did next: Retired to France to write (a memoir and more poetry). Died in December 2001.
Quote: “I have always taken care to put an idea or emotion behind my words. I have made it a habit to be suspicious of the mere music of words.”
“A very adequate mayor in Luxembourg” was how Ted Malloch, the self-appointed pick to be the U.S. ambassador to the EU, described Juncker. He was a touch more important than that, ruling the roost in the Grand Duchy for the best part of two decades, and was also finance minister for most of that time.
What did him in: Scandal, but not Luxleaks. (That came later.) It was Juncker’s alleged failure to properly control the intelligence service, which was said to have carried out illegal wiretaps. He always denied any wrongdoing.
What he did next: We’ve no idea. (Joking: he’s been president of the European Commission since November 2014.)
Quote: “Common sense is distributed very unequally in Europe.”
If Merkel wins a fourth term in the election this fall and serves it in full, she will match her former mentor’s record of 16 years in office.
What did him in: Scandal — and Merkel. What would Europe look like without the Schreiber Affair, a campaign finance scandal inside the Christian Democrats? It finished off Kohl’s career, brought down his likely successor Wolfgang Schäuble and opened the door for Merkel.
What he did next: Stayed in the Bundestag until the 2002 election.
Quote: “If a chancellor is trying to push something through, he must be a man of power … In one case — the euro — I was like a dictator.”
Was chancellor when military occupation of West Germany ended in 1952 and when West Germany was recognized internationally as an independent nation in 1955. Under his leadership, West Germany joined NATO that same year and the European Economic Community in 1957.
What did him in: Scandal. In late 1962, Der Spiegel published an article claiming bribery in favor of a construction firm that built military facilities. Adenauer stayed on for another year but never fully recovered.
What he did next: Remained as chairman of the Christian Democratic Union until 1966. Died in 1967.
Quote: “We all live under the same sky, but we don’t all have the same horizon.”
It was Mitterrand who signed the Treaty of Maastricht in 1991 that created the European Union. His lesser-known accomplishments include appointing the country’s first female prime minister (Edith Cresson), abolishing the death penalty in France and being the first French politician to win an election twice by popular vote.
What did him in: Ill health. Mitterrand had cancer and had seen his party lose heavily in parliamentary elections two years earlier. He did not stand in the 1995 presidential election.
What he did next: Died in 1996, the year after he completed his final term.
Quote: “She [Margaret Thatcher] has the eyes of Caligula but the mouth of Marilyn Monroe.”
Mintoff, who lived to the ripe age of 96, was responsible for the transformation of Malta from a British colony to an independent republic. This despite (or perhaps because of) beefs with the British, Libya, NATO and the Roman Catholic Church during his time in power.
What did him in: Unrest. Mintoff had threatened to retire for some time but delayed his departure for another battle, this time with the church, which he banned from charging for its private schools. When the church pleaded poverty, a compromise on funding was agreed and Mintoff took a small step back.
What he did next: Successfully contested three more elections, retiring from frontline politics in 1998 (but not before bringing down his own party’s government). Died in 2012.
Quote: “French and German workers don’t have more than two meatballs. However, they have greater eagerness, willpower and a greater sense of responsibility than you have.”
Brought Spain into the European Economic Community in 1986. He also helped consolidate the country’s fledgling democracy, initially as opposition leader in the first free elections after the Franco years, then as prime minister.
What did him in: Disgruntlement. González had been losing support for some time when he headed into elections in 1996, with the opposition People’s Party accusing him of leading the country to financial ruin. The tactic worked and José María Aznar took over as prime minister.
What he did next: Resigned as leader of the Socialist Party in 1997 but stayed as a member of parliament until 2004.
Quote: “The loneliness of power consists in knowing that this is always the last phone that rings and that I have to decide. I cannot move the decision to a higher instance.”
FDR’s 12 years in charge won’t be beaten by an American president unless Donald Trump barricades himself in the Oval Office. Trump has been branded the Republicans’ FDR — make of that what you will.
What did him in: Death.
What he did next: Nothing.
Quote: “This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny.”
Chirac’s second term in the Élysée Palace was shorter than his first after French voters backed a referendum to change the presidential term of office from seven to five years.
What did him in: Ill health. Chirac suffered a minor stroke thegist in the White House.
Bannon and Wilders are also linked by Avi Davis, whom Bannon knew and praised as a “friend” to Breitbart News in a 2015 obituary. Davis was founder and president of the American Freedom Alliance and organized the 2009 dinner at which the group celebrated Wilders as a hero of conscience. Neither camp responded to questions on whether Wilders and Bannon know each other.
What is clear is that Wilders’ network is hopeful the success of Trump will play out in similar victories in Europe.
“Everyone is finally breathing freely after eight nightmarish years,” Nina Rosenwald told POLITICO in an email. She added she would be happy to support Wilders “in any way legally permissible.”
Pamela Geller said “all those who believe in the freedom of speech” would do the same. “Both the election of Trump and the soon-to-be election of Wilders are indications that free people are rising up against the elites,” she said.
Angela Merkel faces numerous challenges in her reelection bid this year, whether it is furies on her right riled up by the waves of migrants or a revived left energized by the new man in town, Martin Schulz.
But perhaps the biggest hurdle in her way is fatigue — not hers necessarily but voters’ fatigue with her.
Few politicians, at least those who face democratic voters, survive beyond a 10-year sell-by date. Merkel came into office on November 22, 2005, won her third term eight years in and has been in office for precisely 11 years, 2 months and 23 days. For a growing chunk of Germany’s adult population, “Mutti” is the only leader they know. And familiarity in politics tends not to make hearts grow fonder.
In the longevity stakes, Merkel has already outlasted titans of European politics such as Britain’s Tony Blair, France’s Charles de Gaulle, the Netherlands’ Willem Drees and Portugal’s Aníbal Cavaco Silva, all of whom stayed in power for a decade but no more.
If she fends off the Social Democrats and Schulz in September, the German chancellor will join a select group that ducked scandal, the wrath of voters and the grim reaper. At the start of her next term she’ll have been in power for 11 years, 10 months and 2 days.
Here are the more notable recent(ish) members of that club who’ve lasted even longer than Merkel, and visually a snapshot of what all that time in power did to them. (To repeat, dictators don’t count — neither do ceremonial roles or split terms.)
The founding father of an independent Senegal achieved a rare feat in African politics — he retired gracefully from the top job. A poet and a scholar when not being a politician, he was the first black African to join elite French literary institute the Académie française.
What did him in: He’d had enough. After reinstating the office of prime minister, he handed power to the holder of that post, Abdou Diouf.
What he did next: Retired to France to write (a memoir and more poetry). Died in December 2001.
Quote: “I have always taken care to put an idea or emotion behind my words. I have made it a habit to be suspicious of the mere music of words.”
“A very adequate mayor in Luxembourg” was how Ted Malloch, the self-appointed pick to be the U.S. ambassador to the EU, described Juncker. He was a touch more important than that, ruling the roost in the Grand Duchy for the best part of two decades, and was also finance minister for most of that time.
What did him in: Scandal, but not Luxleaks. (That came later.) It was Juncker’s alleged failure to properly control the intelligence service, which was said to have carried out illegal wiretaps. He always denied any wrongdoing.
What he did next: We’ve no idea. (Joking: he’s been president of the European Commission since November 2014.)
Quote: “Common sense is distributed very unequally in Europe.”
If Merkel wins a fourth term in the election this fall and serves it in full, she will match her former mentor’s record of 16 years in office.
What did him in: Scandal — and Merkel. What would Europe look like without the Schreiber Affair, a campaign finance scandal inside the Christian Democrats? It finished off Kohl’s career, brought down his likely successor Wolfgang Schäuble and opened the door for Merkel.
What he did next: Stayed in the Bundestag until the 2002 election.
Quote: “If a chancellor is trying to push something through, he must be a man of power … In one case — the euro — I was like a dictator.”
Was chancellor when military occupation of West Germany ended in 1952 and when West Germany was recognized internationally as an independent nation in 1955. Under his leadership, West Germany joined NATO that same year and the European Economic Community in 1957.
What did him in: Scandal. In late 1962, Der Spiegel published an article claiming bribery in favor of a construction firm that built military facilities. Adenauer stayed on for another year but never fully recovered.
What he did next: Remained as chairman of the Christian Democratic Union until 1966. Died in 1967.
Quote: “We all live under the same sky, but we don’t all have the same horizon.”
It was Mitterrand who signed the Treaty of Maastricht in 1991 that created the European Union. His lesser-known accomplishments include appointing the country’s first female prime minister (Edith Cresson), abolishing the death penalty in France and being the first French politician to win an election twice by popular vote.
What did him in: Ill health. Mitterrand had cancer and had seen his party lose heavily in parliamentary elections two years earlier. He did not stand in the 1995 presidential election.
What he did next: Died in 1996, the year after he completed his final term.
Quote: “She [Margaret Thatcher] has the eyes of Caligula but the mouth of Marilyn Monroe.”
Mintoff, who lived to the ripe age of 96, was responsible for the transformation of Malta from a British colony to an independent republic. This despite (or perhaps because of) beefs with the British, Libya, NATO and the Roman Catholic Church during his time in power.
What did him in: Unrest. Mintoff had threatened to retire for some time but delayed his departure for another battle, this time with the church, which he banned from charging for its private schools. When the church pleaded poverty, a compromise on funding was agreed and Mintoff took a small step back.
What he did next: Successfully contested three more elections, retiring from frontline politics in 1998 (but not before bringing down his own party’s government). Died in 2012.
Quote: “French and German workers don’t have more than two meatballs. However, they have greater eagerness, willpower and a greater sense of responsibility than you have.”
Brought Spain into the European Economic Community in 1986. He also helped consolidate the country’s fledgling democracy, initially as opposition leader in the first free elections after the Franco years, then as prime minister.
What did him in: Disgruntlement. González had been losing support for some time when he headed into elections in 1996, with the opposition People’s Party accusing him of leading the country to financial ruin. The tactic worked and José María Aznar took over as prime minister.
What he did next: Resigned as leader of the Socialist Party in 1997 but stayed as a member of parliament until 2004.
Quote: “The loneliness of power consists in knowing that this is always the last phone that rings and that I have to decide. I cannot move the decision to a higher instance.”
FDR’s 12 years in charge won’t be beaten by an American president unless Donald Trump barricades himself in the Oval Office. Trump has been branded the Republicans’ FDR — make of that what you will.
What did him in: Death.
What he did next: Nothing.
Quote: “This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny.”
Chirac’s second term in the Élysée Palace was shorter than his first after French voters backed a referendum to change the presidential term of office from seven to five years.
What did him in: Ill health. Chirac suffered a minor stroke the year he left the Élysée. But he was also unpopular, his second term having been marred by civil unrest, with riots in the suburbs of Paris and other cities over discrimination and high youth unemployment.
What he did next: Wrote his memoirs, in which he described Nicolas Sarkozy as “irritable, rash, impetuous, disloyal, ungrateful, and un-French.”
Quote: “When I was elected … I was 32, and I joined the government right away. Then I just stayed forever … Governments changed, I stayed along with the furniture.”
Thatcher will have been outlasted by Merkel by some distance if the chancellor wins another term this fall, but a list without the Iron Lady feels somehow incomplete (and yes, the Netherlands’ Ruud Lubbers outlasted Thatcher too). Merkel can’t escape Thatcher comparisons, and you can see why; no European leader has asserted her political ideology as successfully as the chancellor.
What did her in: Her fellow Tories. The unpopular Poll Tax and disputes over Europe had eroded Thatcher’s power and she faced a leadership challenge from Michael Heseltine. She called in members of her cabinet one by one to seek their support. It didn’t work and she resigned.
What she did next: Took a seat in the House of Lords as Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven. Died in 2013.
Quote: “I don’t mind how much my ministers talk, as long as they do what I say.”
Germany’s Christian Democrats hope to put a halt to Martin Schulz’s rapid rise in the polls by dishing the dirt on his time as president of the European Parliament.
MEPs from Angela Merkel’s center-right party have compiled a dossier, seen by POLITICO, on Schulz, who left the Parliament on February 10 to become the Social Democrats’ candidate for chancellor. He’s overseen a remarkable reversal in his party’s fortunes, with some polls putting the SPD ahead of the CDU.
The nine-page document, sent out by Herbert Reul, the head of the German conservative delegation in the Parliament, contains allegations that Schulz did favors to his aides by promoting them into cushy jobs (much of the material cites a POLITICO article from May 2016 on the steep career paths of some of Schulz’s long time associates).
The paper, which contains a number of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors, also accuses Schulz of combining his duties as the president of the assembly with campaigning to be president of the European Commission in 2014 on behalf of the European Socialists — the so-called Spitzenkandidaten process. It lists areas where conservatives could attack Schulz for allegedly not acting in German interests.
The dossier says Schulz “lobbied the Commission president to be lenient with Spain and Portugal for its breaches of eurozone budget rules” last year and lists positive quotes from him on the idea of eurozone countries issuing common government debt.
It also brings up a quote from 2014 in which Schulz called for “public space to remain neutral (of religious symbols).” While Merkel, under pressure from the right of her party, recently called for a ban on the burqa, the Reul paper interprets Schulz’s call for neutrality as a proposed ban on “religious symbols in the public space, such as crucifixes in schools.”
Potentially more damaging for Schulz is a case involving an aide, Markus Engels. Der Spiegel reported that Engels, a former Parliament official who now heads the SPD’s election campaign, spent more working time in Berlin than in Brussels when he was a Parliament spokesperson but still got paid a Brussels salary plus extra money for working abroad.
The SPD’s secretary general Katarina Barley criticized the Reul dossier as a “dirt campaign.” Ralf Stegner, a deputy chairman of the party, told Bild am Sonntag that the CDU was “spreading baseless rumors in the hope that something will stick.”
Reul said the dossier was an “updated version” of a report he had commissioned to stop Schulz from getting another term at the helm of the Parliament but said it was still useful as many German voters were unawaree year he left the Élysée. But he was also unpopular, his second term having been marred by civil unrest, with riots in the suburbs of Paris and other cities over discrimination and high youth unemployment.
What he did next: Wrote his memoirs, in which he described Nicolas Sarkozy as “irritable, rash, impetuous, disloyal, ungrateful, and un-French.”
Quote: “When I was elected … I was 32, and I joined the government right away. Then I just stayed forever … Governments changed, I stayed along with the furniture.”
Thatcher will have been outlasted by Merkel by some distance if the chancellor wins another term this fall, but a list without the Iron Lady feels somehow incomplete (and yes, the Netherlands’ Ruud Lubbers outlasted Thatcher too). Merkel can’t escape Thatcher comparisons, and you can see why; no European leader has asserted her political ideology as successfully as the chancellor.
What did her in: Her fellow Tories. The unpopular Poll Tax and disputes over Europe had eroded Thatcher’s power and she faced a leadership challenge from Michael Heseltine. She called in members of her cabinet one by one to seek their support. It didn’t work and she resigned.
What she did next: Took a seat in the House of Lords as Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven. Died in 2013.
Quote: “I don’t mind how much my ministers talk, as long as they do what I say.”
Germany’s Christian Democrats hope to put a halt to Martin Schulz’s rapid rise in the polls by dishing the dirt on his time as president of the European Parliament.
MEPs from Angela Merkel’s center-right party have compiled a dossier, seen by POLITICO, on Schulz, who left the Parliament on February 10 to become the Social Democrats’ candidate for chancellor. He’s overseen a remarkable reversal in his party’s fortunes, with some polls putting the SPD ahead of the CDU.
The nine-page document, sent out by Herbert Reul, the head of the German conservative delegation in the Parliament, contains allegations that Schulz did favors to his aides by promoting them into cushy jobs (much of the material cites a POLITICO article from May 2016 on the steep career paths of some of Schulz’s long time associates).
The paper, which contains a number of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors, also accuses Schulz of combining his duties as the president of the assembly with campaigning to be president of the European Commission in 2014 on behalf of the European Socialists — the so-called Spitzenkandidaten process. It lists areas where conservatives could attack Schulz for allegedly not acting in German interests.
The dossier says Schulz “lobbied the Commission president to be lenient with Spain and Portugal for its breaches of eurozone budget rules” last year and lists positive quotes from him on the idea of eurozone countries issuing common government debt.
It also brings up a quote from 2014 in which Schulz called for “public space to remain neutral (of religious symbols).” While Merkel, under pressure from the right of her party, recently called for a ban on the burqa, the Reul paper interprets Schulz’s call for neutrality as a proposed ban on “religious symbols in the public space, such as crucifixes in schools.”
Potentially more damaging for Schulz is a case involving an aide, Markus Engels. Der Spiegel reported that Engels, a former Parliament official who now heads the SPD’s election campaign, spent more working time in Berlin than in Brussels when he was a Parliament spokesperson but still got paid a Brussels salary plus extra money for working abroad.
The SPD’s secretary general Katarina Barley criticized the Reul dossier as a “dirt campaign.” Ralf Stegner, a deputy chairman of the party, told Bild am Sonntag that the CDU was “spreading baseless rumors in the hope that something will stick.”
Reul said the dossier was an “updated version” of a report he had commissioned to stop Schulz from getting another term at the helm of the Parliament but said it was still useful as many German voters were unaware of Schulz’s past.
He’s not the only CDU lawmaker to have criticized Schulz. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble said in an interview with Spiegel that Schulz was copying the rhetoric of U.S. President Donald Trump.
Other voices within the CDU ranks have been kinder. European commissioner Günther Oettinger said he had always found Schulz to be “fair and easygoing.” Merkel, in a closed-door party meeting on Sunday, said the CDU was a “party open to competition.”
The Romanian parliament unanimously voted on Monday to hold a referendum on anti-corruption reforms after two weeks of protests forced the government to withdraw a decree that, according to critics, would have weakened its anti-graft laws, AFP reported.
The mass protests that erupted across Romania almost immediately after the decree was signed into law have been the biggest since the end of communism in 1989. The protests continued even after the government withdrew the decree on February 4, prompting the justice minister to resign.
The government has yet to say when the referendum will be held, and what specifically it will ask Romanians to decide.
The referendum vote was proposed by the right-wing President Klaus Iohannis, who has been critical of the left-wing government that came to power in December last year.
An Adolf Hitler lookalike was arrested in Austria and charged with glorifying the Nazi era, local officials said Monday, according to the BBC.
The man, aged 25, who had been spotted near the house in Braunau am Inn in which Hitler was born, was said to be calling himself Harald Hitler and sporting a side-parting and distinctive mustache.
“The young man knows exactly what he is doing,” a police spokesman told the BBC, adding that he had also been spotted in Vienna and Graz. He was also seen in a local bookstore browsing through magazines about World War II.
Glorifying the Nazi era is a crime in Austria.
The Austrian authorities announced last October that the house in which Hitler was born is to be demolished to stop it becoming a “pilgrimage and memorial” for neo-Nazis.
Under the plan, only the foundations of the house in Braunau would remain, and a new building put up on the land which would be used for charitable or administrative purposes.
The building has been empty since 2011 when a dispute broke out between the Austrian government and the house’s owner, who refused to sell the property.
PARIS — Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux called for calm Monday after riots over an alleged police rape engulfed suburbs around France, triggering fears of a violent contagion three months before the presidential election.
Police arrested 37 people late Sunday in the latest night of rioting over the arrest of Theo, a 22-year-old black man who was hospitalized with injuries from being sodomized with a police baton following his arrest on February 2.
The riots, which started in the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois and quickly spread to Nantes, Lille, Marseille and other cities, carried echoes of riots that rocked France in 2005. Successive governments have spent billions of euros sprucing up immigrant-heavy housing projects, but many local youths feel the underlying causes of their anger — notably hiring discrimination and police abuse  — remain unaddressed more than a decade later.
Politically, the thorny issues of the banlieues (suburbs), which have to do with deep-seated feelings of alienation among youths of immigrant origin, remain as divisive as ever. In the days following initial reports of Theo’s violent arrest, presidential candidates quickly took sides, with far-right leader Marine Le Pen voicing her support for police and blaming the government for failing to crack down harder on rioters.
Meanwhile President François Hollande’s Socialist government is trying to head off escalation by showing support for the victim.
“I am calling for calm,” said Le Roux. “In a democracy, expressing anger, a demand or giving an opinion is totally legitimate. But smashing things, burning other people’s pro of Schulz’s past.
He’s not the only CDU lawmaker to have criticized Schulz. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble said in an interview with Spiegel that Schulz was copying the rhetoric of U.S. President Donald Trump.
Other voices within the CDU ranks have been kinder. European commissioner Günther Oettinger said he had always found Schulz to be “fair and easygoing.” Merkel, in a closed-door party meeting on Sunday, said the CDU was a “party open to competition.”
The Romanian parliament unanimously voted on Monday to hold a referendum on anti-corruption reforms after two weeks of protests forced the government to withdraw a decree that, according to critics, would have weakened its anti-graft laws, AFP reported.
The mass protests that erupted across Romania almost immediately after the decree was signed into law have been the biggest since the end of communism in 1989. The protests continued even after the government withdrew the decree on February 4, prompting the justice minister to resign.
The government has yet to say when the referendum will be held, and what specifically it will ask Romanians to decide.
The referendum vote was proposed by the right-wing President Klaus Iohannis, who has been critical of the left-wing government that came to power in December last year.
An Adolf Hitler lookalike was arrested in Austria and charged with glorifying the Nazi era, local officials said Monday, according to the BBC.
The man, aged 25, who had been spotted near the house in Braunau am Inn in which Hitler was born, was said to be calling himself Harald Hitler and sporting a side-parting and distinctive mustache.
“The young man knows exactly what he is doing,” a police spokesman told the BBC, adding that he had also been spotted in Vienna and Graz. He was also seen in a local bookstore browsing through magazines about World War II.
Glorifying the Nazi era is a crime in Austria.
The Austrian authorities announced last October that the house in which Hitler was born is to be demolished to stop it becoming a “pilgrimage and memorial” for neo-Nazis.
Under the plan, only the foundations of the house in Braunau would remain, and a new building put up on the land which would be used for charitable or administrative purposes.
The building has been empty since 2011 when a dispute broke out between the Austrian government and the house’s owner, who refused to sell the property.
PARIS — Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux called for calm Monday after riots over an alleged police rape engulfed suburbs around France, triggering fears of a violent contagion three months before the presidential election.
Police arrested 37 people late Sunday in the latest night of rioting over the arrest of Theo, a 22-year-old black man who was hospitalized with injuries from being sodomized with a police baton following his arrest on February 2.
The riots, which started in the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois and quickly spread to Nantes, Lille, Marseille and other cities, carried echoes of riots that rocked France in 2005. Successive governments have spent billions of euros sprucing up immigrant-heavy housing projects, but many local youths feel the underlying causes of their anger — notably hiring discrimination and police abuse  — remain unaddressed more than a decade later.
Politically, the thorny issues of the banlieues (suburbs), which have to do with deep-seated feelings of alienation among youths of immigrant origin, remain as divisive as ever. In the days following initial reports of Theo’s violent arrest, presidential candidates quickly took sides, with far-right leader Marine Le Pen voicing her support for police and blaming the government for failing to crack down harder on rioters.
Meanwhile President François Hollande’s Socialist government is trying to head off escalation by showing support for the victim.
“I am calling for calm,” said Le Roux. “In a democracy, expressing anger, a demand or giving an opinion is totally legitimate. But smashing things, burning other people’s property, destroying it, that is the behavior of rabble-rousers that have nothing to do with the acts they pretend to denounce.”
Le Roux added that he would be “inflexible” in dealing both with rioters and any police action that happened outside “the framework of the law, the framework of professional ethics.”
Images of burning cars and hooded youths clashing with police over the past week prompted comparisons with the violence that swept France in 2005, when then President Jacques Chirac was forced to call a national state of emergency due to nightly pitched battles between rioters and police. Dozens of public buildings and hundreds of cars were torched in riots that set the stage for Nicolas Sarkozy’s rise to power on a law-and-order platform.
The latest riots are on a much smaller scale, but just like in 2005 they stem from outrage over police brutality. This has frequently proved to be an explosive catalyst for rioting in immigrant-heavy suburbs where relations between police and young locals are tense at best.
Now, authorities fear escalation as outrage spreads around the country and details of an investigation challenge Theo’s original testimony.
Shortly after surveillance video of Theo’s arrest was released, all four officers involved were placed under formal investigation, one of them for rape and the three others for assault. Theo, who sustained a 10 centimeter anal tear from the incident, told BFMTV the officer had taken his baton and “kicked it into [his] buttocks.”
“I was not myself,” added Theo from his hospital bed. “I thought I was going to die.” (Being placed under formal investigation is not the same as being formally charged with a crime, but is a big step in that direction.)
But on February 9, the IGPN internal police investigation unit declared that use of the baton had been “an accident,” according to RTL radio, which obtained an initial version of the report. “At the end of [the police officer’s] detention, the IGPN did indeed note … the obviously non-intentional nature of the officer’s gesture.”
The report could force an investigating magistrate in charge of the case to downgrade the level of accusations against the officers. Any suggestion that police will not face serious criminal pursuits over the incident is likely to trigger further protests, as well as possible riots.
Presidential candidates, eager to move away from a series of scandals, quickly seized on the riots and controversy over Theo’s arrest, with Le Pen standing out for her rapid defense of the police.
Politicians from the conservative Les Républicains (LR) party, which supports Fillon, called for “exemplary penalties” against any officers found guilty of misdeeds. Bruno Beschizza, the LR mayor of the town where the arrest happened, condemned what he called “extremely serious” acts.
Left-wing presidential contender Benoît Hamon denounced what he called “unacceptable violence” by the police, while Hollande paid a visit to Theo in hospital.
But Le Pen, who is seen reaching the final round of the election but being knocked out by either Fillon or Macron, took the opposite tack. “My principle is to first support the forces of police and gendarmes, except if their guilt is demonstrated,” she told LCI TV.
“We don’t know what the context of this arrest was, so going off images like this is fairly dangerous,” she added.
A televised election debate in the Netherlands has been canceled after the leaders of the two parties leading in opinion polls backed out, local media reported Sunday evening.
The far-right Freedom Party’s Geert Wilders and Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) decided not to participate in the February 26 debate, accusing broadcaster RTL of not sticking to an agreement to host just four parties and instead inviting five. The broadcaster had asked Christian-Democrat CDA, liberal D66 and the Greens to participate, stating it was unable to whittle the list down further due to negligible differences iperty, destroying it, that is the behavior of rabble-rousers that have nothing to do with the acts they pretend to denounce.”
Le Roux added that he would be “inflexible” in dealing both with rioters and any police action that happened outside “the framework of the law, the framework of professional ethics.”
Images of burning cars and hooded youths clashing with police over the past week prompted comparisons with the violence that swept France in 2005, when then President Jacques Chirac was forced to call a national state of emergency due to nightly pitched battles between rioters and police. Dozens of public buildings and hundreds of cars were torched in riots that set the stage for Nicolas Sarkozy’s rise to power on a law-and-order platform.
The latest riots are on a much smaller scale, but just like in 2005 they stem from outrage over police brutality. This has frequently proved to be an explosive catalyst for rioting in immigrant-heavy suburbs where relations between police and young locals are tense at best.
Now, authorities fear escalation as outrage spreads around the country and details of an investigation challenge Theo’s original testimony.
Shortly after surveillance video of Theo’s arrest was released, all four officers involved were placed under formal investigation, one of them for rape and the three others for assault. Theo, who sustained a 10 centimeter anal tear from the incident, told BFMTV the officer had taken his baton and “kicked it into [his] buttocks.”
“I was not myself,” added Theo from his hospital bed. “I thought I was going to die.” (Being placed under formal investigation is not the same as being formally charged with a crime, but is a big step in that direction.)
But on February 9, the IGPN internal police investigation unit declared that use of the baton had been “an accident,” according to RTL radio, which obtained an initial version of the report. “At the end of [the police officer’s] detention, the IGPN did indeed note … the obviously non-intentional nature of the officer’s gesture.”
The report could force an investigating magistrate in charge of the case to downgrade the level of accusations against the officers. Any suggestion that police will not face serious criminal pursuits over the incident is likely to trigger further protests, as well as possible riots.
Presidential candidates, eager to move away from a series of scandals, quickly seized on the riots and controversy over Theo’s arrest, with Le Pen standing out for her rapid defense of the police.
Politicians from the conservative Les Républicains (LR) party, which supports Fillon, called for “exemplary penalties” against any officers found guilty of misdeeds. Bruno Beschizza, the LR mayor of the town where the arrest happened, condemned what he called “extremely serious” acts.
Left-wing presidential contender Benoît Hamon denounced what he called “unacceptable violence” by the police, while Hollande paid a visit to Theo in hospital.
But Le Pen, who is seen reaching the final round of the election but being knocked out by either Fillon or Macron, took the opposite tack. “My principle is to first support the forces of police and gendarmes, except if their guilt is demonstrated,” she told LCI TV.
“We don’t know what the context of this arrest was, so going off images like this is fairly dangerous,” she added.
A televised election debate in the Netherlands has been canceled after the leaders of the two parties leading in opinion polls backed out, local media reported Sunday evening.
The far-right Freedom Party’s Geert Wilders and Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the liberal People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) decided not to participate in the February 26 debate, accusing broadcaster RTL of not sticking to an agreement to host just four parties and instead inviting five. The broadcaster had asked Christian-Democrat CDA, liberal D66 and the Greens to participate, stating it was unable to whittle the list down further due to negligible differences in the opinion polls of the three parties.
RTL canceled the event because “it would not be a debate between the most important parties.” It would have been the first head-to-head in the run-up to the March 15 parliamentary election.
An opinion poll published Sunday showed Wilders’ PVV would get the most votes if elections were held now, winning 30 seats in the 150-seat parliament, up from 15 seats it got after the 2012 election. Rutte’s VVD was expected to win 24 seats, down from 41 seats it has now.
Martin Schulz’s candidacy in Germany’s September federal election has encouraged those who stayed home in the Bundestag poll four years ago to vote, Der Spiegel reported Monday.
According to an Insa-Opinionstrend survey, one in five current supporters of Schulz’s Social Democrats (SPD) didn’t vote in the 2013 election, but intended to do so in 2017.
Schulz’s candidacy has boosted the SPD’s popularity, with the party hitting its highest approval rating since 2013 earlier this month.
SPD membership has also spiked since Schulz, a former European Parliament president, was chosen as the party’s candidate for the chancellorship.
More than 25 percent of British employers say their staff from other EU nations have considered leaving the U.K. after the country voted to leave the bloc in June.
Businesses that rely on EU migrant workers are struggling to fill vacancies, a survey among more than 1,000 employers by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) showed, Reuters reported Monday.
Fears of an employee Brexodus were particularly high in the education and health care sectors.
Gerwyn Davies, CIPD’s labor market adviser, said the data showed the number of non-U.K. EU nationals working in Britain grew more slowly in the three months to September than before the referendum in June. He added that the development creates “significant recruitment challenges.”
The U.K. government has not yet made clear what visa restrictions it will impose on EU migrants after Brexit.
U.S. President Donald Trump, frustrated over his administration’s rocky start, is complaining to friends and allies about some of his most senior aides — leading to questions about whether he is mulling an early staff shake-up.
Trump has told several people that he is particularly displeased with national security adviser Michael Flynn over reports that he had top-secret discussions with Russian officials about and lied about it. The president, who spent part of the weekend dealing with the Flynn controversy, has been alarmed by reports from top aides that they don’t trust Flynn. “He thinks he’s a problem,” said one person familiar with the president’s thinking. “I would be worried if I was General Flynn.”
Yet Trump’s concern goes beyond his embattled national security adviser, according to conversations with more than a dozen people who have spoken to Trump or his top aides. He has mused aloud about press secretary Sean Spicer, asking specific questions to confidants about how they think he’s doing behind the podium. During conversations with Spicer, the president has occasionally expressed unhappiness with how his press secretary is talking about some matters — sometimes pointing out even small things he’s doing that he doesn’t like.
Others who’ve talked with the president have begun to wonder about the future of Chief of Staff Reince Priebus. Several Trump campaign aides have begun to draft lists of possible Priebus replacements, with senior White House aides Kellyanne Conway and Rick Dearborn and lobbyist David Urban among those mentioned. Gary Cohn, a Trump economic adviser who is close with senior adviser Jared Kushner, has also been the subject of chatter.
For now, Priebus remains in control as chief of staff. He was heavily involved in adviser Stephen Miller’s preparation for appearances on Sunday morning talk shows, which drew praise from the president.
If there is a single issue where the president feels his aides have let him down, it was the controversial executive order on immigration. The president has complained to at least one person about “how his people didn’t give him good advice” on rolling out the travel ban and that he should have waited to sign it instead of “rushing it like they wanted me to.” Trump has also wondered why he didn’t have a legal team in place to defend it from challenges.
The discussions come at a tense time for the Trump White House, which has endured a tumultuous start. The president, who can be hard on his staff, is known for orchestrating shake-ups when things aren’t going right. His campaign had several leadership changes, and such decisions, such as his late-summer elevation of Conway and Stephen Bannon, are often made by gut.
The White House did not respond to requests for comment.
While Trump is unlikely to make any immediate staff moves, senior administration officials say, he has ramped up his contact with people he trusts outside the White House and has expressed concerns about how things are going. The president is turning to longtime New York friends like investor Stephen Schwarzman for advice and is relying more on Cohn, who worked at Goldman Sachs before joining the Trump team.
“He only asks you a lot of questions when he’s unhappy,” one person who recently talked to Trump and knows him well said. “If he thinks things are going well, he just tells you how well it’s going.”
“There will definitely be a change by the end of the summer, if not sooner,” this person added.
This weekend, Trump had at a 30-minute meeting at his Mar-a-Lago resort with Chris Ruddy, a longtime friend who is chief executive of Newsmax, a conservative website.
Ruddy, who discussed an array of topics with Trump as he sipped whiskey and the president drank Diet Coke, said changes could be afoot. “He’s always been successful and had strong people around him, and he’s in the process of figuring out who those people are,” he said.
After the meeting, Ruddy made an appearance on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” where he complained about Priebus and called for his ouster. Ruddy said that his remarks were warmly received by others in the administration, but that he hadn’t given the president a heads-up beforehand.
“A number of high-ranking Trump administration officials sent me a text praising my performance,” Ruddy said. “If they don’t get someone of a different skill set, they’re going to continue having problems.
Late Sunday, Ruddy said he had spoken with the chief of staff, who had briefed him on his plans for the White House. Ruddy said he came away from the conversation confident that things would improve.
Adding to the intrigue: Sources say the president is planning to have lunch this week with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a longtime confidant who is among those mentioned as having a possible future White House role. While Christie, who has a chilly relationship with Kushner, is seen as unlikely to take a White House job, the lunch has raised eyebrows among some Trump aides. Christie had earlier been offered several roles in the administration but turned them down.
Some Trump friends note that he is adjusting to a new reality — and learning that running a business is a lot different than running the White House. The Washington staff he runs is larger and more complex than the one he oversaw in his business.
“There’s a reality check of what’s happening, that everything President Trump does, there’s going to be a protest and a lawsuit filed,” said New York Rep. Chris Collins.
Others point out that, at this early stage, things still need time to settle.
“I think they’re getting their sea legs more and more and some of the growing pains will go away in time,” said New York congressman Tom Reed, a top Trump ally. “He’s a loyal guy, but he’s from the private sector, and he’ll want to see results. As long as he sees progress, I think he’ll keep his current staff around for the foreseeable future.”
White House aides say it can be hard to know what will make Trump happy, or what will ann the opinion polls of the three parties.
RTL canceled the event because “it would not be a debate between the most important parties.” It would have been the first head-to-head in the run-up to the March 15 parliamentary election.
An opinion poll published Sunday showed Wilders’ PVV would get the most votes if elections were held now, winning 30 seats in the 150-seat parliament, up from 15 seats it got after the 2012 election. Rutte’s VVD was expected to win 24 seats, down from 41 seats it has now.
Martin Schulz’s candidacy in Germany’s September federal election has encouraged those who stayed home in the Bundestag poll four years ago to vote, Der Spiegel reported Monday.
According to an Insa-Opinionstrend survey, one in five current supporters of Schulz’s Social Democrats (SPD) didn’t vote in the 2013 election, but intended to do so in 2017.
Schulz’s candidacy has boosted the SPD’s popularity, with the party hitting its highest approval rating since 2013 earlier this month.
SPD membership has also spiked since Schulz, a former European Parliament president, was chosen as the party’s candidate for the chancellorship.
More than 25 percent of British employers say their staff from other EU nations have considered leaving the U.K. after the country voted to leave the bloc in June.
Businesses that rely on EU migrant workers are struggling to fill vacancies, a survey among more than 1,000 employers by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) showed, Reuters reported Monday.
Fears of an employee Brexodus were particularly high in the education and health care sectors.
Gerwyn Davies, CIPD’s labor market adviser, said the data showed the number of non-U.K. EU nationals working in Britain grew more slowly in the three months to September than before the referendum in June. He added that the development creates “significant recruitment challenges.”
The U.K. government has not yet made clear what visa restrictions it will impose on EU migrants after Brexit.
U.S. President Donald Trump, frustrated over his administration’s rocky start, is complaining to friends and allies about some of his most senior aides — leading to questions about whether he is mulling an early staff shake-up.
Trump has told several people that he is particularly displeased with national security adviser Michael Flynn over reports that he had top-secret discussions with Russian officials about and lied about it. The president, who spent part of the weekend dealing with the Flynn controversy, has been alarmed by reports from top aides that they don’t trust Flynn. “He thinks he’s a problem,” said one person familiar with the president’s thinking. “I would be worried if I was General Flynn.”
Yet Trump’s concern goes beyond his embattled national security adviser, according to conversations with more than a dozen people who have spoken to Trump or his top aides. He has mused aloud about press secretary Sean Spicer, asking specific questions to confidants about how they think he’s doing behind the podium. During conversations with Spicer, the president has occasionally expressed unhappiness with how his press secretary is talking about some matters — sometimes pointing out even small things he’s doing that he doesn’t like.
Others who’ve talked with the president have begun to wonder about the future of Chief of Staff Reince Priebus. Several Trump campaign aides have begun to draft lists of possible Priebus replacements, with senior White House aides Kellyanne Conway and Rick Dearborn and lobbyist David Urban among those mentioned. Gary Cohn, a Trump economic adviser who is close with senior adviser Jared Kushner, has also been the subject of chatter.
For now, Priebus remains in control as chief of staff. He was heavily involved in adviser Stephen Miller’s preparation for appearances on Sunday morning talk shows, which drew praise from the president.
If there is a single issue where the president feels his aides have let him down, it was the controversial executive order on immigration. The president has complained to at least one person about “how his people didn’t give him good advice” on rolling out the travel ban and that he should have waited to sign it instead of “rushing it like they wanted me to.” Trump has also wondered why he didn’t have a legal team in place to defend it from challenges.
The discussions come at a tense time for the Trump White House, which has endured a tumultuous start. The president, who can be hard on his staff, is known for orchestrating shake-ups when things aren’t going right. His campaign had several leadership changes, and such decisions, such as his late-summer elevation of Conway and Stephen Bannon, are often made by gut.
The White House did not respond to requests for comment.
While Trump is unlikely to make any immediate staff moves, senior administration officials say, he has ramped up his contact with people he trusts outside the White House and has expressed concerns about how things are going. The president is turning to longtime New York friends like investor Stephen Schwarzman for advice and is relying more on Cohn, who worked at Goldman Sachs before joining the Trump team.
“He only asks you a lot of questions when he’s unhappy,” one person who recently talked to Trump and knows him well said. “If he thinks things are going well, he just tells you how well it’s going.”
“There will definitely be a change by the end of the summer, if not sooner,” this person added.
This weekend, Trump had at a 30-minute meeting at his Mar-a-Lago resort with Chris Ruddy, a longtime friend who is chief executive of Newsmax, a conservative website.
Ruddy, who discussed an array of topics with Trump as he sipped whiskey and the president drank Diet Coke, said changes could be afoot. “He’s always been successful and had strong people around him, and he’s in the process of figuring out who those people are,” he said.
After the meeting, Ruddy made an appearance on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” where he complained about Priebus and called for his ouster. Ruddy said that his remarks were warmly received by others in the administration, but that he hadn’t given the president a heads-up beforehand.
“A number of high-ranking Trump administration officials sent me a text praising my performance,” Ruddy said. “If they don’t get someone of a different skill set, they’re going to continue having problems.
Late Sunday, Ruddy said he had spoken with the chief of staff, who had briefed him on his plans for the White House. Ruddy said he came away from the conversation confident that things would improve.
Adding to the intrigue: Sources say the president is planning to have lunch this week with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a longtime confidant who is among those mentioned as having a possible future White House role. While Christie, who has a chilly relationship with Kushner, is seen as unlikely to take a White House job, the lunch has raised eyebrows among some Trump aides. Christie had earlier been offered several roles in the administration but turned them down.
Some Trump friends note that he is adjusting to a new reality — and learning that running a business is a lot different than running the White House. The Washington staff he runs is larger and more complex than the one he oversaw in his business.
“There’s a reality check of what’s happening, that everything President Trump does, there’s going to be a protest and a lawsuit filed,” said New York Rep. Chris Collins.
Others point out that, at this early stage, things still need time to settle.
“I think they’re getting their sea legs more and more and some of the growing pains will go away in time,” said New York congressman Tom Reed, a top Trump ally. “He’s a loyal guy, but he’s from the private sector, and he’ll want to see results. As long as he sees progress, I think he’ll keep his current staff around for the foreseeable future.”
White House aides say it can be hard to know what will make Trump happy, or what will anger him. Some aides chafed at Conway’s decision to plug Ivanka Trump’s merchandise line on television, a move that drew widespread criticism, including from ethics experts who said she was walking a dangerous line. But, far from hurting her internally, Trump liked the appearance, and her standing has increased in his eyes, said several people close to the president.
Yet, as the notoriously image-conscious president endures days of negative headlines, some aides have begun to worry. One person who spoke with the president recently said he seemed to be looking for someone to point his finger at.
“You’re not going to see Trump come out and say I was wrong,” this person said. “If you’re waiting on him to take the blame, you’re going to be waiting a long time.”
Yet at the same time, Trump has told friends and he wants his Cabinet members to stay the course no matter the accusations lobbed against them, and that shaking up his staff could be seen as an admission of failure.
Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian who recently met with Trump, said the presidency had been “off to the rockiest start that I can remember.”
“Everything he rolls out is done so badly,” Brinkley said. “It reeks of being short-staffed and not having a true pecking order of production from the White House. They’re just releasing comments, tweets and policies willy-nilly. It’s been a very convulsive and confusing first few weeks, but nevertheless it’s been salad days if you care about Republican policies.”
LONDON — An unlikely political alliance has formed at the heart of the U.K. government.
Chancellor Philip Hammond and Brexit Secretary David Davis — the former the last great hope of Remainers, the latter a veteran Brexiteer — have joined forces to create a power center increasingly driving the U.K. government’s agenda behind the scenes, according to senior government officials and Euroskeptic MPs. One official described it as a “dream team.”
“When the two agree on something, the rest of the cabinet will listen,” said one Whitehall aide familiar with their discussions. A second senior government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, added: “If DD and Phil can agree on something, the chances are they can bring the rest of the cabinet with them.”
The pair now meet regularly to iron out policy differences, helping to smooth decision-making at the fortnightly Brexit cabinet committee, senior government officials said. They meet once or twice a week in person while also regularly texting and speaking on the phone, according to senior officials familiar with their work patterns.
Such is the strength of the informal partnership they are planning to put it on a more official footing in the coming weeks by appearing together in public more frequently, one senior government aide who is aware of the plan said.
It wasn’t supposed to be like this.
Last summer, Euroskeptic MPs said they expected “the three Brexiteers” — Davis, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Trade Secretary Liam Fox — to be the main force in government under Theresa May, stiffening the PM’s resolve, as they saw it, whenever it looked like she was going soft on Brussels.
But their fears about May melted away as soon as the prime minister gave her Conservative Party conference speech in October last year, declaring her intention to end free movement and leave the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
“Our job changed immediately,” one Euroskeptic MP said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “She was the Remainers’ candidate for leader, but she’s one of us now. We thought we’d have to hold her feet to the fire. In fact, our job is now to maintain discipline and rally the troops behind her.”
A WhatsApp group of Conservative Euroskeptics, conceived as a Brexit pressure group, has instead worked as a shadow whipping operation, keeping backbench MPs on May’s side when required.
Working hand in glove with Davis despite having campaigned for Remain last June’s referendum, Hammond has been able to step into the chancellor’s traditional role as the second most powerful figure in government.
“I don’t want to encourage the idea that the chancellor doesn’t talk to the other two [Brexiteers, Johnson and Fox],” a government aide said. “He does — he works with Boris particularly well.” However, the official added: “It’s certainly true that he [Davis] and Hammond have come closer together, even if they started furthest apart.”
Three clear examples of the partnership were cited by separate sources across government: Davis’ shift on the threat to Britain’s financial services sector from Brexit, his embrace of a transition period with the EU after the U.K leaves and his early acceptance that Brussels needed to be convinced Britain was not out to destroy the European “project.”
Both men have shifted ground. Hammond has accepted the U.K. will no longer be part of  the single market.
For his part, Davis quickly modified his language after being surprised by market turbulence caused by his early interventions, senior government officials said. Davis has also gone out of his way to overcome the initial perception that he was deaf to the concerns of the City of London. At their one joint appearance so far, Davis and Hammond met financial executives at a private meeting in The Shard office tower near London Bridge in December, in which the pair promised a “smooth and orderly” Brexit.
A month earlier, Davis had been reported in the Financial Times as telling a private meeting of the City of London Corporation, the governing authority in the financial heart of the U.K., that he was “not really interested” in a transitional deal — an idea advocated by Hammond — and would only consider one to “be kind” to the EU. Davis has since publicly accepted the need for an “implementation phase,” although still insists it should be only one or two years.
Davis has also been in lockstep with Hammond and May on the need to reassure European leaders that Britain does not wish to harm the EU as it leaves. In Davis’ statement to MPs on February 2 while setting out the government’s Brexit white paper, he said: “I can’t say too firmly, we want the EU to succeed politically and economically.” In January, Hammond visited Berlin with the same message. “The U.K. government is clear that a strong and successful EU and a strong and successful euro are very much in the U.K.’s interests,” he told a German business conference. “We will not do anything that would undermine the EU or risk its unraveling.”
Spokespeople for Davis and Hammond declined to comment when asked to contribute on the record for this story.
On reflection, the Hammond-Davis alliance is less surprising than it first appears.
Both are veteran Conservative politicians with a streak of independence who have reached the pinnacle of their careers. Neither hankers after the top job any longer and both understand that Brexit will define their careers.
While they have both suffered in comparison to more charismatic colleagues — Davis famously in his 2005 Tory leadership defeat to David Cameron — they are trusted by the one person who matters: the prime minister.
“They are very much seen as the senior statesmen in the cabinet,” one senior government aide said. “Everyone in government knows they work together closely and are both determined to get on with the job. They have moved on from worrying about Remain and Leave — they just get on with what’s on their desk.”
At the most senior levels of government, the official said, Hammond and Davis are seen to be knuckling down to the job while others grandstand, bluff and bluster. Other cabinet ministers, the aide added, were still obsessed with the fact that they were at the top table of British politics.
One former permanent secretary — the top civil servant in a ministry — said senior civil servants had also been impressed with how quickly Davis, in contrast to Fox, had grasped the scale and complexity of the challenge posed by Brexit.
Their increasingly clger him. Some aides chafed at Conway’s decision to plug Ivanka Trump’s merchandise line on television, a move that drew widespread criticism, including from ethics experts who said she was walking a dangerous line. But, far from hurting her internally, Trump liked the appearance, and her standing has increased in his eyes, said several people close to the president.
Yet, as the notoriously image-conscious president endures days of negative headlines, some aides have begun to worry. One person who spoke with the president recently said he seemed to be looking for someone to point his finger at.
“You’re not going to see Trump come out and say I was wrong,” this person said. “If you’re waiting on him to take the blame, you’re going to be waiting a long time.”
Yet at the same time, Trump has told friends and he wants his Cabinet members to stay the course no matter the accusations lobbed against them, and that shaking up his staff could be seen as an admission of failure.
Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian who recently met with Trump, said the presidency had been “off to the rockiest start that I can remember.”
“Everything he rolls out is done so badly,” Brinkley said. “It reeks of being short-staffed and not having a true pecking order of production from the White House. They’re just releasing comments, tweets and policies willy-nilly. It’s been a very convulsive and confusing first few weeks, but nevertheless it’s been salad days if you care about Republican policies.”
LONDON — An unlikely political alliance has formed at the heart of the U.K. government.
Chancellor Philip Hammond and Brexit Secretary David Davis — the former the last great hope of Remainers, the latter a veteran Brexiteer — have joined forces to create a power center increasingly driving the U.K. government’s agenda behind the scenes, according to senior government officials and Euroskeptic MPs. One official described it as a “dream team.”
“When the two agree on something, the rest of the cabinet will listen,” said one Whitehall aide familiar with their discussions. A second senior government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, added: “If DD and Phil can agree on something, the chances are they can bring the rest of the cabinet with them.”
The pair now meet regularly to iron out policy differences, helping to smooth decision-making at the fortnightly Brexit cabinet committee, senior government officials said. They meet once or twice a week in person while also regularly texting and speaking on the phone, according to senior officials familiar with their work patterns.
Such is the strength of the informal partnership they are planning to put it on a more official footing in the coming weeks by appearing together in public more frequently, one senior government aide who is aware of the plan said.
It wasn’t supposed to be like this.
Last summer, Euroskeptic MPs said they expected “the three Brexiteers” — Davis, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Trade Secretary Liam Fox — to be the main force in government under Theresa May, stiffening the PM’s resolve, as they saw it, whenever it looked like she was going soft on Brussels.
But their fears about May melted away as soon as the prime minister gave her Conservative Party conference speech in October last year, declaring her intention to end free movement and leave the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
“Our job changed immediately,” one Euroskeptic MP said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “She was the Remainers’ candidate for leader, but she’s one of us now. We thought we’d have to hold her feet to the fire. In fact, our job is now to maintain discipline and rally the troops behind her.”
A WhatsApp group of Conservative Euroskeptics, conceived as a Brexit pressure group, has instead worked as a shadow whipping operation, keeping backbench MPs on May’s side when required.
Working hand in glove with Davis despite having campaigned for Remain last June’s referendum, Hammond has been able to step into the chancellor’s traditional role as the second most powerful figure in government.
“I don’t want to encourage the idea that the chancellor doesn’t talk to the other two [Brexiteers, Johnson and Fox],” a government aide said. “He does — he works with Boris particularly well.” However, the official added: “It’s certainly true that he [Davis] and Hammond have come closer together, even if they started furthest apart.”
Three clear examples of the partnership were cited by separate sources across government: Davis’ shift on the threat to Britain’s financial services sector from Brexit, his embrace of a transition period with the EU after the U.K leaves and his early acceptance that Brussels needed to be convinced Britain was not out to destroy the European “project.”
Both men have shifted ground. Hammond has accepted the U.K. will no longer be part of  the single market.
For his part, Davis quickly modified his language after being surprised by market turbulence caused by his early interventions, senior government officials said. Davis has also gone out of his way to overcome the initial perception that he was deaf to the concerns of the City of London. At their one joint appearance so far, Davis and Hammond met financial executives at a private meeting in The Shard office tower near London Bridge in December, in which the pair promised a “smooth and orderly” Brexit.
A month earlier, Davis had been reported in the Financial Times as telling a private meeting of the City of London Corporation, the governing authority in the financial heart of the U.K., that he was “not really interested” in a transitional deal — an idea advocated by Hammond — and would only consider one to “be kind” to the EU. Davis has since publicly accepted the need for an “implementation phase,” although still insists it should be only one or two years.
Davis has also been in lockstep with Hammond and May on the need to reassure European leaders that Britain does not wish to harm the EU as it leaves. In Davis’ statement to MPs on February 2 while setting out the government’s Brexit white paper, he said: “I can’t say too firmly, we want the EU to succeed politically and economically.” In January, Hammond visited Berlin with the same message. “The U.K. government is clear that a strong and successful EU and a strong and successful euro are very much in the U.K.’s interests,” he told a German business conference. “We will not do anything that would undermine the EU or risk its unraveling.”
Spokespeople for Davis and Hammond declined to comment when asked to contribute on the record for this story.
On reflection, the Hammond-Davis alliance is less surprising than it first appears.
Both are veteran Conservative politicians with a streak of independence who have reached the pinnacle of their careers. Neither hankers after the top job any longer and both understand that Brexit will define their careers.
While they have both suffered in comparison to more charismatic colleagues — Davis famously in his 2005 Tory leadership defeat to David Cameron — they are trusted by the one person who matters: the prime minister.
“They are very much seen as the senior statesmen in the cabinet,” one senior government aide said. “Everyone in government knows they work together closely and are both determined to get on with the job. They have moved on from worrying about Remain and Leave — they just get on with what’s on their desk.”
At the most senior levels of government, the official said, Hammond and Davis are seen to be knuckling down to the job while others grandstand, bluff and bluster. Other cabinet ministers, the aide added, were still obsessed with the fact that they were at the top table of British politics.
One former permanent secretary — the top civil servant in a ministry — said senior civil servants had also been impressed with how quickly Davis, in contrast to Fox, had grasped the scale and complexity of the challenge posed by Brexit.
Their increasingly close working relationship has been helped by physical proximity. As chancellor, Hammond has an apartment in No. 10 Downing Street. (The prime minister has taken up residence in the larger apartment in No. 11.) Davis’ Brexit Department has set up home next door at No. 9.
The pair is also less ideologically split than the referendum campaign might suggest. Despite being seen as the leader of the “soft Brexiteers,” who want the U.K. to maintain the closest possible ties to the single market, Hammond is no fan of Brussels. One Tory aide, who knows the chancellor well, recounted how in private during the early days of a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, whenever there was a problem in government, he would declare: “The only answer is to leave the EU!”
Now with Davis’ help, Hammond appears to be finally getting his wish — even if he did not think it was the wisest course of action.
ISTANBUL — With President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s plans for greater powers firmly on track, Turkey’s government has set about shaping the country’s future outside the halls of parliament.
Last month, as parliamentarians brawled over — and finally voted for — constitutional changes designed to establish Erdoğan’s long-awaited presidential system, the ministry of education published a draft curriculum for the new school year.
Some of the changes appeared innocuous: Children will be taught about renowned Turkish and Muslim scientists alongside Einstein and Newton, for instance. But secular-leaning Turks were enraged at the plan to remove classes on evolution and the country’s founding fathers, accusing the government of injecting education with its conservative-religious ideology.
Egitim-Sen, a teachers’ union often critical of government policy, worried that the draft curriculum would encourage a “religious and nationalist” mindset, with its emphasis on “Turkishness” and Sunni Islam. Meanwhile, parliamentarians of the largest opposition party CHP condemned what they saw as the “erasure” of the Turkish republic’s founding president, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk: The education ministry wanted to cut back on classes covering him and his successor, Ismet Inönü.
The government hit back: The new syllabus would teach Turkey’s history “from the perspective of a national and moral education,” the education ministry declared. The aim was to “protect national values,” added the undersecretary of education, Yusuf Tekin. Moreover, the ministry pledged it would alter its teaching of religion to comply with the European Court of Human Rights, replacing phrases such as “our religion” with the more neutral “Islamic religion.”
The ministry even requested the public’s feedback on its proposal — a rare move in Turkish politics, but unlikely to reassure its critics. Turks who adhere to their country’s constitutional secularism increasingly feel that their lifestyle is under threat from Erdoğan and his pious support base.
Turkey’s secular-religious rift is as old as the republic itself. Until Erdoğan’s Justice and Development Party (AKP) rose to power in 2002, the two sides’ fortunes were reversed: Following Atatürk’s westernizing reforms in the 1920s, the secular elite ruled the country while pious citizens were marginalized.
In the early years of AKP rule, Erdoğan seemed to bridge the divide; both liberals and conservatives lauded his reversal of the headscarf ban in universities, which had barred generations of women from higher education. But on both sides, feelings have hardened since. Rhetoric like ministers declaring a woman’s job to be motherhood, incidents like an incensed mob storming a Radiohead party during Ramadan and government policies such as steep tax hikes for alcohol have contributed to a sense of besiegement among secular Turks.
It’s also not the first time that education has emerged as a battleground. The government’s decision to allow young girls to wear headscarves at school and Erdoğan’s call for mandatory Ottoman-Turkish language classes were met with condemose working relationship has been helped by physical proximity. As chancellor, Hammond has an apartment in No. 10 Downing Street. (The prime minister has taken up residence in the larger apartment in No. 11.) Davis’ Brexit Department has set up home next door at No. 9.
The pair is also less ideologically split than the referendum campaign might suggest. Despite being seen as the leader of the “soft Brexiteers,” who want the U.K. to maintain the closest possible ties to the single market, Hammond is no fan of Brussels. One Tory aide, who knows the chancellor well, recounted how in private during the early days of a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, whenever there was a problem in government, he would declare: “The only answer is to leave the EU!”
Now with Davis’ help, Hammond appears to be finally getting his wish — even if he did not think it was the wisest course of action.
ISTANBUL — With President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s plans for greater powers firmly on track, Turkey’s government has set about shaping the country’s future outside the halls of parliament.
Last month, as parliamentarians brawled over — and finally voted for — constitutional changes designed to establish Erdoğan’s long-awaited presidential system, the ministry of education published a draft curriculum for the new school year.
Some of the changes appeared innocuous: Children will be taught about renowned Turkish and Muslim scientists alongside Einstein and Newton, for instance. But secular-leaning Turks were enraged at the plan to remove classes on evolution and the country’s founding fathers, accusing the government of injecting education with its conservative-religious ideology.
Egitim-Sen, a teachers’ union often critical of government policy, worried that the draft curriculum would encourage a “religious and nationalist” mindset, with its emphasis on “Turkishness” and Sunni Islam. Meanwhile, parliamentarians of the largest opposition party CHP condemned what they saw as the “erasure” of the Turkish republic’s founding president, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk: The education ministry wanted to cut back on classes covering him and his successor, Ismet Inönü.
The government hit back: The new syllabus would teach Turkey’s history “from the perspective of a national and moral education,” the education ministry declared. The aim was to “protect national values,” added the undersecretary of education, Yusuf Tekin. Moreover, the ministry pledged it would alter its teaching of religion to comply with the European Court of Human Rights, replacing phrases such as “our religion” with the more neutral “Islamic religion.”
The ministry even requested the public’s feedback on its proposal — a rare move in Turkish politics, but unlikely to reassure its critics. Turks who adhere to their country’s constitutional secularism increasingly feel that their lifestyle is under threat from Erdoğan and his pious support base.
Turkey’s secular-religious rift is as old as the republic itself. Until Erdoğan’s Justice and Development Party (AKP) rose to power in 2002, the two sides’ fortunes were reversed: Following Atatürk’s westernizing reforms in the 1920s, the secular elite ruled the country while pious citizens were marginalized.
In the early years of AKP rule, Erdoğan seemed to bridge the divide; both liberals and conservatives lauded his reversal of the headscarf ban in universities, which had barred generations of women from higher education. But on both sides, feelings have hardened since. Rhetoric like ministers declaring a woman’s job to be motherhood, incidents like an incensed mob storming a Radiohead party during Ramadan and government policies such as steep tax hikes for alcohol have contributed to a sense of besiegement among secular Turks.
It’s also not the first time that education has emerged as a battleground. The government’s decision to allow young girls to wear headscarves at school and Erdoğan’s call for mandatory Ottoman-Turkish language classes were met with condemnation from secularists. In 2014, parents took to the streets in protest against education reforms that enrolled as many as 40,000 pupils in state-run religious institutions, called imam-hatip schools, whether they liked it or not.
Imam-hatip schools were established in 1923 to train imams, a measure to impose state control over religion in accordance with Atatürk’s secular vision for Turkey. Today, they teach students the national curriculum in addition to religious classes. Since the AKP’s election success in 2002, enrollment in these schools has surged from 63,000 to one million. Erdoğan, who has expressed the wish to raise a “pious generation,” attended an imam-hatip school himself.
For years, Turkey’s curriculum has remained largely untouched by the growing role of religion in public life. Now, however, secular-minded parents fret over the education ministry’s plan to teach pupils about the concept of jihad and its proposed removal of evolution from science classes.
But a stronger emphasis on Islam isn’t the only change that worries government critics. The ministry has added a class on the coup attempt that rocked Turkey on July 15 last year; the plotters’ failure to overthrow the government has become a highly politicized founding myth to Erdoğan’s vision for his country. In the first week after the summer holidays, pupils were handed a government-issued pamphlet explaining the coup attempt, and shown videos of Erdoğan reading out a poem alongside footage of planes firing onto the streets of Ankara.
“The government is using the story of the coup to present Erdoğan as a hero,” said a history teacher who works at a high school in central Istanbul. (He asked to remain anonymous, given the difficult climate for educators in Turkey: Tens of thousands of academics and teaching staff have been suspended following the coup attempt.)
On his phone, he flipped through images, showing me portraits of “martyrs” — those who died during the coup attempt — pinned up on classroom walls. “It’s politicized history,” he said. But he argued it wasn’t so different from the current curriculum: “It’s always been a history of heroes. Now, it will be more Erdoğan and less Atatürk.”
The new curriculum will likely be imposed on schools from September onward. But the history teacher said he would still give lessons as he saw fit. In the privacy of the classroom, no one could stop him from suggesting “alternative books” to supplement the government’s required reading — a furtive act of protest.
“In Turkey,” he said with a smile, “teaching is political.”
PARIS — Everything looks rosy for Emmanuel Macron. He’s leapfrogged the scandal-hit François Fillon into second place in the presidential polls; attacks by his rivals haven’t dampened his supporters’ enthusiasm; and Marine Le Pen has identified him as her main adversary.
But there’s still a long way to go until the first round of the presidential election on April 23. And the 39-year-old former economy minister who wants to do away with the old political system is about to realize the very same system can still throw up serious obstacles.
The independent centrist who wants to overcome the old right vs. left divide, which he says is irrelevant and hides the real separation between “progressives” and “conservatives,” faces two dangers, one from each side.
The first, on the right, is if Fillon’s rapid fall in the polls, following claims he used public funds to pay his family for allegedly fake jobs, comes to a halt.
The second, on the left, is if Socialist Party candidate Benoît Hamon manages to electrify the party’s hardcore support with his leftist utopian platform based on less work and a universal basic income.
The polls show Macron winning about 20 percent of the vote in the first round of the election, some six points behind far-right leader Le Pen. They predict he would trounce Le Pen in the second round runoff two weeks later, with 63 percent of the vote. But those same surveys make clear the race is far from over.
Within two weeks, Fillon’s support has dropped from 24 percent to around 18 percent, according to most polls. But it won’t get much lower, a member of the Fillon campaign said, because “there’s a core of conservative voters who will never go elsewhere and just want the [conservative Républicains party] candidate to win after five years of [François] Hollande.”
And if polls say 70 percent of the French electorate believe Fillon should drop out of the race, “it also shows you that 30 percent don’t agree with that. Here’s the core we must work on,” said the optimistic Fillon staffer.
As for Hamon, his support surged after he won the Socialist primary by resoundingly defeating former Prime Minister Manuel Valls. Before the primary, Hamon was on 7 percent of the vote. He’s now on 15 percent, down from a short-lived high of 17 percent. Post-primary momentum and a platform that overlaps with that of perennial far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon explain much of that success.
On his left flank, Macron may have to contend with a block of about 25 percent of voters (adding up Hamon and Mélenchon’s support) who won’t stray far from the Socialist Party, no matter how disappointed they have been with Hollande.
That leaves Macron with a limited pool of voters he can tap into to ensure his presence in the election’s runoff.
When Macron unveils his detailed policy platform at the end of the month, he may have to “end ambiguity to his own detriment,” said Jérôme Fourquet, director at IFOP, one of France’s main pollsters.
“He has been very good at uniting very diverse segments of the electorate behind him, but so far with general ideas and abstract speeches. Now we will see whether he can make specific proposals without disappointing either his right or his left flank.” At this stage, said Fourquet, the former economy minister has managed to do what no one has done before: be a credible candidate from outside the traditional parties.
Contrary to his rivals’ allegations, Fourquet said, Macron’s voters are not only the young and the well-to-do, and he polls well among the middle-classes and older voters. Where Macron struggles is with blue-collar workers, with only 9 percent saying they are prepared to support him, and lower-level clerical workers, where he polls at around 17 percent.
The real difference between Macron supporters and others, said Fourquet, is their level of education: Only 17 percent of French voters without a high school degree are ready to back him, whereas 39 percent of those with at least two years of college want him as president. He is far ahead of other presidential contenders in the latter category.
His supporters are also the most likely to change their mind before the election. Only 50 percent say they are certain to vote for him. That contrasts with 80 percent of Le Pen supporters who say they are sure they will back her.
“Voter behavior in France remains marked by the historical right-left divide,” said Bruno Cautres, a political scientist at the CEVIPOF research center.
The more specific Macron’s proposals are, the higher the risk that he may turn off some of his voters. So far, he has been careful to walk the line between left and right.
He has said, for example, that he will keep the 35-hour work week, a Socialist sacred cow, although he wants to adjust the law to the point where it will no longer mean much. In a similar vein, he has also said he would keep the wealth tax of Socialist lore — although he would limit its tax base to real-estate holdings only.
“We know about the risk that he could look too aggressive on reforms to some and too shy to others,” a Macron aide confided without indicating how his boss would try to solve the riddle, and agreeing with Fourquet that there has been “ambiguity” in his public pronouncements so far.
What could help Macron is his new status as the only sure choice to defeat Le Pen in the runoff.
“In that, he has succeeded at something everyone failed at before, helped nation from secularists. In 2014, parents took to the streets in protest against education reforms that enrolled as many as 40,000 pupils in state-run religious institutions, called imam-hatip schools, whether they liked it or not.
Imam-hatip schools were established in 1923 to train imams, a measure to impose state control over religion in accordance with Atatürk’s secular vision for Turkey. Today, they teach students the national curriculum in addition to religious classes. Since the AKP’s election success in 2002, enrollment in these schools has surged from 63,000 to one million. Erdoğan, who has expressed the wish to raise a “pious generation,” attended an imam-hatip school himself.
For years, Turkey’s curriculum has remained largely untouched by the growing role of religion in public life. Now, however, secular-minded parents fret over the education ministry’s plan to teach pupils about the concept of jihad and its proposed removal of evolution from science classes.
But a stronger emphasis on Islam isn’t the only change that worries government critics. The ministry has added a class on the coup attempt that rocked Turkey on July 15 last year; the plotters’ failure to overthrow the government has become a highly politicized founding myth to Erdoğan’s vision for his country. In the first week after the summer holidays, pupils were handed a government-issued pamphlet explaining the coup attempt, and shown videos of Erdoğan reading out a poem alongside footage of planes firing onto the streets of Ankara.
“The government is using the story of the coup to present Erdoğan as a hero,” said a history teacher who works at a high school in central Istanbul. (He asked to remain anonymous, given the difficult climate for educators in Turkey: Tens of thousands of academics and teaching staff have been suspended following the coup attempt.)
On his phone, he flipped through images, showing me portraits of “martyrs” — those who died during the coup attempt — pinned up on classroom walls. “It’s politicized history,” he said. But he argued it wasn’t so different from the current curriculum: “It’s always been a history of heroes. Now, it will be more Erdoğan and less Atatürk.”
The new curriculum will likely be imposed on schools from September onward. But the history teacher said he would still give lessons as he saw fit. In the privacy of the classroom, no one could stop him from suggesting “alternative books” to supplement the government’s required reading — a furtive act of protest.
“In Turkey,” he said with a smile, “teaching is political.”
PARIS — Everything looks rosy for Emmanuel Macron. He’s leapfrogged the scandal-hit François Fillon into second place in the presidential polls; attacks by his rivals haven’t dampened his supporters’ enthusiasm; and Marine Le Pen has identified him as her main adversary.
But there’s still a long way to go until the first round of the presidential election on April 23. And the 39-year-old former economy minister who wants to do away with the old political system is about to realize the very same system can still throw up serious obstacles.
The independent centrist who wants to overcome the old right vs. left divide, which he says is irrelevant and hides the real separation between “progressives” and “conservatives,” faces two dangers, one from each side.
The first, on the right, is if Fillon’s rapid fall in the polls, following claims he used public funds to pay his family for allegedly fake jobs, comes to a halt.
The second, on the left, is if Socialist Party candidate Benoît Hamon manages to electrify the party’s hardcore support with his leftist utopian platform based on less work and a universal basic income.
The polls show Macron winning about 20 percent of the vote in the first round of the election, some six points behind far-right leader Le Pen. They predict he would trounce Le Pen in the second round runoff two weeks later, with 63 percent of the vote. But those same surveys make clear the race is far from over.
Within two weeks, Fillon’s support has dropped from 24 percent to around 18 percent, according to most polls. But it won’t get much lower, a member of the Fillon campaign said, because “there’s a core of conservative voters who will never go elsewhere and just want the [conservative Républicains party] candidate to win after five years of [François] Hollande.”
And if polls say 70 percent of the French electorate believe Fillon should drop out of the race, “it also shows you that 30 percent don’t agree with that. Here’s the core we must work on,” said the optimistic Fillon staffer.
As for Hamon, his support surged after he won the Socialist primary by resoundingly defeating former Prime Minister Manuel Valls. Before the primary, Hamon was on 7 percent of the vote. He’s now on 15 percent, down from a short-lived high of 17 percent. Post-primary momentum and a platform that overlaps with that of perennial far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon explain much of that success.
On his left flank, Macron may have to contend with a block of about 25 percent of voters (adding up Hamon and Mélenchon’s support) who won’t stray far from the Socialist Party, no matter how disappointed they have been with Hollande.
That leaves Macron with a limited pool of voters he can tap into to ensure his presence in the election’s runoff.
When Macron unveils his detailed policy platform at the end of the month, he may have to “end ambiguity to his own detriment,” said Jérôme Fourquet, director at IFOP, one of France’s main pollsters.
“He has been very good at uniting very diverse segments of the electorate behind him, but so far with general ideas and abstract speeches. Now we will see whether he can make specific proposals without disappointing either his right or his left flank.” At this stage, said Fourquet, the former economy minister has managed to do what no one has done before: be a credible candidate from outside the traditional parties.
Contrary to his rivals’ allegations, Fourquet said, Macron’s voters are not only the young and the well-to-do, and he polls well among the middle-classes and older voters. Where Macron struggles is with blue-collar workers, with only 9 percent saying they are prepared to support him, and lower-level clerical workers, where he polls at around 17 percent.
The real difference between Macron supporters and others, said Fourquet, is their level of education: Only 17 percent of French voters without a high school degree are ready to back him, whereas 39 percent of those with at least two years of college want him as president. He is far ahead of other presidential contenders in the latter category.
His supporters are also the most likely to change their mind before the election. Only 50 percent say they are certain to vote for him. That contrasts with 80 percent of Le Pen supporters who say they are sure they will back her.
“Voter behavior in France remains marked by the historical right-left divide,” said Bruno Cautres, a political scientist at the CEVIPOF research center.
The more specific Macron’s proposals are, the higher the risk that he may turn off some of his voters. So far, he has been careful to walk the line between left and right.
He has said, for example, that he will keep the 35-hour work week, a Socialist sacred cow, although he wants to adjust the law to the point where it will no longer mean much. In a similar vein, he has also said he would keep the wealth tax of Socialist lore — although he would limit its tax base to real-estate holdings only.
“We know about the risk that he could look too aggressive on reforms to some and too shy to others,” a Macron aide confided without indicating how his boss would try to solve the riddle, and agreeing with Fourquet that there has been “ambiguity” in his public pronouncements so far.
What could help Macron is his new status as the only sure choice to defeat Le Pen in the runoff.
“In that, he has succeeded at something everyone failed at before, helped by the other guys’ rather bad campaigns,” Fourquet said. “But he would have a much tougher second round if he was facing either a mainstream conservative or a Socialist candidate.”
It seems unlikely Le Pen won’t make it to the runoff, however, so for now Macron can focus his efforts on beating his mainstream rivals in the first round.
BERLIN — Slovenian President Borut Pahor warned Austrian officials they risked reigniting cross-border tensions if they backed away from a promise to anchor protections for Slovenes in the southern province of Carinthia’s constitution.
Carinthian officials had previously committed to insert language into a new constitution to guarantee that state and local governments would treat German and Slovene speakers equally. But earlier this month, the leader of the center-right Austrian People’s Party in the state said his party no longer supported specific mention of Slovene-speaking citizens in the new constitution, raising doubts on whether the change would be made.
“We are paying attention to this,” Pahor told POLITICO in an interview last week.
“I don’t want to see this become a huge problem because that would open a variety of questions that would harm relations … But Slovenia will do whatever it takes to see the rights of minorities respected there.”
Slovenes have lived in Carinthia for more than a millennium, but the dissolution of the Habsburg Empire after World War I left them separated from Slovenia proper to the south. Yugoslav troops tried repeatedly after the war to occupy southern Carinthia without success. A majority of Carinthians voted to remain part of Austria in a referendum in 1920, a decision celebrated annually by the German-speaking majority in the province.
Although the number of Carinthians who identify themselves as Slovene has declined from about one-third to less than 3 percent over the past century, tensions over officially recognizing the language remain. The provincial government, led for years by the now-deceased far-right leader Jörg Haider, resisted efforts to erect bilingual signposts in towns with a sizeable Slovene population.
Following Haider’s death in a car crash in 2008, those tensions subsided and a compromise was reached on bilingual signs in 2011.
The latest objections by the local branch of the Austrian People’s Party, which had previously supported including protections for Slovenes, threatens to reopen old wounds.
The party leadership’s about-face appears to be motivated by political calculation. Carinthia is governed by a Social Democrat-led coaltion that includes the People’s Party and the Greens. New elections are set for next year and some observers speculate the People’s Party worries about its prospects if it endorses the reform.
“People’s emotions are running high,” local People’s Party leader Christian Benger said in a newspaper interview this month in which he announced the shift, adding that he worried mentioning the Slovene language would “drive a wedge” through the state.
The development caught Slovenian officials off guard. They believed the decades-long debate over minority rights in the region had been laid to rest. And even though those rights are protected by Austrian federal law and European Union law, Pahor said the government in Ljubljana wouldn’t tolerate any backsliding.
“I hope that the Austrian government at the federal level and [the state] government will see at the end of the day that that would send relations back to the past,” he said. “That wouldn’t be good for the future. So I will do my best to inspire all Austrian political forces to resist the temptation to go with this nationalistic rhetoric.”
MADRID — Written off more than a few times in his long career, Mariano Rajoy is suddenly the unrivaled big man of Spanish politics, uniting the conservatives just as his leftist opponents bicker and bleed support.
His resurgence was celebrated over the weekend at the ruling Popular Party (PP) congress, which, as expected, overwhelmingly reelected Spain’s prime minister as its chief. More notable was the fulsome praise and pomp at an event attended by some 3,000 delegates that at times resembled an honorary parade to celebrate victorious Caesar.
The optimism in the ranks of the PP and the enthusiasm for Rajoy — a 61-year-old Galician of phlegmatic temperament — is the surprise development of Spanish politics. Just a year ago, pundits were writing Rajoy’s political obit. But the conservative leader, who took over the party in 2004 and survived two electoral defeats before winning government, has defied his doubters once again.
Looking into near future, Rajoy and his PP are buttressed by the conviction that the party will remain unchallenged for some time, given Rajoy’s firm control of the PP and the disarray in the Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE) as well as the fight at the top of Podemos, the anti-austerity party on the far left, which was riven by a “psycho-drama” during its own congress this weekend.
The right has emerged as the winner of the political turmoil that fragmented the parliament and left Spain in a political stalemate for much of 2016. During the 10-month-long political deadlock, Rajoy resisted pressure to step aside and, in an unheard-of gesture, refused an invitation from King Felipe VI to form a government. In June elections, his Popular Party won again, increasing its seats in the assembly, but still falling short of a governing majority, even in a coalition with the liberal Ciudadanos, its more natural partner.
Rajoy had to wait until his Socialist rival Pedro Sánchez, who had adamantly opposed to back him, was forced to resign in October. A new interim leadership of the PSOE then facilitated a second mandate for Rajoy with a new vote in congress.
No one knows how long the PP power high will last, but Rajoy recently dismissed an agreement with Ciudadanos to limit his time in power to eight years, invoking the example of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Germany, who’s been ruling for more than 11 years, when asked about the subject.
In the short term, however, the conservatives are preparing for two scenarios depending on the outcome of a Socialist leadership race due in May.
According to a senior party source, both look equally promising for Rajoy: Should the Socialists become more combative, with former leader Sánchez again at the top, most observers expect Rajoy to call new elections — and for his party to gain support among voters. Should someone more accommodating take power, then the current cooperation between Rajoy’s minority government and the PSOE — dubbed by many a de facto grand coalition — is expected to continue.
“A leftist alternative to the government in the middle term is impossible … due to divisions and infighting,” said Lucía Méndez, a political analyst for the newspaper El Mundo. “The PP enjoys very favorable winds to remain in power simply by governing without stepping on people’s toes and without taking unpopular measures.”
On Saturday, Rajoy, the country’s prime minister since 2011, won 96 percent of the votes cast.
“We are a united party, with a firm, sensible and experienced leader like Mariano Rajoy, whom we all support wholeheartedly,” said the president of the region of Madrid, Cristina Cifuentes.
“It was worth it, dear president. You were right, you were always right,” said the PP’s number two, Defense Minister María Dolores de Cospedal, praising Rajoy’s managing of the country’s economic crisis.
The conservative prime minister’s show of authority stood in stark contrast with the events last year when, during the political deadlock, there were public doubts about his leadership. Some observers, even in the conservative camp, asked for the prime minister to step aside in favor of a consensus figure that would be acceptable to the right and the left and help break the impasse. But Rajoy prevailed.
“Governing the crisis has had a very high cost for the party. We paid a price in popularity … and in votes,” Rajoy said Sunday. “We carry that as a medal of serviceby the other guys’ rather bad campaigns,” Fourquet said. “But he would have a much tougher second round if he was facing either a mainstream conservative or a Socialist candidate.”
It seems unlikely Le Pen won’t make it to the runoff, however, so for now Macron can focus his efforts on beating his mainstream rivals in the first round.
BERLIN — Slovenian President Borut Pahor warned Austrian officials they risked reigniting cross-border tensions if they backed away from a promise to anchor protections for Slovenes in the southern province of Carinthia’s constitution.
Carinthian officials had previously committed to insert language into a new constitution to guarantee that state and local governments would treat German and Slovene speakers equally. But earlier this month, the leader of the center-right Austrian People’s Party in the state said his party no longer supported specific mention of Slovene-speaking citizens in the new constitution, raising doubts on whether the change would be made.
“We are paying attention to this,” Pahor told POLITICO in an interview last week.
“I don’t want to see this become a huge problem because that would open a variety of questions that would harm relations … But Slovenia will do whatever it takes to see the rights of minorities respected there.”
Slovenes have lived in Carinthia for more than a millennium, but the dissolution of the Habsburg Empire after World War I left them separated from Slovenia proper to the south. Yugoslav troops tried repeatedly after the war to occupy southern Carinthia without success. A majority of Carinthians voted to remain part of Austria in a referendum in 1920, a decision celebrated annually by the German-speaking majority in the province.
Although the number of Carinthians who identify themselves as Slovene has declined from about one-third to less than 3 percent over the past century, tensions over officially recognizing the language remain. The provincial government, led for years by the now-deceased far-right leader Jörg Haider, resisted efforts to erect bilingual signposts in towns with a sizeable Slovene population.
Following Haider’s death in a car crash in 2008, those tensions subsided and a compromise was reached on bilingual signs in 2011.
The latest objections by the local branch of the Austrian People’s Party, which had previously supported including protections for Slovenes, threatens to reopen old wounds.
The party leadership’s about-face appears to be motivated by political calculation. Carinthia is governed by a Social Democrat-led coaltion that includes the People’s Party and the Greens. New elections are set for next year and some observers speculate the People’s Party worries about its prospects if it endorses the reform.
“People’s emotions are running high,” local People’s Party leader Christian Benger said in a newspaper interview this month in which he announced the shift, adding that he worried mentioning the Slovene language would “drive a wedge” through the state.
The development caught Slovenian officials off guard. They believed the decades-long debate over minority rights in the region had been laid to rest. And even though those rights are protected by Austrian federal law and European Union law, Pahor said the government in Ljubljana wouldn’t tolerate any backsliding.
“I hope that the Austrian government at the federal level and [the state] government will see at the end of the day that that would send relations back to the past,” he said. “That wouldn’t be good for the future. So I will do my best to inspire all Austrian political forces to resist the temptation to go with this nationalistic rhetoric.”
MADRID — Written off more than a few times in his long career, Mariano Rajoy is suddenly the unrivaled big man of Spanish politics, uniting the conservatives just as his leftist opponents bicker and bleed support.
His resurgence was celebrated over the weekend at the ruling Popular Party (PP) congress, which, as expected, overwhelmingly reelected Spain’s prime minister as its chief. More notable was the fulsome praise and pomp at an event attended by some 3,000 delegates that at times resembled an honorary parade to celebrate victorious Caesar.
The optimism in the ranks of the PP and the enthusiasm for Rajoy — a 61-year-old Galician of phlegmatic temperament — is the surprise development of Spanish politics. Just a year ago, pundits were writing Rajoy’s political obit. But the conservative leader, who took over the party in 2004 and survived two electoral defeats before winning government, has defied his doubters once again.
Looking into near future, Rajoy and his PP are buttressed by the conviction that the party will remain unchallenged for some time, given Rajoy’s firm control of the PP and the disarray in the Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE) as well as the fight at the top of Podemos, the anti-austerity party on the far left, which was riven by a “psycho-drama” during its own congress this weekend.
The right has emerged as the winner of the political turmoil that fragmented the parliament and left Spain in a political stalemate for much of 2016. During the 10-month-long political deadlock, Rajoy resisted pressure to step aside and, in an unheard-of gesture, refused an invitation from King Felipe VI to form a government. In June elections, his Popular Party won again, increasing its seats in the assembly, but still falling short of a governing majority, even in a coalition with the liberal Ciudadanos, its more natural partner.
Rajoy had to wait until his Socialist rival Pedro Sánchez, who had adamantly opposed to back him, was forced to resign in October. A new interim leadership of the PSOE then facilitated a second mandate for Rajoy with a new vote in congress.
No one knows how long the PP power high will last, but Rajoy recently dismissed an agreement with Ciudadanos to limit his time in power to eight years, invoking the example of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Germany, who’s been ruling for more than 11 years, when asked about the subject.
In the short term, however, the conservatives are preparing for two scenarios depending on the outcome of a Socialist leadership race due in May.
According to a senior party source, both look equally promising for Rajoy: Should the Socialists become more combative, with former leader Sánchez again at the top, most observers expect Rajoy to call new elections — and for his party to gain support among voters. Should someone more accommodating take power, then the current cooperation between Rajoy’s minority government and the PSOE — dubbed by many a de facto grand coalition — is expected to continue.
“A leftist alternative to the government in the middle term is impossible … due to divisions and infighting,” said Lucía Méndez, a political analyst for the newspaper El Mundo. “The PP enjoys very favorable winds to remain in power simply by governing without stepping on people’s toes and without taking unpopular measures.”
On Saturday, Rajoy, the country’s prime minister since 2011, won 96 percent of the votes cast.
“We are a united party, with a firm, sensible and experienced leader like Mariano Rajoy, whom we all support wholeheartedly,” said the president of the region of Madrid, Cristina Cifuentes.
“It was worth it, dear president. You were right, you were always right,” said the PP’s number two, Defense Minister María Dolores de Cospedal, praising Rajoy’s managing of the country’s economic crisis.
The conservative prime minister’s show of authority stood in stark contrast with the events last year when, during the political deadlock, there were public doubts about his leadership. Some observers, even in the conservative camp, asked for the prime minister to step aside in favor of a consensus figure that would be acceptable to the right and the left and help break the impasse. But Rajoy prevailed.
“Governing the crisis has had a very high cost for the party. We paid a price in popularity … and in votes,” Rajoy said Sunday. “We carry that as a medal of service to Spain … I say it with pride.”
The PP’s Socialist rivals are due to elect a new leader in May in what is expected to be a bitter contest. A senior party figure party recently described the upcoming election as the “Battle of Verdun.”
The insurgent, far-left Podemos, meanwhile, aimed to settle a longstanding dispute between the party’s leader, Pablo Iglesias, and his number two, Íñigo Errejón — with Iglesias carrying the day at the weekend congress.
The conservative leader mostly left the PP leadership team in place, including his number two, Cospedal, whose stacking of posts in the party and in the government has created some concern. Rajoy’s only slight change was his appointment of Fernando Martínez-Maillo as the general coordinator, effectively the number three position within the party.
A democratic reform of the party also appears out of sight. The PP remains the only big political force in Spain not to elect the leader in primaries open to all party members, using instead a more indirect vote in which regional party branches send delegates to the national congress.
Isabel Benjumea, who leads a small group of dissidents inside the party, said the PP had opted for a procedural congress “without debate” in order to “strengthen the leadership even more.”
“There is no meaningful internal opposition to Rajoy in the PP and the congress has only contributed to his strengthening,” said Pablo Montesinos, a reporter who has covered the PP since 2008 for Libertad Digital.
The Spanish prime minister has pitched his party as a big tent, inclusive and broad. “We offer common sense and moderation,” Rajoy said Sunday. “There’s room for everyone in this party.”
Swiss voters on Sunday appeared to back a measure to simplify the route to citizenship for third-generation immigrants, despite claims from right-wing campaigners that such a move could pose threats to national security.
Projections by public broadcaster SRF after polls closed Sunday showed the measure winning by a significant margin, according to reports.
The constitutional amendment would simplify the process of obtaining a Swiss passport for people born and raised in immigrant families in Switzerland.
About 25 percent of Switzerland’s population is foreign but fewer than 25,000 people qualify as third-generation immigrants, meaning at least one of their grandparents was born in the country or acquired residency and of those nearly 60 percent of are Italian.
The initial debate had nothing to do with religion until the SVP, an anti-Islam far-right party, began arguing that this would mean a loss of Swiss values. The party used posters showing a woman in a black niqab with the slogan that called on voters to reject “uncontrolled citizenship.”
A German special assembly elected Frank-Walter Steinmeier as the country’s next president Sunday.
The veteran Social Democrat and former foreign minister, who will assume the mostly ceremonial role on March 18, succeeds Joachim Gauck who didn’t run for reelection.
In his acceptance speech, the newly elected president called Germany “an anchor for hope,” and said “the country should take on responsibility and serve as a role model for other countries,” Deutsche Welle reported.
Germany “inspires others to be brave, not because everything is well here, but because we’ve shown how much a country can improve,” the German daily quoted Steinmeier as saying.
Steinmeier also called on Germans to defend freedom and democracy in the EU, according to the report.
The result of the vote, conducted in a special assembly that included lawmakers as well as religious and civil society representatives, was expected.
President of the European Council Donald Tusk congratulated Steinmeier on his election. “Your appointment comes at a critical moment for Europe. The many external and internal challenges we are facing could hardly be more severe,” Tusk said in a statement. “In times like these, European unity is more important than ever, and I look forward to Germany’s cont to Spain … I say it with pride.”
The PP’s Socialist rivals are due to elect a new leader in May in what is expected to be a bitter contest. A senior party figure party recently described the upcoming election as the “Battle of Verdun.”
The insurgent, far-left Podemos, meanwhile, aimed to settle a longstanding dispute between the party’s leader, Pablo Iglesias, and his number two, Íñigo Errejón — with Iglesias carrying the day at the weekend congress.
The conservative leader mostly left the PP leadership team in place, including his number two, Cospedal, whose stacking of posts in the party and in the government has created some concern. Rajoy’s only slight change was his appointment of Fernando Martínez-Maillo as the general coordinator, effectively the number three position within the party.
A democratic reform of the party also appears out of sight. The PP remains the only big political force in Spain not to elect the leader in primaries open to all party members, using instead a more indirect vote in which regional party branches send delegates to the national congress.
Isabel Benjumea, who leads a small group of dissidents inside the party, said the PP had opted for a procedural congress “without debate” in order to “strengthen the leadership even more.”
“There is no meaningful internal opposition to Rajoy in the PP and the congress has only contributed to his strengthening,” said Pablo Montesinos, a reporter who has covered the PP since 2008 for Libertad Digital.
The Spanish prime minister has pitched his party as a big tent, inclusive and broad. “We offer common sense and moderation,” Rajoy said Sunday. “There’s room for everyone in this party.”
Swiss voters on Sunday appeared to back a measure to simplify the route to citizenship for third-generation immigrants, despite claims from right-wing campaigners that such a move could pose threats to national security.
Projections by public broadcaster SRF after polls closed Sunday showed the measure winning by a significant margin, according to reports.
The constitutional amendment would simplify the process of obtaining a Swiss passport for people born and raised in immigrant families in Switzerland.
About 25 percent of Switzerland’s population is foreign but fewer than 25,000 people qualify as third-generation immigrants, meaning at least one of their grandparents was born in the country or acquired residency and of those nearly 60 percent of are Italian.
The initial debate had nothing to do with religion until the SVP, an anti-Islam far-right party, began arguing that this would mean a loss of Swiss values. The party used posters showing a woman in a black niqab with the slogan that called on voters to reject “uncontrolled citizenship.”
A German special assembly elected Frank-Walter Steinmeier as the country’s next president Sunday.
The veteran Social Democrat and former foreign minister, who will assume the mostly ceremonial role on March 18, succeeds Joachim Gauck who didn’t run for reelection.
In his acceptance speech, the newly elected president called Germany “an anchor for hope,” and said “the country should take on responsibility and serve as a role model for other countries,” Deutsche Welle reported.
Germany “inspires others to be brave, not because everything is well here, but because we’ve shown how much a country can improve,” the German daily quoted Steinmeier as saying.
Steinmeier also called on Germans to defend freedom and democracy in the EU, according to the report.
The result of the vote, conducted in a special assembly that included lawmakers as well as religious and civil society representatives, was expected.
President of the European Council Donald Tusk congratulated Steinmeier on his election. “Your appointment comes at a critical moment for Europe. The many external and internal challenges we are facing could hardly be more severe,” Tusk said in a statement. “In times like these, European unity is more important than ever, and I look forward to Germany’s continued contribution to the European project.”
This article has been updated with the correct name of Deutsche Welle.
Jean-Claude Juncker, ruled out, once again, a second term as European Commission president, and called for a “more parliamentary system,” in an interview with German radio Deutschlandfunk on Saturday.
Ahead of a series of big elections, Brexit and next month’s 60th birthday party for the European Union, the president sounded a few alarms about divisions within the bloc.
“The fact that a country is leaving, above all a large, important, influential country, remains a continental tragedy in my opinion,” Juncker said, adding that he fears the U.K. will easily succeed in fostering division among the remaining 27 EU countries. “The other 27 are not yet aware of this, but the Brits know very well how they can tackle it,” he said.
The former Luxembourg prime minister became president in 2014, with the support of 26 out of 28 EU governments. He said he would stand down when his term as president ends in 2019.
The president also said that he is fed up with EU states scapegoating Brussels for their own failures, and that he is ready to hit back by modifying the EU’s decision-making process, which allows countries to saddle the Commission with the final call on critical but potentially unpopular policies.
“So this can not go on, this eternal theater that we are experiencing, that one decides in Brussels and that one criticizes at home what one has co-decided,” he said. 
Juncker also expressed support for a potential position of “Euro finance minister.” He said that the real question is what competences such a figure would have and to what extent they would be allowed to interfere with national budgets.
Looking back at his 2014 election campaign, Juncker said that he “fell in love with Europe again, because I then rediscovered the European Union’s richness in color.” The election campaign had been beautiful “but… I will not compete again,” he said.
In early April 2014, as the post-Cold War order roiled in the aftermath of Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula — the first forced annexation in Europe since the Second World War — Pat Buchanan asked a question. Taking to the column-inches at Townhall, Buchanan wondered aloud: “Whose side is God on now?”
As Moscow swamped Ukraine’s peninsula, holding a ballot-by-bayonet referendum while local Crimean Tatars began disappearing, Buchanan clarified his query. The former speechwriter for Richard Nixon and intellectual flag-bearer of paleoconservatism — that authoritarian strain of thought linking both white nationalists and US President Donald Trump — wrote that Russian President Vladimir Putin was “entering a claim that Moscow is the Godly City of today[.]” Despite Putin’s rank kleptocracy, and the threat Moscow suddenly posed to stability throughout Europe, Buchanan blushed with praise for Putin’s policies, writing, “In the culture war for the future of mankind, Putin is planting Russia’s flag firmly on the side of traditional Christianity.”
Three years on, it’s easy to skip past Buchanan’s piece in discussing Russian-American relations, drenched as they are in mutual sanctions and the reality that Moscow attempted to tip the scales in Trump’s favor during the election. But Buchanan’s article crystallized a paradigm shift in religious relations between Moscow and Washington, and in Moscow’s role within the global Christian right. Before 2014 Russia was largely seen as an importer for Christian fundamentalists, most especially from the U.S. But as the Kremlin dissolved diplomatic norms in 2014, Moscow began forging a new role for itself at the helm of the global Christian right.
And Moscow’s grip at the tiller of a globally resurgent right has only tightened since. Not only have Russian banks funded groups like France’s National Front, but Moscow has hosted international conferences on everything from neo-Nazi networking to domestic secessionists attempting to rupture the U.S. Meanwhile, American fundamentalists bent on unwinding minority protections in the U.S. have increasingly leaned on Russia for support — and for a model they’d bring to bear back home, from targeting LGBT communities to undoing abortion rights throughout the country.
“In the same sense that Russia’s [anti-LGBT] laws came about in 2013, we’ve seen similar sorts of laws proposed in Tennessee, for example,” Cole Parke, an LGBT researcher with Political Research Associates, told me. “It’s difficult to say in a chicken-and-egg sort of way who’s inspiring whom, but there’s definitely a correlation between the two movements.”
* * *
It’s no coincidence that Buchanan’s column, which outlined the players within the “cultural, social, moral war” between Russia and the “hedonistic” West, mentioned a semi-obscure group called the World Congress of Families. As Buchanan wrote, the WCF listed Russia’s emergence as a “Pro-Family Leader” as one of the “10 best trends” of 2013. Indeed, in order to outline how Russia challenged — and supplanted — the U.S. role as a clarion for Christian fundamentalists, you have to parse the WCF’s role, and the group’s attendant impact on Russian policy over the past few years.
Based out of Rockford, Ill., the WCF is an outgrowth of the Howard Center for Family, Religion and Society. Claiming that it wants to “help secure the foundations of society” by, among other things, defending “the natural family founded on marriage between a man and a woman,” the WCF is run by Brian Brown, who also acts as the co-founder and president of the far right, and vehemently anti-gay, National Organization for Marriage. Just this week, Brown landed in Moscow to, as BuzzFeed reported, help continue constructing trans-Atlantic links between Russia and the American Religious Right.
In the two decades since its formal founding in 1997 the WCF has become one of the primary poles around which far-right U.S. evangelicals have exported their fundamentalism, as well as one of the world’s foremost anti-LGBT organizations. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the WCF “is one of the key driving forces behind the U.S. Religious Right’s global export of homophobia” — not that the WCF would necessarily take offense to the charge.
In 2016, for instance, the WCF hosted a conference in Tbilisi, Georgia, in which, as Coda reported, speakers encouraged attendees to “stay firm against homofascists” and “rainbow radicals.” Conference topics ranged from how sexual education “undermine[s] the family and parental authority” to looking at how court systems push “Anti-family indoctrination.” (The WCF did not return multiple attempts for comment.)
But the WCF isn’t a wholly American export; this isn’t simply some effort to push Christian extremism alongside baseball and apple pie for foreign consumption. Rather, the WCF is a product of joint Russian-American homophobic ingenuity. As Christopher Stroop, a postdoctoral student at the University of South Florida, recently detailed, the WCF was the brainchild of Anatoly Antonov and Viktor Medkov, a pair of sociology professors at Lomonosov Moscow State University, and Allan Carlson, WCF’s current president emeritus.
The two Russians, according to Mother Jones, were casting about for a means to stave off their country’s looming “demographic winter” — the idea that progressive legislation, from birth control to LGBT rights, will precipitate civilizational collapse — and stumbled over Carlson’s prior work. Gathering in the apartment of a “Russian Orthodox mystic,” the trio outlined an organization that would help oversee a global Christian right — and restore Russia to a position abdicated during the atheistic Soviet period.
Indeed, while the West saw substantial progressive gains since the WCF’s inception, Russia underwent a stark lurch in the opposite direction. Not only has Moscow, most especially under Putin’s third term, grabbed the rudder of the global anti-gay movement, but it has further unraveled even the most basic abortion rights protocols. To wit, in 2011 the Kremlin enacted an anti-abortion bill that, as The Nation wrote, “many pro-choice activists regard as the first volley in an effort to ban the procedure altogether.”
But this legislation didn’t arise in a vacuum, especially when Moscow was the world’s first to legalize the procedure. Rather, those Russian legislators pushing a domestic abortion clampdown looked to their American colleagues — specifically, the WCF — for inspiration. After all, the package of abortion restrictions, speared by Duma member Yelena Mizulina, was launched a day after a series of WCF honchos, including Carlson and Managing Director Larry Jacobs, settled into Moscow for a “Demographic Summit,” the WCF’s most substantial assembly in Russia to date.
As the head of a Russian women’s advocacy group later said, “It was 100-percent clear that everything [in the anti-abortion legislation] was copied from the experience of American fundamentalists and conservative circles of several European countries where abortion is forbidden or restricted severely.” Or as the WCF would later claim in its promotional material: The WCF “helped pass the first Russian laws restricting abortion in modern history.”
* * *
Shortly after the summit’s close, Putin announced plans to return to the presidency, supplanting then-President Dmitry Medvedev. Buffeted by a flat economy, Putin shored up his support by tacking to a nativist, nationalist — and resentful — base. In the first 18 months after his return to the presidency in 2012, Putin corralled protesters, smothered many of the remaining independent media outlets, and dissolved the distance between the Kremlin and the hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church. All of his moves pointed toward a hard-right shift in outlook — to a return to Tsar Nicholas I’s triumvirate of “Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality.”
America’s Christian fundamentalists followed Putin’s moves with glee — all the more after then-President Barack Obama earned a second term, and same-sex rights charged forward. In 2013, Moscow pushed an “anti-propaganda law” specifically targeting the country’s beleaguered LGBT population. Despite widespread condemnation throughout the West, members of America’s Religious Right tripped over themselves in supporting the Kremlin.
Likewise, as a Daily Beast report found, the “anti-propaganda law,” like the anti-abortion measures before it, didn’t arise in some kind of retrograde ether, but “had emerged from a years-long, carefully crafted campaign to influence governments to adopt a Christian-Right legal framework” — stemming from the efforts of both American and Russian WCF officials who had “successfully disseminated a U.S.-born culture war that’s wreaking havoc on women and queer folks all around the world.” Even Moscow’s ban on Americans adopting Russian children that year managed to gain support within the U.S.’s far right, with Christian fundamentalists praising Putin’s move as preventing children from living with same-sex parents.
And then, in early 2014, Russia began its invasion of southern Ukraine, claiming Crimea and sparking sanctions, animus and the downing of Flight MH17 — the destruction of which almost certainly came at the hands of Russia-backed separatists. In the midst of the greatest breach between the Kremlin and the White House in decades, the WCF confirmed plans to host its annual September 2014 conference in Moscow. Suddenly, though, a pair of the WCF’s biggest boosters in Russia — Mizulina and former Russian Railways chief Vladimir Yakunin — were placed on the U.S. sanctions list. Citing “uncertainties surrounding sanctions,” the WCF pulled its official imprimatur from the conference.
But that didn’t stop WCF higher-ups from attending the conclave, rechristened “Large Families: The Future of Humanity,” or from cementing further links with those close to the Kremlin. Not only have WCF fundamentalists continued building ties with ultra-Orthodox oligarch Konstantin Malofeev, but, as Stroop told me, the conference “was pretty much what it was supposed to be.” (To get a taste of Malofeev’s views, he believes Orthodox Christians can’t be fascist because “Russians suffered from Nazis more than any other nation in the world.”) As journalist Hannah Levintova wrote in 2014, the conference went off with a “nearly identical title” and took place “in the same location, on the same dates, and with a similar schedule[.]” For good measure, Alexey Komov, the WCF’s official Russian representative, told a Russian media outlet the WCF was still helping organize the conference.
This time, though, something was different. Two years into Putin’s third term, and a few months after the Kremlin upended the post-Cold War order, Russia was coalescing support from far-right forces across the West, ranging from the white nationalists who would buoy Trump’s campaign to political groups bent on fracturing NATO and the European Union. While Washington pushed toward legalization of same-sex marriage, Russia, to Christian fundamentalists on both sides of the Atlantic, suddenly regressed into the world’s primary bulwark for nominally “traditional” values.
The 2014 conference, Stroop told me, was “a crystallization of this moment of nationalization and exporting [of nominally ‘traditional’ values] on the Russian side — of Russia taking the lead. … There was a moment when Mizulina was saying that it would be impossible for this kind of conference to take place in Europe or America right now.” Mizulina, of course, was mistaken; the 2015 conference took place in Salt Lake City, just a few months after the Obergefell decision legalized same-sex marriage across America.
But in that milieu, in that broader political moment, Russia, to those following the threads of Christian fundamentalism, made a play at wresting control of the global Christian right from the U.S. And Moscow may well have succeeded — and has now even surpassed its American counterparts in terms of regressive social legislation, recently pulling back criminal penalties for domestic violence. As Stroop added, recalling the aftermath of the 2014 conference, “Russia is taking on the mantle of leadership of global social conservatism. … [That conference] gave Russia the chance to say, ‘We’re the leaders here.’ And people have responded to that, and followed along.”
* * *
After all, it’s not as if it’s difficult to unearth the fundamentalists fawning over Putin’s putative turn toward God. For instance, according to Bryan Fischer, who until 2015 was a spokesman for the American Family Association, Putin is the “lion of Christianity.” Evangelical Franklin Graham has likewise lauded Putin as someone “protecting traditional Christianity,” while Buchanan only continues praising Putin.
Even recent frictions — see: Russia’s recent legislation against non-Orthodox proselytizing — have hardly dampened US fundamentalists’ newfound fervor for Moscow. And if Trump, who’s been as lax as any Republican president on social issues as any in decades, decides to deprioritize rolling back same-sex or abortion rights, the U.S. far right will look to Moscow even further support, ensconcing the Kremlin’s position that much more.
We might not know, per Buchanan’s early questions, whose side God is on. But those in Russia are happy to return the support from America’s radical Christian extremists — and clutch the mantle of Christian fundamentalist leadership as long as they can, even after Trump’s election. “They’re using the history of anti-communism as a means of making a point,” Stroop told me. “They’re saying: ‘We survived communism, and so we know how to resist it.’ And they’re playing right into this whole script, which is a Cold War script, that communism and secularism are the same thing.”
It remains to be seen how the trans-Atlantic Christian fundamentalist relationship shifts under Trump, whose pockets, like Putin, arinued contribution to the European project.”
This article has been updated with the correct name of Deutsche Welle.
Jean-Claude Juncker, ruled out, once again, a second term as European Commission president, and called for a “more parliamentary system,” in an interview with German radio Deutschlandfunk on Saturday.
Ahead of a series of big elections, Brexit and next month’s 60th birthday party for the European Union, the president sounded a few alarms about divisions within the bloc.
“The fact that a country is leaving, above all a large, important, influential country, remains a continental tragedy in my opinion,” Juncker said, adding that he fears the U.K. will easily succeed in fostering division among the remaining 27 EU countries. “The other 27 are not yet aware of this, but the Brits know very well how they can tackle it,” he said.
The former Luxembourg prime minister became president in 2014, with the support of 26 out of 28 EU governments. He said he would stand down when his term as president ends in 2019.
The president also said that he is fed up with EU states scapegoating Brussels for their own failures, and that he is ready to hit back by modifying the EU’s decision-making process, which allows countries to saddle the Commission with the final call on critical but potentially unpopular policies.
“So this can not go on, this eternal theater that we are experiencing, that one decides in Brussels and that one criticizes at home what one has co-decided,” he said. 
Juncker also expressed support for a potential position of “Euro finance minister.” He said that the real question is what competences such a figure would have and to what extent they would be allowed to interfere with national budgets.
Looking back at his 2014 election campaign, Juncker said that he “fell in love with Europe again, because I then rediscovered the European Union’s richness in color.” The election campaign had been beautiful “but… I will not compete again,” he said.
In early April 2014, as the post-Cold War order roiled in the aftermath of Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula — the first forced annexation in Europe since the Second World War — Pat Buchanan asked a question. Taking to the column-inches at Townhall, Buchanan wondered aloud: “Whose side is God on now?”
As Moscow swamped Ukraine’s peninsula, holding a ballot-by-bayonet referendum while local Crimean Tatars began disappearing, Buchanan clarified his query. The former speechwriter for Richard Nixon and intellectual flag-bearer of paleoconservatism — that authoritarian strain of thought linking both white nationalists and US President Donald Trump — wrote that Russian President Vladimir Putin was “entering a claim that Moscow is the Godly City of today[.]” Despite Putin’s rank kleptocracy, and the threat Moscow suddenly posed to stability throughout Europe, Buchanan blushed with praise for Putin’s policies, writing, “In the culture war for the future of mankind, Putin is planting Russia’s flag firmly on the side of traditional Christianity.”
Three years on, it’s easy to skip past Buchanan’s piece in discussing Russian-American relations, drenched as they are in mutual sanctions and the reality that Moscow attempted to tip the scales in Trump’s favor during the election. But Buchanan’s article crystallized a paradigm shift in religious relations between Moscow and Washington, and in Moscow’s role within the global Christian right. Before 2014 Russia was largely seen as an importer for Christian fundamentalists, most especially from the U.S. But as the Kremlin dissolved diplomatic norms in 2014, Moscow began forging a new role for itself at the helm of the global Christian right.
And Moscow’s grip at the tiller of a globally resurgent right has only tightened since. Not only have Russian banks funded groups like France’s National Front, but Moscow has hosted international conferences on everything from neo-Nazi networking to domestic secessionists attempting to rupture the U.S. Meanwhile, American fundamentalists bent on unwinding minority protections in the U.S. have increasingly leaned on Russia for support — and for a model they’d bring to bear back home, from targeting LGBT communities to undoing abortion rights throughout the country.
“In the same sense that Russia’s [anti-LGBT] laws came about in 2013, we’ve seen similar sorts of laws proposed in Tennessee, for example,” Cole Parke, an LGBT researcher with Political Research Associates, told me. “It’s difficult to say in a chicken-and-egg sort of way who’s inspiring whom, but there’s definitely a correlation between the two movements.”
* * *
It’s no coincidence that Buchanan’s column, which outlined the players within the “cultural, social, moral war” between Russia and the “hedonistic” West, mentioned a semi-obscure group called the World Congress of Families. As Buchanan wrote, the WCF listed Russia’s emergence as a “Pro-Family Leader” as one of the “10 best trends” of 2013. Indeed, in order to outline how Russia challenged — and supplanted — the U.S. role as a clarion for Christian fundamentalists, you have to parse the WCF’s role, and the group’s attendant impact on Russian policy over the past few years.
Based out of Rockford, Ill., the WCF is an outgrowth of the Howard Center for Family, Religion and Society. Claiming that it wants to “help secure the foundations of society” by, among other things, defending “the natural family founded on marriage between a man and a woman,” the WCF is run by Brian Brown, who also acts as the co-founder and president of the far right, and vehemently anti-gay, National Organization for Marriage. Just this week, Brown landed in Moscow to, as BuzzFeed reported, help continue constructing trans-Atlantic links between Russia and the American Religious Right.
In the two decades since its formal founding in 1997 the WCF has become one of the primary poles around which far-right U.S. evangelicals have exported their fundamentalism, as well as one of the world’s foremost anti-LGBT organizations. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the WCF “is one of the key driving forces behind the U.S. Religious Right’s global export of homophobia” — not that the WCF would necessarily take offense to the charge.
In 2016, for instance, the WCF hosted a conference in Tbilisi, Georgia, in which, as Coda reported, speakers encouraged attendees to “stay firm against homofascists” and “rainbow radicals.” Conference topics ranged from how sexual education “undermine[s] the family and parental authority” to looking at how court systems push “Anti-family indoctrination.” (The WCF did not return multiple attempts for comment.)
But the WCF isn’t a wholly American export; this isn’t simply some effort to push Christian extremism alongside baseball and apple pie for foreign consumption. Rather, the WCF is a product of joint Russian-American homophobic ingenuity. As Christopher Stroop, a postdoctoral student at the University of South Florida, recently detailed, the WCF was the brainchild of Anatoly Antonov and Viktor Medkov, a pair of sociology professors at Lomonosov Moscow State University, and Allan Carlson, WCF’s current president emeritus.
The two Russians, according to Mother Jones, were casting about for a means to stave off their country’s looming “demographic winter” — the idea that progressive legislation, from birth control to LGBT rights, will precipitate civilizational collapse — and stumbled over Carlson’s prior work. Gathering in the apartment of a “Russian Orthodox mystic,” the trio outlined an organization that would help oversee a global Christian right — and restore Russia to a position abdicated during the atheistic Soviet period.
Indeed, while the West saw substantial progressive gains since the WCF’s inception, Russia underwent a stark lurch in the opposite direction. Not only has Moscow, most especially under Putin’s third term, grabbed the rudder of the global anti-gay movement, but it has further unraveled even the most basic abortion rights protocols. To wit, in 2011 the Kremlin enacted an anti-abortion bill that, as The Nation wrote, “many pro-choice activists regard as the first volley in an effort to ban the procedure altogether.”
But this legislation didn’t arise in a vacuum, especially when Moscow was the world’s first to legalize the procedure. Rather, those Russian legislators pushing a domestic abortion clampdown looked to their American colleagues — specifically, the WCF — for inspiration. After all, the package of abortion restrictions, speared by Duma member Yelena Mizulina, was launched a day after a series of WCF honchos, including Carlson and Managing Director Larry Jacobs, settled into Moscow for a “Demographic Summit,” the WCF’s most substantial assembly in Russia to date.
As the head of a Russian women’s advocacy group later said, “It was 100-percent clear that everything [in the anti-abortion legislation] was copied from the experience of American fundamentalists and conservative circles of several European countries where abortion is forbidden or restricted severely.” Or as the WCF would later claim in its promotional material: The WCF “helped pass the first Russian laws restricting abortion in modern history.”
* * *
Shortly after the summit’s close, Putin announced plans to return to the presidency, supplanting then-President Dmitry Medvedev. Buffeted by a flat economy, Putin shored up his support by tacking to a nativist, nationalist — and resentful — base. In the first 18 months after his return to the presidency in 2012, Putin corralled protesters, smothered many of the remaining independent media outlets, and dissolved the distance between the Kremlin and the hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church. All of his moves pointed toward a hard-right shift in outlook — to a return to Tsar Nicholas I’s triumvirate of “Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality.”
America’s Christian fundamentalists followed Putin’s moves with glee — all the more after then-President Barack Obama earned a second term, and same-sex rights charged forward. In 2013, Moscow pushed an “anti-propaganda law” specifically targeting the country’s beleaguered LGBT population. Despite widespread condemnation throughout the West, members of America’s Religious Right tripped over themselves in supporting the Kremlin.
Likewise, as a Daily Beast report found, the “anti-propaganda law,” like the anti-abortion measures before it, didn’t arise in some kind of retrograde ether, but “had emerged from a years-long, carefully crafted campaign to influence governments to adopt a Christian-Right legal framework” — stemming from the efforts of both American and Russian WCF officials who had “successfully disseminated a U.S.-born culture war that’s wreaking havoc on women and queer folks all around the world.” Even Moscow’s ban on Americans adopting Russian children that year managed to gain support within the U.S.’s far right, with Christian fundamentalists praising Putin’s move as preventing children from living with same-sex parents.
And then, in early 2014, Russia began its invasion of southern Ukraine, claiming Crimea and sparking sanctions, animus and the downing of Flight MH17 — the destruction of which almost certainly came at the hands of Russia-backed separatists. In the midst of the greatest breach between the Kremlin and the White House in decades, the WCF confirmed plans to host its annual September 2014 conference in Moscow. Suddenly, though, a pair of the WCF’s biggest boosters in Russia — Mizulina and former Russian Railways chief Vladimir Yakunin — were placed on the U.S. sanctions list. Citing “uncertainties surrounding sanctions,” the WCF pulled its official imprimatur from the conference.
But that didn’t stop WCF higher-ups from attending the conclave, rechristened “Large Families: The Future of Humanity,” or from cementing further links with those close to the Kremlin. Not only have WCF fundamentalists continued building ties with ultra-Orthodox oligarch Konstantin Malofeev, but, as Stroop told me, the conference “was pretty much what it was supposed to be.” (To get a taste of Malofeev’s views, he believes Orthodox Christians can’t be fascist because “Russians suffered from Nazis more than any other nation in the world.”) As journalist Hannah Levintova wrote in 2014, the conference went off with a “nearly identical title” and took place “in the same location, on the same dates, and with a similar schedule[.]” For good measure, Alexey Komov, the WCF’s official Russian representative, told a Russian media outlet the WCF was still helping organize the conference.
This time, though, something was different. Two years into Putin’s third term, and a few months after the Kremlin upended the post-Cold War order, Russia was coalescing support from far-right forces across the West, ranging from the white nationalists who would buoy Trump’s campaign to political groups bent on fracturing NATO and the European Union. While Washington pushed toward legalization of same-sex marriage, Russia, to Christian fundamentalists on both sides of the Atlantic, suddenly regressed into the world’s primary bulwark for nominally “traditional” values.
The 2014 conference, Stroop told me, was “a crystallization of this moment of nationalization and exporting [of nominally ‘traditional’ values] on the Russian side — of Russia taking the lead. … There was a moment when Mizulina was saying that it would be impossible for this kind of conference to take place in Europe or America right now.” Mizulina, of course, was mistaken; the 2015 conference took place in Salt Lake City, just a few months after the Obergefell decision legalized same-sex marriage across America.
But in that milieu, in that broader political moment, Russia, to those following the threads of Christian fundamentalism, made a play at wresting control of the global Christian right from the U.S. And Moscow may well have succeeded — and has now even surpassed its American counterparts in terms of regressive social legislation, recently pulling back criminal penalties for domestic violence. As Stroop added, recalling the aftermath of the 2014 conference, “Russia is taking on the mantle of leadership of global social conservatism. … [That conference] gave Russia the chance to say, ‘We’re the leaders here.’ And people have responded to that, and followed along.”
* * *
After all, it’s not as if it’s difficult to unearth the fundamentalists fawning over Putin’s putative turn toward God. For instance, according to Bryan Fischer, who until 2015 was a spokesman for the American Family Association, Putin is the “lion of Christianity.” Evangelical Franklin Graham has likewise lauded Putin as someone “protecting traditional Christianity,” while Buchanan only continues praising Putin.
Even recent frictions — see: Russia’s recent legislation against non-Orthodox proselytizing — have hardly dampened US fundamentalists’ newfound fervor for Moscow. And if Trump, who’s been as lax as any Republican president on social issues as any in decades, decides to deprioritize rolling back same-sex or abortion rights, the U.S. far right will look to Moscow even further support, ensconcing the Kremlin’s position that much more.
We might not know, per Buchanan’s early questions, whose side God is on. But those in Russia are happy to return the support from America’s radical Christian extremists — and clutch the mantle of Christian fundamentalist leadership as long as they can, even after Trump’s election. “They’re using the history of anti-communism as a means of making a point,” Stroop told me. “They’re saying: ‘We survived communism, and so we know how to resist it.’ And they’re playing right into this whole script, which is a Cold War script, that communism and secularism are the same thing.”
It remains to be seen how the trans-Atlantic Christian fundamentalist relationship shifts under Trump, whose pockets, like Putin, are clearly far deeper than his godliness. For the time being, though, there’s a clear head of the global Christian right. As the WCF’s Jacobs said following the 2014 enclave in Moscow, “I think Russia is the hope for the world right now.”
Casey Michel is a writer living in New York, and can be followed on Twitter at @cjcmichel. This article is adapted from a forthcoming report, entitled “The Rise of the ‘Traditionalist International’: How Moscow cultivates American white nationalists, domestic secessionists, and the Religious Right,” from People For the American Way.
MEET LITTLE CASPER, THE EU PROPAGANDA ROBOT: Sometimes the EU almost gets it right, but falls just short. EU money has been used to develop a robot that helps children with cancer through their treatment and hospital stays. Bravo! The snag? The robot’s eyes are EU flags. Little Casper is not to be confused with his cousin Kaspar, an English robot that’s also been developed thanks to the EU’s BabyRobot project. Kaspar is used to help children with autism and does not have EU flags for eyes.
WHICH … global tech firm has annoyed lobbyists in Brussels by using a recruitment algorithm to reject their online applications for a vacant position, without a human viewing their CVs or meeting them?
‘BONFIRE OF THE SANITIES’: That’s the witty title of the 2017 EU Press Revue, set for March 11. If you’ve never been, think of it like the White House Correspondents’ Dinner with less red carpet and Donald Trump. If you haven’t got a ticket, you’ll have to beg, steal or borrow one as it’s already sold out.
BONFIRE OF THE MORNING FLIGHTS: From February 22 the Brussels region will move its flight curfew time at Brussels’ main Zaventem airport, meaning no flights before 7.a.m, and big fines for any airline that breaks noise limits during the day. Another side effect: Ryanair has stopped adding flights to its Zaventem schedule in protest, and will expand from Charleroi airport instead. “Politicians do crazy things. If no solution is found, we will move some aircraft away from the Zaventem base to airports outside of Belgium,” Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary said.
AIR PASSENGER RIGHTS DEAL REACHED: A simulation exercise at the College of Europe in Bruges saw students assume the roles of transport commissioner, MEPs and journalists to find a way to get the long-delayed air passenger rights file moving under the watchful gaze of experts. First up they resolved a standoff over Gibraltar between the U.K. and Spain, and went on to deliver an acceptable definition of “night time” for flights. Playbook suggests the students offer their services to Zaventem airport.
OVERHEARD: A table of folks in Brussels’ Sainte Catherine neighborhood (EU-related expats, we reckon) musing that instead of worrying about “alternative facts” maybe we should be giving U.S. President Trump alternative names. Their suggestions included Donald Gump, Donatello Trump and Dohammed Trump.
BREXIT PUB ETIQUETTE: European Commission spokesperson Margaritis Schinas has a new strategy for explaining Britain’s bill for exiting the EU (aka the world’s most expensive divorce). “You still need to pay for your round,” Schinas told reporters, drawing an analogy with a night out in the pub.
ROMANIAN MEP FLIRTS WITH DANGER: In a Facebook post, Romanian Social Democrat MEP Sorin Moisă distanced himself from his party and supported anti-government demonstrators in Bucharest.
“There comes a moment when silence becomes guilty … We have a reached a point of unbearable tension, and therefore I will express myself, whatever the consequences,” Moisă wrote. “I support the demand of protestors.” The Romanian government caved the next day, agreeing to drop controversial justice plans that many felt were a way of letting corrupt politicians off the hook.
EUONYM OF THE WEEK: The name of the new economic adviser to European Parliament Secretary-General Klaus Welle? Stanislas de Finance.
FEUD OF THE WEEK: John Bercow vs Donald Trump. The speaker of the House e clearly far deeper than his godliness. For the time being, though, there’s a clear head of the global Christian right. As the WCF’s Jacobs said following the 2014 enclave in Moscow, “I think Russia is the hope for the world right now.”
Casey Michel is a writer living in New York, and can be followed on Twitter at @cjcmichel. This article is adapted from a forthcoming report, entitled “The Rise of the ‘Traditionalist International’: How Moscow cultivates American white nationalists, domestic secessionists, and the Religious Right,” from People For the American Way.
MEET LITTLE CASPER, THE EU PROPAGANDA ROBOT: Sometimes the EU almost gets it right, but falls just short. EU money has been used to develop a robot that helps children with cancer through their treatment and hospital stays. Bravo! The snag? The robot’s eyes are EU flags. Little Casper is not to be confused with his cousin Kaspar, an English robot that’s also been developed thanks to the EU’s BabyRobot project. Kaspar is used to help children with autism and does not have EU flags for eyes.
WHICH … global tech firm has annoyed lobbyists in Brussels by using a recruitment algorithm to reject their online applications for a vacant position, without a human viewing their CVs or meeting them?
‘BONFIRE OF THE SANITIES’: That’s the witty title of the 2017 EU Press Revue, set for March 11. If you’ve never been, think of it like the White House Correspondents’ Dinner with less red carpet and Donald Trump. If you haven’t got a ticket, you’ll have to beg, steal or borrow one as it’s already sold out.
BONFIRE OF THE MORNING FLIGHTS: From February 22 the Brussels region will move its flight curfew time at Brussels’ main Zaventem airport, meaning no flights before 7.a.m, and big fines for any airline that breaks noise limits during the day. Another side effect: Ryanair has stopped adding flights to its Zaventem schedule in protest, and will expand from Charleroi airport instead. “Politicians do crazy things. If no solution is found, we will move some aircraft away from the Zaventem base to airports outside of Belgium,” Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary said.
AIR PASSENGER RIGHTS DEAL REACHED: A simulation exercise at the College of Europe in Bruges saw students assume the roles of transport commissioner, MEPs and journalists to find a way to get the long-delayed air passenger rights file moving under the watchful gaze of experts. First up they resolved a standoff over Gibraltar between the U.K. and Spain, and went on to deliver an acceptable definition of “night time” for flights. Playbook suggests the students offer their services to Zaventem airport.
OVERHEARD: A table of folks in Brussels’ Sainte Catherine neighborhood (EU-related expats, we reckon) musing that instead of worrying about “alternative facts” maybe we should be giving U.S. President Trump alternative names. Their suggestions included Donald Gump, Donatello Trump and Dohammed Trump.
BREXIT PUB ETIQUETTE: European Commission spokesperson Margaritis Schinas has a new strategy for explaining Britain’s bill for exiting the EU (aka the world’s most expensive divorce). “You still need to pay for your round,” Schinas told reporters, drawing an analogy with a night out in the pub.
ROMANIAN MEP FLIRTS WITH DANGER: In a Facebook post, Romanian Social Democrat MEP Sorin Moisă distanced himself from his party and supported anti-government demonstrators in Bucharest.
“There comes a moment when silence becomes guilty … We have a reached a point of unbearable tension, and therefore I will express myself, whatever the consequences,” Moisă wrote. “I support the demand of protestors.” The Romanian government caved the next day, agreeing to drop controversial justice plans that many felt were a way of letting corrupt politicians off the hook.
EUONYM OF THE WEEK: The name of the new economic adviser to European Parliament Secretary-General Klaus Welle? Stanislas de Finance.
FEUD OF THE WEEK: John Bercow vs Donald Trump. The speaker of the House of Commons was accused of overstepping the mark by saying the U.S. president would not be welcome in the British parliament. Bercow told MPs that “opposition to racism and sexism” and support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary were “hugely important considerations,” as he confirmed that he would not support any invitation for Trump to speak in parliament. Former cabinet minister John Whittingdale accused Bercow of “playing to the gallery.”

GAFFES AND LAUGHS …
Which: Middle Eastern royal flies his 747 plane to Brussels every two months for a haircut and to ship back pallets of Spa mineral water?
MEP’s assistant accused of being oppsition mole: You might remember Ileana Grigorescu as the MEP’s assistant who stood up to Viorica Dăncilă MEP after the elected representative emailed the entire European Parliament to massage the facts on Romania’s emergency decree decriminalizing corruption cases. One angry Romanian wrote to Grigorescu’s boss, British Tory Andrew Lewer, denouncing her as a
spy. Grigorescu told us she is supposedly a plant of Traian Băsescu, a former Romanian president.
All’s Welle that ends Welle? Which member of Klaus Welle’s team asked Playbook to remove a public weblink to their LinkedIn profile from a story we wrote about Welle’s new team? Memo to Parliament staff: Your LinkedIn profiles are supposed to be seen, that’s the point of them.
SEPARATED AT BIRTH: French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Portuguese counterpart José Azeredo Lopes.

BY THE NUMBERS:
200: The number of presidential executive orders that officials in the Trump White House told POLITICO they’ve drafted. Thanks to the debacle over the immigration order, the pace of the rollout has slowed.
20 percent: The EU’s carbon emissions reduction target by 2020.
4 percent: The reduction in CO2 emissions from the EU cement industry since 2005 that the European Cement Association bragged about on Twitter last week.
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “Thank you, have a nice day. I will now see the president of Azerbaijan, so the most pleasant part of the day is over.” — European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to reporters at the end of a news conference.
WHO’S UP
Martin Schulz: The former European Parliament president’s candidacy is boosting the SPD in opinion polls ahead of the German election in September.
Law-abiding Muslims: No longer banned (for now) from the United States.
WHO’S DOWN
Ted Malloch: The businessman tipped — mainly by himself — to be Trump’s ambassador to the EU is facing attacks from EU leaders and MEPs already.
Sorin Grindeanu: Romania’s prime minister was forced by huge protests to back down on a decree that would have decriminalized certain types of graft.
President Donald Trump intervened at the last moment to deny Rex Tillerson his pick to be deputy secretary of state — former deputy national security adviser Elliott Abrams.
The president overruled his secretary of state — following meeting with Tillerson, Abrams and son-in-law Jared Kushner — after reading news reports about their meeting, which included references to Abrams’ criticisms of Trump during last year’s presidential campaign, according to people familiar with the decision. Though his staff was aware of Abrams’ statements, the president was not — until he read news reports about their meeting earlier this week.
“The core point here is that this comes from Trump’s thin-skinnedness,” said a top Republican strategist who supported the Abrams appointment. “He is the problem, this is all he cares about.”
While Abrams didn’t sign any of the so-called “Never Trump” letters that emerged from the Republican foreign policy establishment during the campaign, he said publicly that neither Trump nor his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton was fit to be president.
Tillerson, the former Exxon Mobil CEO, wanted the deep government experience Abrams would have brought to the position.
“It really speaks so poorly of Trump,” said Eric Edelman, a former United States amof Commons was accused of overstepping the mark by saying the U.S. president would not be welcome in the British parliament. Bercow told MPs that “opposition to racism and sexism” and support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary were “hugely important considerations,” as he confirmed that he would not support any invitation for Trump to speak in parliament. Former cabinet minister John Whittingdale accused Bercow of “playing to the gallery.”

GAFFES AND LAUGHS …
Which: Middle Eastern royal flies his 747 plane to Brussels every two months for a haircut and to ship back pallets of Spa mineral water?
MEP’s assistant accused of being oppsition mole: You might remember Ileana Grigorescu as the MEP’s assistant who stood up to Viorica Dăncilă MEP after the elected representative emailed the entire European Parliament to massage the facts on Romania’s emergency decree decriminalizing corruption cases. One angry Romanian wrote to Grigorescu’s boss, British Tory Andrew Lewer, denouncing her as a
spy. Grigorescu told us she is supposedly a plant of Traian Băsescu, a former Romanian president.
All’s Welle that ends Welle? Which member of Klaus Welle’s team asked Playbook to remove a public weblink to their LinkedIn profile from a story we wrote about Welle’s new team? Memo to Parliament staff: Your LinkedIn profiles are supposed to be seen, that’s the point of them.
SEPARATED AT BIRTH: French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Portuguese counterpart José Azeredo Lopes.

BY THE NUMBERS:
200: The number of presidential executive orders that officials in the Trump White House told POLITICO they’ve drafted. Thanks to the debacle over the immigration order, the pace of the rollout has slowed.
20 percent: The EU’s carbon emissions reduction target by 2020.
4 percent: The reduction in CO2 emissions from the EU cement industry since 2005 that the European Cement Association bragged about on Twitter last week.
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “Thank you, have a nice day. I will now see the president of Azerbaijan, so the most pleasant part of the day is over.” — European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to reporters at the end of a news conference.
WHO’S UP
Martin Schulz: The former European Parliament president’s candidacy is boosting the SPD in opinion polls ahead of the German election in September.
Law-abiding Muslims: No longer banned (for now) from the United States.
WHO’S DOWN
Ted Malloch: The businessman tipped — mainly by himself — to be Trump’s ambassador to the EU is facing attacks from EU leaders and MEPs already.
Sorin Grindeanu: Romania’s prime minister was forced by huge protests to back down on a decree that would have decriminalized certain types of graft.
President Donald Trump intervened at the last moment to deny Rex Tillerson his pick to be deputy secretary of state — former deputy national security adviser Elliott Abrams.
The president overruled his secretary of state — following meeting with Tillerson, Abrams and son-in-law Jared Kushner — after reading news reports about their meeting, which included references to Abrams’ criticisms of Trump during last year’s presidential campaign, according to people familiar with the decision. Though his staff was aware of Abrams’ statements, the president was not — until he read news reports about their meeting earlier this week.
“The core point here is that this comes from Trump’s thin-skinnedness,” said a top Republican strategist who supported the Abrams appointment. “He is the problem, this is all he cares about.”
While Abrams didn’t sign any of the so-called “Never Trump” letters that emerged from the Republican foreign policy establishment during the campaign, he said publicly that neither Trump nor his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton was fit to be president.
Tillerson, the former Exxon Mobil CEO, wanted the deep government experience Abrams would have brought to the position.
“It really speaks so poorly of Trump,” said Eric Edelman, a former United States ambassador to Turkey and undersecretary of defense in the George W. Bush administration. “It robs him of somebody who could have helped him enormously because they know the State Department extremely well and would have been respected enormously by the foreign service officers who work with him.”
On the right, Abrams’ supporters had put elbow grease into advancing his cause. Since December, Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton had been making the case for Abrams not only with Tillerson, but also with Priebus, Kushner and Trump’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon. In particular, Cotton assuaged their concerns that Abrams, who played a peripheral role in the Iran-Contra scandal, would face a tough Senate confirmation.
Cotton assured them repeatedly that Abrams’ confirmation was a “100 percent certainty,” according to a source familiar with the conversations.
Abrams, known as a right-wing hawk, was also winning bipartisan support both inside and outside of the administration. Key Democrats — including Chris Coons and Tim Kaine of Virginia — said they were inclined to support his nomination.
In foreign policy circles and on Capitol Hill, the president’s decision is sparking concerns that by overruling his secretary of state on a key personnel decision in a semi-public manner, he is weakening the country’s top diplomat out of the gate.
One Republican senator worried that foreign leaders look to a secretary of state to have a strong personal relationship with the president — and this is not the way to show the strength of that relationship.
“Now everybody knows he doesn’t have any juice with Trump,” said the GOP strategist. “He can’t even get his own people in.”
The White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Abrams’ name appeared last week as an attendee at Trump’s meeting with Tillerson in standard off-the-record guidance sent to reporters from the White House press office, sparking speculation that Abrams had emerged as a top choice for Tillerson — and, subsequently, as evidence that Trump had overruled his secretary of state.
“It speaks well of Secretary Tillerson that he was looking at Elliott,” Edelman said. “Does this really mean Trump can’t take any criticism? Well, we know the answer to that.”
The British government is believed to be planning Donald Trump’s visit to the U.K. for the summer, to avoid controversy over whether he should address parliament.
The Guardian reported Friday that the state visit is expected to run from Thursday to Sunday in either late summer or early autumn, probably during parliament’s summer recess.
The move follows comments from Speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow who said he was “strongly opposed” to Trump speaking in parliament, saying that MPs’ “opposition to racism and to sexism” should be taken into account.
Officials are also, according to the report, keen to limit Trump’s exposure to the public to reduce the number of protests.
Theresa May’s announcement that the Queen had invited Trump for a state visit led to a petition signed by more than 1.8 million people, calling for the monarch to be spared a meeting with the U.S. president.
Reports that national security adviser Michael Flynn may have discussed U.S. sanctions with the Russian ambassador before President Donald Trump’s inauguration has revived concerns about Flynn’s relationships with Moscow — and threatens to entangle a member of the administration who has so far mostly dodged controversy: Vice President Mike Pence.
Pence said in a Jan. 15 appearance on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that Flynn’s conversations with the Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak were “strictly coincidental” and had nothing to do with the Obama administration’s decision to punish Russia for meddling in the November election. “They did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia,” Pence told CBS.
An administration official told POLITICO that Pence’s remarks came after a convebassador to Turkey and undersecretary of defense in the George W. Bush administration. “It robs him of somebody who could have helped him enormously because they know the State Department extremely well and would have been respected enormously by the foreign service officers who work with him.”
On the right, Abrams’ supporters had put elbow grease into advancing his cause. Since December, Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton had been making the case for Abrams not only with Tillerson, but also with Priebus, Kushner and Trump’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon. In particular, Cotton assuaged their concerns that Abrams, who played a peripheral role in the Iran-Contra scandal, would face a tough Senate confirmation.
Cotton assured them repeatedly that Abrams’ confirmation was a “100 percent certainty,” according to a source familiar with the conversations.
Abrams, known as a right-wing hawk, was also winning bipartisan support both inside and outside of the administration. Key Democrats — including Chris Coons and Tim Kaine of Virginia — said they were inclined to support his nomination.
In foreign policy circles and on Capitol Hill, the president’s decision is sparking concerns that by overruling his secretary of state on a key personnel decision in a semi-public manner, he is weakening the country’s top diplomat out of the gate.
One Republican senator worried that foreign leaders look to a secretary of state to have a strong personal relationship with the president — and this is not the way to show the strength of that relationship.
“Now everybody knows he doesn’t have any juice with Trump,” said the GOP strategist. “He can’t even get his own people in.”
The White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Abrams’ name appeared last week as an attendee at Trump’s meeting with Tillerson in standard off-the-record guidance sent to reporters from the White House press office, sparking speculation that Abrams had emerged as a top choice for Tillerson — and, subsequently, as evidence that Trump had overruled his secretary of state.
“It speaks well of Secretary Tillerson that he was looking at Elliott,” Edelman said. “Does this really mean Trump can’t take any criticism? Well, we know the answer to that.”
The British government is believed to be planning Donald Trump’s visit to the U.K. for the summer, to avoid controversy over whether he should address parliament.
The Guardian reported Friday that the state visit is expected to run from Thursday to Sunday in either late summer or early autumn, probably during parliament’s summer recess.
The move follows comments from Speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow who said he was “strongly opposed” to Trump speaking in parliament, saying that MPs’ “opposition to racism and to sexism” should be taken into account.
Officials are also, according to the report, keen to limit Trump’s exposure to the public to reduce the number of protests.
Theresa May’s announcement that the Queen had invited Trump for a state visit led to a petition signed by more than 1.8 million people, calling for the monarch to be spared a meeting with the U.S. president.
Reports that national security adviser Michael Flynn may have discussed U.S. sanctions with the Russian ambassador before President Donald Trump’s inauguration has revived concerns about Flynn’s relationships with Moscow — and threatens to entangle a member of the administration who has so far mostly dodged controversy: Vice President Mike Pence.
Pence said in a Jan. 15 appearance on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that Flynn’s conversations with the Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak were “strictly coincidental” and had nothing to do with the Obama administration’s decision to punish Russia for meddling in the November election. “They did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia,” Pence told CBS.
An administration official told POLITICO that Pence’s remarks came after a conversation with Flynn and were guided by that conversation — leaving open the possibility that Flynn misled the Vice President just as he repeatedly denied the allegations to the Washington Post before acknowledging the topic may have been discussed.
Privately, Pence aides expressed frustration at their boss being placed in such a position.
Even if Pence was not aware that sanctions were discussed between Flynn and the Russian ambassador when he made his comments, the episode could leave him with diminished standing, concerning those around him. For the national security adviser to mislead the Vice President on such a sensitive issue with impunity would seem to send a signal about Pence’s standing in the West Wing, a Pence adviser said.
Pence has been a bastion of credibility within the administration, as the president himself has trafficked repeatedly in unfounded allegations about crowd size at his inauguration and voter fraud in November.
On Thursday night, the Washington Post and New York Times reported that Flynn had discussed the sanctions with Kislyak before Trump’s inauguration, citing multiple current and former senior officials. The conversations represent a precedent-breaking and possibly illegal move, and raise questions about whether Flynn — who was at the time a private citizen, and whose White House appointment did not require Senate confirmation — signaled an intention to reverse Obama’s move after Trump’s inauguration. Russia opted not to retaliate against the sanctions, which have not been lifted.
After initially denying the allegations, Flynn told the Post through a spokesperson “that while he had no recollection of discussing sanctions, he couldn’t be certain that the topic never came up.”
Pence wasn’t the only administration official to explain away Flynn’s contact with the Russian envoy. Press Secretary Sean Spicer, then a transition official, said Jan. 13 that Flynn’s calls were about scheduling a call for Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin after the swearing in. “That was it,” Spicer said at the time. “Plain and simple.”
Spicer went on to add: “I can confirm having spoken to him about it is those conversations that happened to occur around the time that the United States took action to expel diplomats had nothing whatsoever to do with those sanctions.”
This is not the first time Flynn has sparked controversy. His son, who was once a top adviser, was fired from the transition after stoking a bizarre conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton and child exploitation on Twitter. The younger Flynn later celebrated what he called Trump’s “Muslim ban” on Twitter — even as the administration denied the travel ban was aimed at Muslims — before deleting his account.
The senior Flynn has also faced repeated criticism for comments he’s made about Islam and his past dealings with Moscow. A retired general who led the Defense Intelligence Agency under President Obama, he was one of Trump’s most vocal supporters on the campaign trail, often thundering from the podium to rile up crowds and even joining in chants of “lock her up.”
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday said he was open to the idea of meeting U.S. President Donald Trump in Slovenia, AP reported.
Slovenian President Borut Pahor on Thursday offered to host the first meeting between the Russian and American presidents. Slovenia, a member of NATO, has a more neutral view of Moscow than many of its EU allies.
Putin said it’s up to Washington to decide on whether to hold such a meeting.
The Russian leader said Moscow is waiting for the U.S. administration to prepare for talks on improved Russia-U.S. ties. He added that Moscow and Washington could jointly tackle the terror threat and other global challenges.
Bad news from Hotel Brussels: more signals that suggest the U.K. should expect a very slow checkout and possible surcharges.
An internal European Parliament research note, seen by POLITICO and prepared for the Committee on Regional Development, makes clear that any part of the British rsation with Flynn and were guided by that conversation — leaving open the possibility that Flynn misled the Vice President just as he repeatedly denied the allegations to the Washington Post before acknowledging the topic may have been discussed.
Privately, Pence aides expressed frustration at their boss being placed in such a position.
Even if Pence was not aware that sanctions were discussed between Flynn and the Russian ambassador when he made his comments, the episode could leave him with diminished standing, concerning those around him. For the national security adviser to mislead the Vice President on such a sensitive issue with impunity would seem to send a signal about Pence’s standing in the West Wing, a Pence adviser said.
Pence has been a bastion of credibility within the administration, as the president himself has trafficked repeatedly in unfounded allegations about crowd size at his inauguration and voter fraud in November.
On Thursday night, the Washington Post and New York Times reported that Flynn had discussed the sanctions with Kislyak before Trump’s inauguration, citing multiple current and former senior officials. The conversations represent a precedent-breaking and possibly illegal move, and raise questions about whether Flynn — who was at the time a private citizen, and whose White House appointment did not require Senate confirmation — signaled an intention to reverse Obama’s move after Trump’s inauguration. Russia opted not to retaliate against the sanctions, which have not been lifted.
After initially denying the allegations, Flynn told the Post through a spokesperson “that while he had no recollection of discussing sanctions, he couldn’t be certain that the topic never came up.”
Pence wasn’t the only administration official to explain away Flynn’s contact with the Russian envoy. Press Secretary Sean Spicer, then a transition official, said Jan. 13 that Flynn’s calls were about scheduling a call for Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin after the swearing in. “That was it,” Spicer said at the time. “Plain and simple.”
Spicer went on to add: “I can confirm having spoken to him about it is those conversations that happened to occur around the time that the United States took action to expel diplomats had nothing whatsoever to do with those sanctions.”
This is not the first time Flynn has sparked controversy. His son, who was once a top adviser, was fired from the transition after stoking a bizarre conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton and child exploitation on Twitter. The younger Flynn later celebrated what he called Trump’s “Muslim ban” on Twitter — even as the administration denied the travel ban was aimed at Muslims — before deleting his account.
The senior Flynn has also faced repeated criticism for comments he’s made about Islam and his past dealings with Moscow. A retired general who led the Defense Intelligence Agency under President Obama, he was one of Trump’s most vocal supporters on the campaign trail, often thundering from the podium to rile up crowds and even joining in chants of “lock her up.”
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday said he was open to the idea of meeting U.S. President Donald Trump in Slovenia, AP reported.
Slovenian President Borut Pahor on Thursday offered to host the first meeting between the Russian and American presidents. Slovenia, a member of NATO, has a more neutral view of Moscow than many of its EU allies.
Putin said it’s up to Washington to decide on whether to hold such a meeting.
The Russian leader said Moscow is waiting for the U.S. administration to prepare for talks on improved Russia-U.S. ties. He added that Moscow and Washington could jointly tackle the terror threat and other global challenges.
Bad news from Hotel Brussels: more signals that suggest the U.K. should expect a very slow checkout and possible surcharges.
An internal European Parliament research note, seen by POLITICO and prepared for the Committee on Regional Development, makes clear that any part of the British public sector or any U.K.-based company that benefits from EU regional funding will be subject to financial surveillance until at least 2024 — or “Ex-post evaluations of the current programming period” in Commission-speak.
The Parliament note also suggests that EU regional funds handed to U.K. companies or government bodies in the 10 years before Brexit (small businesses are exempt) will need to be repaid to the European Commission. That’s because the funded activities will have “relocated outside the Union.”
For example, Superfast Cornwall is a public-private broadband partnership, running since 2011, that saw companies benefit from millions in EU funding in an effort to upgrade the internet in one of the U.K’s poorest regions. Those organizations could be on the hook for that money after Brexit.
Likewise, the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Growth Programme is a €600 million EU regional program that first called for funding applications in 2015. Big businesses benefiting from the program would also be at risk of a Brexit bill.
“The U.K. and EU could agree to overlook the usual rules for EU regional funding and exempt all British projects from the repayment clause. But that depends on a deal being in place when Brexit occurs. A hard Brexit would likely mean a big bill.”
The Parliament is, however, expecting the U.K. government to keep some of its financial relationships open with the EU.
The document optimistically asserts “the U.K. government has promised to guarantee funding” after Brexit for “structural and investment projects where the U.K. bids directly on a competitive basis (e.g. university participation in projects under Horizon 2020).”
The U.K. government or British business may also receive any outstanding payments committed to them by the EU until 2025.
The biggest worry flagged by the EU regional policy researchers? That the Irish PEACE IV program will fall by the wayside. PEACE IV is a series of EU-funded projects along the Ireland-Northern Ireland border aimed at reducing sectarian tension and increasing tolerance among divided communities.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Italian officials suspect Russia was behind a hacking attack on the foreign ministry that lasted for months before being detected, the Guardian reported Friday.
The attack took place last year when current the current prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, was foreign minister. Officials say that while the attackers managed to hack many emails from Italian embassies and consulates abroad, they were unable to get past encrypted emails that contained sensitive information, including those sent by Gentiloni.
The report identified two sources with knowledge of the attack who suspected Russia was the culprit. The chief prosecutor in Rome is now conducting an inquiry.
In recent months, Russia has been accused of interfering in several countries’ affairs, most notable in the U.S.
Both France and Germany have national elections this year, and are fearful of Russian interference. The Netherlands, which has elections next month, decided to count its ballots manually over fear of hacking.
Martin Schulz, the German center-left’s candidate to be chancellor, is behaving like U.S. President Donald Trump, according to German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble.
“If Schulz calls upon his supporters to chant ‘Make Europe great again‘ then that’s almost literally [like] Trump,” Schäuble told Der Spiegel in an interview published Friday.
He said Schulz, a former European Parliament president, was acting in a “populist way.”
Schäuble said Schulz needed to “think a little [bit more].” He warned that in times when there is a surge in populist movements, politicians should be careful with their language.
The SPD’s move to nominate Schulz as their candidate for chancellor in the September 24 federal election led to a surge in party membership appublic sector or any U.K.-based company that benefits from EU regional funding will be subject to financial surveillance until at least 2024 — or “Ex-post evaluations of the current programming period” in Commission-speak.
The Parliament note also suggests that EU regional funds handed to U.K. companies or government bodies in the 10 years before Brexit (small businesses are exempt) will need to be repaid to the European Commission. That’s because the funded activities will have “relocated outside the Union.”
For example, Superfast Cornwall is a public-private broadband partnership, running since 2011, that saw companies benefit from millions in EU funding in an effort to upgrade the internet in one of the U.K’s poorest regions. Those organizations could be on the hook for that money after Brexit.
Likewise, the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Growth Programme is a €600 million EU regional program that first called for funding applications in 2015. Big businesses benefiting from the program would also be at risk of a Brexit bill.
“The U.K. and EU could agree to overlook the usual rules for EU regional funding and exempt all British projects from the repayment clause. But that depends on a deal being in place when Brexit occurs. A hard Brexit would likely mean a big bill.”
The Parliament is, however, expecting the U.K. government to keep some of its financial relationships open with the EU.
The document optimistically asserts “the U.K. government has promised to guarantee funding” after Brexit for “structural and investment projects where the U.K. bids directly on a competitive basis (e.g. university participation in projects under Horizon 2020).”
The U.K. government or British business may also receive any outstanding payments committed to them by the EU until 2025.
The biggest worry flagged by the EU regional policy researchers? That the Irish PEACE IV program will fall by the wayside. PEACE IV is a series of EU-funded projects along the Ireland-Northern Ireland border aimed at reducing sectarian tension and increasing tolerance among divided communities.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Italian officials suspect Russia was behind a hacking attack on the foreign ministry that lasted for months before being detected, the Guardian reported Friday.
The attack took place last year when current the current prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, was foreign minister. Officials say that while the attackers managed to hack many emails from Italian embassies and consulates abroad, they were unable to get past encrypted emails that contained sensitive information, including those sent by Gentiloni.
The report identified two sources with knowledge of the attack who suspected Russia was the culprit. The chief prosecutor in Rome is now conducting an inquiry.
In recent months, Russia has been accused of interfering in several countries’ affairs, most notable in the U.S.
Both France and Germany have national elections this year, and are fearful of Russian interference. The Netherlands, which has elections next month, decided to count its ballots manually over fear of hacking.
Martin Schulz, the German center-left’s candidate to be chancellor, is behaving like U.S. President Donald Trump, according to German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble.
“If Schulz calls upon his supporters to chant ‘Make Europe great again‘ then that’s almost literally [like] Trump,” Schäuble told Der Spiegel in an interview published Friday.
He said Schulz, a former European Parliament president, was acting in a “populist way.”
Schäuble said Schulz needed to “think a little [bit more].” He warned that in times when there is a surge in populist movements, politicians should be careful with their language.
The SPD’s move to nominate Schulz as their candidate for chancellor in the September 24 federal election led to a surge in party membership applications. Opinion polls show that backing Schulz helped the party to its highest approval rating since 2013.
A German court on Friday upheld an earlier ruling which bans German comedian Jan Böhmermann from reciting parts of a poem making fun of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, local media reported.
The court in Hamburg ruled in May that re-publication of 18 “abusive and defamatory” verses in the 24-verse poem was not allowed and said the sexual references directed at the Turkish president were unacceptable.
Böhmermann called Erdoğan a “pervert,” a “zoophile” and a “goat-f—-er” in a poem, which he read out during a show by German public broadcaster ZDF, after which Turkey asked Germany to file criminal charges against the comedian.
Friday’s ruling said that “artistic freedom is unconditional but not unbounded.” But it added that a head of state “must accept heavy criticism, as freedom of expression arises from the special need to criticize power.”
Lawyers for Böhmermann and Erdogan can appeal the decision, and according to the media reports they intend to do so.
Chancellor Angela Merkel had been widely criticized for allowing investigators to pursue the case against the comedian.
An independent Scotland would not automatically be able to join the European Union or inherit the United Kingdom’s membership after Brexit, according to a senior European Commission official.
The Commission’s head of representation in the U.K., Jacqueline Minor, said Scotland would need to formally apply to be an EU member, although it could be fast-tracked because it already complies with EU rules and regulations, the Guardian reported Friday.
Minor said the Commission’s position on Scotland’s membership has not changed since the referendum on independence in 2014.
The Commission’s spokesperson in the U.K. said there was a clear process for any applicant country under Article 49 of the European treaties. “That would also apply to Scotland. If Scotland became an independent country, I think Article 49 is the normal starting point,” she said.
Minor also said that Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the Commission, has indicated that he doesn’t want any further enlargement of the EU during his term of office, which ends in 2019.
In June’s Brexit referendum, Scotland voted to stay in the EU by 62 percent to 38 percent.
A U.S. federal appeals court on Thursday bluntly rejected President Donald Trump’s attempt to revive his controversial travel ban executive order, giving no ground under unusual public pressure from the president himself.
A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals Thursday unanimously turned down the Justice Department’s request to lift a Seattle-based judge’s restraining order, blocking authorities from carrying out the limits Trump sought to impose on travel to the U.S. by citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries and by refugees from around the globe.
In an unsparing 29-page ruling, the judges said Trump’s order appears to deprive many affected foreigners of their rights without providing the legal process the Constitution requires.
“The Government has not shown that the Executive Order provides what due process requires, such as notice and a hearing prior to restricting an individual’s ability to travel. Indeed, the Government does not contend that the Executive Order provides for such process,” the 9th Circuit ruling says.
The judges also appeared to bristle at the starkness of some of the legal arguments Justice Department lawyers offered in the case, including a contention that orders such as Trump’s should not be subject to scrutiny by the courts.
“The Government has taken the position that the President’s decisions about immigration policy, particularly when motivated by national security concerns, are unreviewable, even if those actions potentially contravene constitutional rights and protections,” the court wrote. “There is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability, which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy. … The Supreme Court has repeatedly and explicitly rejected the notion that the political branches have unreviewable authority over immigration or are not subject to the Constitution when policymaking in that context.”
The White House could take the issue to the Supreme Court, but the prospects for such an appeal are uncertain due in part to the high court being short a justice and split evenly between Democratic- and Republican-appointed justices.
On Thursday evening, Kellyane Conway — counselor to the president — said the administration is “fully confident” they will eventually prevail.
“This ruling does not affect the merits at all,” Conway said on Fox News. “It is an interim ruling, and we are fully confident that now that we will get our day in court and have an opportunity to argue this on the merits that we will prevail.”
The court’s opinion was issued “per curiam,” meaning no specific author was identified. However, all three judges joined the ruling: Jimmy Carter appointee William Canby Jr., George W. Bush appointee Richard Clifton and Barack Obama appointee Michelle Freidland.
The unanimous decision was somewhat unexpected. During oral arguments on the case Tuesday, Clifton sounded open to ruling for Trump at least in part. Clifton said he had “serious concerns” about the breadth of the district court restraining order.
Trump quickly responded to the ruling on Twitter, vowing to keep up the legal fight to implement his order. “SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!” he wrote.
A Justice Department spokeswoman was noncommittal Thursday about a Supreme Court appeal. “The Justice Department is reviewing the decision and considering its options,” the spokeswoman said.
The 9th Circuit ruling largely avoided the most explosive issue in the case — whether Trump’s order was unconstitutionally tainted by anti-Muslim bias. The decision says it is “well established” that when considering the legality of government actions courts can consider public comments such as Trump’s public call for a ban on immigration by Muslims. However, the appeals judges decided to reserve judgment on that issue “in light of the sensitive interests involved” and other factors, the ruling says.
The decision also flatly rejected one move the administration made to try to salvage the executive order: announcing that it did not apply to green card holders.
Initially, the White House said it did apply and arriving green card holders were being granted case-by-case waivers. Later, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly issued a blanket waiver for green card holders.
Then, last Wednesday, White House Counsel Don McGahn issued what he called “authoritative guidance” that the order never actually covered U.S. permanent residents at all.
The 9th Circuit panel did not find that convincing.
“The Government has offered no authority establishing that the White House counsel is empowered to issue an amended order superseding the Executive Order signed by the President and now challenged by the States, and that proposition seems unlikely,” the panel wrote.
The judges also said it was far from clear that McGahn’s guidance was binding on other government officials.
“The White House counsel is not the President, and he is not known to be in the chain of command for any of the Executive Departments. Moreover, in light of the Government’s shifting interpretations of the Executive Order, we cannot say that the current interpretation by White House counsel, even if authoritative and binding, will persist past the immediate stage of these proceedings,” the court said.
The 9th Circuit judges also flatly dismissed a fallback position taken by government lawyers: that the appeals court could rein in the restraining order so it protected only foreigners already in the U.S. or those who have visited before, such as student-visa holders in the middle of a course of study. That would have allowed Trump to suspend the refugee program, while providplications. Opinion polls show that backing Schulz helped the party to its highest approval rating since 2013.
A German court on Friday upheld an earlier ruling which bans German comedian Jan Böhmermann from reciting parts of a poem making fun of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, local media reported.
The court in Hamburg ruled in May that re-publication of 18 “abusive and defamatory” verses in the 24-verse poem was not allowed and said the sexual references directed at the Turkish president were unacceptable.
Böhmermann called Erdoğan a “pervert,” a “zoophile” and a “goat-f—-er” in a poem, which he read out during a show by German public broadcaster ZDF, after which Turkey asked Germany to file criminal charges against the comedian.
Friday’s ruling said that “artistic freedom is unconditional but not unbounded.” But it added that a head of state “must accept heavy criticism, as freedom of expression arises from the special need to criticize power.”
Lawyers for Böhmermann and Erdogan can appeal the decision, and according to the media reports they intend to do so.
Chancellor Angela Merkel had been widely criticized for allowing investigators to pursue the case against the comedian.
An independent Scotland would not automatically be able to join the European Union or inherit the United Kingdom’s membership after Brexit, according to a senior European Commission official.
The Commission’s head of representation in the U.K., Jacqueline Minor, said Scotland would need to formally apply to be an EU member, although it could be fast-tracked because it already complies with EU rules and regulations, the Guardian reported Friday.
Minor said the Commission’s position on Scotland’s membership has not changed since the referendum on independence in 2014.
The Commission’s spokesperson in the U.K. said there was a clear process for any applicant country under Article 49 of the European treaties. “That would also apply to Scotland. If Scotland became an independent country, I think Article 49 is the normal starting point,” she said.
Minor also said that Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the Commission, has indicated that he doesn’t want any further enlargement of the EU during his term of office, which ends in 2019.
In June’s Brexit referendum, Scotland voted to stay in the EU by 62 percent to 38 percent.
A U.S. federal appeals court on Thursday bluntly rejected President Donald Trump’s attempt to revive his controversial travel ban executive order, giving no ground under unusual public pressure from the president himself.
A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals Thursday unanimously turned down the Justice Department’s request to lift a Seattle-based judge’s restraining order, blocking authorities from carrying out the limits Trump sought to impose on travel to the U.S. by citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries and by refugees from around the globe.
In an unsparing 29-page ruling, the judges said Trump’s order appears to deprive many affected foreigners of their rights without providing the legal process the Constitution requires.
“The Government has not shown that the Executive Order provides what due process requires, such as notice and a hearing prior to restricting an individual’s ability to travel. Indeed, the Government does not contend that the Executive Order provides for such process,” the 9th Circuit ruling says.
The judges also appeared to bristle at the starkness of some of the legal arguments Justice Department lawyers offered in the case, including a contention that orders such as Trump’s should not be subject to scrutiny by the courts.
“The Government has taken the position that the President’s decisions about immigration policy, particularly when motivated by national security concerns, are unreviewable, even if those actions potentially contravene constitutional rights and protections,” the court wrote. “There is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability, which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy. … The Supreme Court has repeatedly and explicitly rejected the notion that the political branches have unreviewable authority over immigration or are not subject to the Constitution when policymaking in that context.”
The White House could take the issue to the Supreme Court, but the prospects for such an appeal are uncertain due in part to the high court being short a justice and split evenly between Democratic- and Republican-appointed justices.
On Thursday evening, Kellyane Conway — counselor to the president — said the administration is “fully confident” they will eventually prevail.
“This ruling does not affect the merits at all,” Conway said on Fox News. “It is an interim ruling, and we are fully confident that now that we will get our day in court and have an opportunity to argue this on the merits that we will prevail.”
The court’s opinion was issued “per curiam,” meaning no specific author was identified. However, all three judges joined the ruling: Jimmy Carter appointee William Canby Jr., George W. Bush appointee Richard Clifton and Barack Obama appointee Michelle Freidland.
The unanimous decision was somewhat unexpected. During oral arguments on the case Tuesday, Clifton sounded open to ruling for Trump at least in part. Clifton said he had “serious concerns” about the breadth of the district court restraining order.
Trump quickly responded to the ruling on Twitter, vowing to keep up the legal fight to implement his order. “SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!” he wrote.
A Justice Department spokeswoman was noncommittal Thursday about a Supreme Court appeal. “The Justice Department is reviewing the decision and considering its options,” the spokeswoman said.
The 9th Circuit ruling largely avoided the most explosive issue in the case — whether Trump’s order was unconstitutionally tainted by anti-Muslim bias. The decision says it is “well established” that when considering the legality of government actions courts can consider public comments such as Trump’s public call for a ban on immigration by Muslims. However, the appeals judges decided to reserve judgment on that issue “in light of the sensitive interests involved” and other factors, the ruling says.
The decision also flatly rejected one move the administration made to try to salvage the executive order: announcing that it did not apply to green card holders.
Initially, the White House said it did apply and arriving green card holders were being granted case-by-case waivers. Later, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly issued a blanket waiver for green card holders.
Then, last Wednesday, White House Counsel Don McGahn issued what he called “authoritative guidance” that the order never actually covered U.S. permanent residents at all.
The 9th Circuit panel did not find that convincing.
“The Government has offered no authority establishing that the White House counsel is empowered to issue an amended order superseding the Executive Order signed by the President and now challenged by the States, and that proposition seems unlikely,” the panel wrote.
The judges also said it was far from clear that McGahn’s guidance was binding on other government officials.
“The White House counsel is not the President, and he is not known to be in the chain of command for any of the Executive Departments. Moreover, in light of the Government’s shifting interpretations of the Executive Order, we cannot say that the current interpretation by White House counsel, even if authoritative and binding, will persist past the immediate stage of these proceedings,” the court said.
The 9th Circuit judges also flatly dismissed a fallback position taken by government lawyers: that the appeals court could rein in the restraining order so it protected only foreigners already in the U.S. or those who have visited before, such as student-visa holders in the middle of a course of study. That would have allowed Trump to suspend the refugee program, while providing more protection for foreigners with established ties to the U.S.
“That limitation on its face omits aliens who are in the United States unlawfully, and those individuals have due process rights as well,” the panel wrote. “There might be persons covered by the TRO who do not have viable due process claims, but the Governments proposed revision leaves out at least some who do….More generally, even if the TRO might be overbroad in some respects, it is not our role to try, in effect, to rewrite the Executive Order.”
In comments Wednesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer seemed to make a preemptive move to soften the blow of a 9th Circuit defeat for the administration.
Spicer stressed that the appeals court panel was considering a “narrow” procedural issue and he said federal government lawyers looked forward to being able to defend Trump’s policy “on the merits” in future court proceedings.
The appeals court ruling is not a final one on the legality of Trump’s order. Litigation on that subject will go forward before the Seattle judge and in about 20 other legal challenges pending across the country.
The court’s ruling Thursday followed a highly unconventional campaign of public criticism by the president, who repeatedly warned that judges involved would be blamed if the U.S. suffered a terrorist attack from migrants who entered the country while his order was lifted.
In his public statements prior to the latest court decision, Trump also appeared to accuse the judges of political bias.
During a speech Wednesday, Trump twice called the 9th Circuit arguments on the issue “disgraceful” and he suggested judicial resistance to his order was the product of political bias.
“If the U.S. does not win this case as it so obviously should, we can never have the security and safety to which we are entitled. Politics!” he tweeted Wednesday.
“Big increase in traffic into our country from certain areas, while our people are far more vulnerable, as we wait for what should be EASY D!,” the president added, apparently arguing that the court decision should be an easy victory for the White House.
Trump’s shots at judges handling the case drew bipartisan criticism. Even the president’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch, indicated disagreement. He told senators this week that he found such attacks on judges to be “disheartening” and “demoralizing.”
White House officials initially confirmed Gorsuch’s comments, but press secretary Sean Spicer insisted Thursday that the nominee was speaking in general terms about invective directed at the judicial and was not addressing Trump’s statement.
Trump’s Jan. 27 order banned travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen pending a 90-day review of current vetting procedures. The State Department quickly followed up on the president’s order by “provisionally” canceling about 60,000 visas held by nationals of those countries.
However, after Seattle-based U.S. District Court Judge James Robart blocked Trump’s directive on Friday at the request of the states of Washington and Minnesota, the State Department declared that authorities would honor those visas as long as they were not physically voided.
Trump’s order also put a 120-day hold on grants of U.S. visas to refugees worldwide and indefinitely suspended the issuance of refugee visas to those fleeing the civil war in Syria.
HÄSSLEHOLM, Sweden — When the leader of the Moderates, Anna Kinberg Batra, recently announced that her party would be open to negotiating with the Sweden Democrats, it sent shockwaves through the establishment.
Many accused Kinberg Batra of ripping up the cordon sanitaire which has prevented far-right populists in Sweden from winning the kind of influence they have achieved in neighboring Denmark and Norway, and elsewhere on the Continent.
“You will be sitting and negotiating with a party that you yourself say is racist and pro-Russia,” Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said in response to the news, arguing that his opponent had “lost her political compass.”
Even the Moderates’ allies in the center-right Alliance bloc were unhappy, with Liberal leader Jan Björkland calling the move an “unfortunate gambit.” Both he and Centre Party leader Annie Lööf have said they would never be part of a government formed with the active support of the Sweden Democrats.
But the Sweden Democrats — which have been surging in the polls — will likely be in a position to wield real power after next year’s election. And the blessing by the Moderate leadership to allow MPs and local councilors to start talks with the SD is clearly helping sanitize a party that, until now, has been cut out of mainstream politics over links to neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups.
In Hässleholm, a town in northern Skåne, a stronghold for the Sweden Democrats, Ulf Erlandsson, the local SD leader, looks every inch the maverick in black jeans, trainers and a floral shirt. At the end of this month, he intends to join forces with the center-right Moderates to oust the ruling Social Democrats, whose budget the two parties have blocked from being voted through.
He hopes the Social Democrat council chairman will resign at a meeting on February 27 and, in exchange for supporting the Moderates’ appointee to replace her, expects to be made his deputy.
The collaboration between SD and the Moderates in this area will be the first of its kind in Sweden and if he gets made vice chairman, Erlandsson will be the first Sweden Democrat to take such a position in Sweden, “so it’s nice,” he said. “But I think it will soon be happening all over the country.”
Indeed, Erlandsson believes the winds of change blowing through Skåne are the same ones that have brought Brexit and Trump and have upset the upcoming elections in France and Germany.
In November, he made a speech in the council chamber, celebrating the election of U.S. President Donald Trump. “I said that those people who wanted to see a woman president … just have to wait for it to happen in France,” he said.
His party’s support has soared in recent years on the back of growing disquiet over migration. Last year, Sweden, a country of 9.5 million people, granted residency to a record 150,000 immigrants. As the number of asylum seekers has dipped, the party has turned its focus to law and order concerns in areas with large immigrant populations.
But despite leader Jimmie Åkesson’s moves to soften the party’s image, it continues to be dogged by scandals involving racism.
An MP was sacked last year for proposing that the Bonnier newspaper group, whose family owners are Jewish, be broken up because no “ethnic group” should be allowed to “control more than 5 percent of the media.”
At the height of the refugee crisis in 2015, party activists posted a map listing the addresses of all asylum centers in and around the city of Lund, a move criticized as inviting anti-immigrant activists to commit arson attacks.
Last week, Moderate party officials held their first official meeting with their Sweden Democrat counterparts on cooperation in the Riksdag, Sweden’s parliament.
“It’s a really big deal [although] it was very probably a matter of time,” said Nicholas Aylott, associate professor at Södertorn University, who sees the shift as part of a necessary realignment of the party system since the growth of the Sweden Democrats deprived alliances on the left and on the right of the chance of a majority.
“I still think we’ve got a long way before the Sweden Democrats get anywhere near ministerial positions,” he said. “What’s more likely is some understanding where SD would passively support a center-right government.”
Kinberg Batra, who has repeatedly described the Sweden Democrats as “racist in its actions,” put a stop to her party’s backroom negotiations with the SD in Hässleholm as recently as December, saying: “I do not want us Moderates to enter into cooperation with the Sweden Democrats on any level.”
Her sudden shift has left Moderate MPs grumbling, mostly ing more protection for foreigners with established ties to the U.S.
“That limitation on its face omits aliens who are in the United States unlawfully, and those individuals have due process rights as well,” the panel wrote. “There might be persons covered by the TRO who do not have viable due process claims, but the Governments proposed revision leaves out at least some who do….More generally, even if the TRO might be overbroad in some respects, it is not our role to try, in effect, to rewrite the Executive Order.”
In comments Wednesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer seemed to make a preemptive move to soften the blow of a 9th Circuit defeat for the administration.
Spicer stressed that the appeals court panel was considering a “narrow” procedural issue and he said federal government lawyers looked forward to being able to defend Trump’s policy “on the merits” in future court proceedings.
The appeals court ruling is not a final one on the legality of Trump’s order. Litigation on that subject will go forward before the Seattle judge and in about 20 other legal challenges pending across the country.
The court’s ruling Thursday followed a highly unconventional campaign of public criticism by the president, who repeatedly warned that judges involved would be blamed if the U.S. suffered a terrorist attack from migrants who entered the country while his order was lifted.
In his public statements prior to the latest court decision, Trump also appeared to accuse the judges of political bias.
During a speech Wednesday, Trump twice called the 9th Circuit arguments on the issue “disgraceful” and he suggested judicial resistance to his order was the product of political bias.
“If the U.S. does not win this case as it so obviously should, we can never have the security and safety to which we are entitled. Politics!” he tweeted Wednesday.
“Big increase in traffic into our country from certain areas, while our people are far more vulnerable, as we wait for what should be EASY D!,” the president added, apparently arguing that the court decision should be an easy victory for the White House.
Trump’s shots at judges handling the case drew bipartisan criticism. Even the president’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch, indicated disagreement. He told senators this week that he found such attacks on judges to be “disheartening” and “demoralizing.”
White House officials initially confirmed Gorsuch’s comments, but press secretary Sean Spicer insisted Thursday that the nominee was speaking in general terms about invective directed at the judicial and was not addressing Trump’s statement.
Trump’s Jan. 27 order banned travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen pending a 90-day review of current vetting procedures. The State Department quickly followed up on the president’s order by “provisionally” canceling about 60,000 visas held by nationals of those countries.
However, after Seattle-based U.S. District Court Judge James Robart blocked Trump’s directive on Friday at the request of the states of Washington and Minnesota, the State Department declared that authorities would honor those visas as long as they were not physically voided.
Trump’s order also put a 120-day hold on grants of U.S. visas to refugees worldwide and indefinitely suspended the issuance of refugee visas to those fleeing the civil war in Syria.
HÄSSLEHOLM, Sweden — When the leader of the Moderates, Anna Kinberg Batra, recently announced that her party would be open to negotiating with the Sweden Democrats, it sent shockwaves through the establishment.
Many accused Kinberg Batra of ripping up the cordon sanitaire which has prevented far-right populists in Sweden from winning the kind of influence they have achieved in neighboring Denmark and Norway, and elsewhere on the Continent.
“You will be sitting and negotiating with a party that you yourself say is racist and pro-Russia,” Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said in response to the news, arguing that his opponent had “lost her political compass.”
Even the Moderates’ allies in the center-right Alliance bloc were unhappy, with Liberal leader Jan Björkland calling the move an “unfortunate gambit.” Both he and Centre Party leader Annie Lööf have said they would never be part of a government formed with the active support of the Sweden Democrats.
But the Sweden Democrats — which have been surging in the polls — will likely be in a position to wield real power after next year’s election. And the blessing by the Moderate leadership to allow MPs and local councilors to start talks with the SD is clearly helping sanitize a party that, until now, has been cut out of mainstream politics over links to neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups.
In Hässleholm, a town in northern Skåne, a stronghold for the Sweden Democrats, Ulf Erlandsson, the local SD leader, looks every inch the maverick in black jeans, trainers and a floral shirt. At the end of this month, he intends to join forces with the center-right Moderates to oust the ruling Social Democrats, whose budget the two parties have blocked from being voted through.
He hopes the Social Democrat council chairman will resign at a meeting on February 27 and, in exchange for supporting the Moderates’ appointee to replace her, expects to be made his deputy.
The collaboration between SD and the Moderates in this area will be the first of its kind in Sweden and if he gets made vice chairman, Erlandsson will be the first Sweden Democrat to take such a position in Sweden, “so it’s nice,” he said. “But I think it will soon be happening all over the country.”
Indeed, Erlandsson believes the winds of change blowing through Skåne are the same ones that have brought Brexit and Trump and have upset the upcoming elections in France and Germany.
In November, he made a speech in the council chamber, celebrating the election of U.S. President Donald Trump. “I said that those people who wanted to see a woman president … just have to wait for it to happen in France,” he said.
His party’s support has soared in recent years on the back of growing disquiet over migration. Last year, Sweden, a country of 9.5 million people, granted residency to a record 150,000 immigrants. As the number of asylum seekers has dipped, the party has turned its focus to law and order concerns in areas with large immigrant populations.
But despite leader Jimmie Åkesson’s moves to soften the party’s image, it continues to be dogged by scandals involving racism.
An MP was sacked last year for proposing that the Bonnier newspaper group, whose family owners are Jewish, be broken up because no “ethnic group” should be allowed to “control more than 5 percent of the media.”
At the height of the refugee crisis in 2015, party activists posted a map listing the addresses of all asylum centers in and around the city of Lund, a move criticized as inviting anti-immigrant activists to commit arson attacks.
Last week, Moderate party officials held their first official meeting with their Sweden Democrat counterparts on cooperation in the Riksdag, Sweden’s parliament.
“It’s a really big deal [although] it was very probably a matter of time,” said Nicholas Aylott, associate professor at Södertorn University, who sees the shift as part of a necessary realignment of the party system since the growth of the Sweden Democrats deprived alliances on the left and on the right of the chance of a majority.
“I still think we’ve got a long way before the Sweden Democrats get anywhere near ministerial positions,” he said. “What’s more likely is some understanding where SD would passively support a center-right government.”
Kinberg Batra, who has repeatedly described the Sweden Democrats as “racist in its actions,” put a stop to her party’s backroom negotiations with the SD in Hässleholm as recently as December, saying: “I do not want us Moderates to enter into cooperation with the Sweden Democrats on any level.”
Her sudden shift has left Moderate MPs grumbling, mostly off-the-record, that they were never consulted. And at least three former Moderate ministers have criticized the move publicly.
Mikael Odenberg, defense minister in the last Moderate government, wrote an article on Monday, calling for a grand coalition with the Social Democrats rather than negotiations with a party whose policies on most issues, he said, are “a total joke.”
“Is limited cooperation with SD possible?” asked Sten Tolgfors, a former trade minister, on Facebook. “Is it desirable? Will you influence one another through cooperation? Will the political climate be affected by it?”
In Hässleholm, Douglas Roth, who hopes to be appointed chairman of the council this month if all goes to plan, argued the move was a return to sanity. The last Moderate government’s “open hearts” in terms of immigration and its refusal to put in place tougher policies proposed by then-immigration minister Tobias Billström, was the reason his party came third in the municipality, he said.
“We saw that people were horrified by the immigration politics we were driving forward,” he said. “If we had brought in the politics that Billström wanted, we wouldn’t have had the Sweden Democrats with 16 percent of the votes.”
He is not alone. A poll by Inizio found that 82 percent of Moderate voters supported Kinberg Batra’s move while a clear majority of Moderate local councilors, approached by the Dagens Nyheter newspaper, welcomed the possible collaboration.
Roth admits that talks have already taken place in Hässleholm, contradicting the claims of Pär Palmgren, the local party leader, that there is no cooperation.
For Roth, it comes down to arithmetic. The Social Democrats have 20 seats in Hässleholm and, with their allies, hold 30 seats on the council, leaving them one crucial vote short of a majority. The Moderates, with just eight seats, are far short of a majority, even with all of their Alliance partners, unless they get the support of the Sweden Democrats and the local Folkets Väl party, which would earn them 31 votes.
The maths looks similar across Sweden. In Gävle municipality, half-way up the Baltic coast, the Moderates at the start of last year ended more than a hundred years of Social Democrat rule, again with the passive support of the Sweden Democrats. Kinberg Batra’s move opens the way for more to do so.
The Moderates are already moving to detoxify the Sweden Democrats’ image among voters.
Kinberg Batra’s latest line is that her party would neither form a government with the Sweden Democrats nor with the Left Party as “both have authoritarian roots.”
The underlying message is that ruling with the passive support of a party whose founders had links to the neo-Nazi movement is no different from the way the Social Democrats often have done with the former Communist party, whose previous leaders supported Joseph Stalin.
“It’s wrong to call SD such a terrible and disgusting party,” Roth said. “The Social Democrats want you to see them like that because they want to be able to stay in power. Half of SD’s members are old Moderates.”
In Hässleholm, Erlandsson can’t wait to move into his council office. “I don’t have a key, but I will next month!” he said with a laugh. “I will have a big office on the second floor. It feels very good.”
MADRID — A battle at the top of Podemos, the leftist anti-austerity party that took Spanish politics by storm three years ago, has spilled out into the open ahead of a big membership conference this weekend.
On January 31, journalists and politicians in Spain’s Congress watched as the party’s leader, Pablo Iglesias, became locked in what seemed to be a bitter argument with his deputy, Íñigo Errejón, seated next to him. In photos subsequently published in the media, the ponytailed Iglesias looks haggard and tired, sometimes fiercely making a point to his colleague, at others frowning as he listens. The usually fresh-faced Errejón appears much older than his 33 years, at one point wearily removing his glasses to remonstrate with the party leader.
Afterwards, both men played down the images. “We’re not Dutch, we gesticulate,” quipped Iglesias.
But whatever the content of that now infamous conversation, nobody doubts that a power struggle has broken out in the upper ranks of the party. Most surprising of all is that it should be waged between Iglesias and Errejón, whose friendship and intellectual chemistry was crucial in making Podemos the most successful and disruptive new arrival in Spanish politics for over three decades.
The conflict has been increasingly open and often brutal, full of conspiracy theories, poisonous tweets and occasional public outbursts. On February 1, Carolina Bescansa, a member of the party’s governing committee, resigned, saying she was tired of the “train crash” of a confrontation at the party’s heart.
Four days later, a recently departed senior Podemos figure, Luis Alegre, published in a national newspaper an acidic attack on a clique at the top of the party, who “are acting like parasites on Pablo until they destroy the organism […] I am sure Pablo will realize this only a year or two after being killed by his own people, but by then it will be too late.”
Adding to the rancor, Antonio Montiel, the head of Podemos in Valencia, compared the leadership style of Iglesias to that of Saddam Hussein and Francisco Franco.
When Iglesias himself described the intrigue as a “psycho-drama,” it was hard to argue.
This weekend, Podemos holds its second national civic assembly, in the Vistalegre sports arena in Madrid. By the end of it, the party will seek to have redefined its purpose and direction and healed some of the wounds of recent months. But there is also an outside chance of a more radical overhaul, threatening the leadership of Iglesias.
Founded in early 2014 by a group of lecturers from Madrid’s Complutense University, Podemos was an almost immediate success, winning 1.2 million votes in the EU parliamentary elections of that spring. At that time, the Spanish economy was undergoing a shaky recovery, but the effects of the worst recession of the modern era were still all too visible. Meanwhile, a seemingly endless torrent of corruption cases affecting the two main political forces, the Popular Party (PP) and the Socialists (PSOE), fueled Spaniards’ anger at their leaders.
Podemos championed political renewal and an end to austerity, putting it on the side of ordinary Spaniards fed up with their discredited elites. By the end of 2014, it was top of the opinion polls.
A core group had plotted this rise, including Juan Carlos Monedero, a former advisor to Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, and Bescansa. But the party’s most recognizable faces were Iglesias, now 38, and Errejón. They shared deep leftist convictions and an obsession with political theory. Both were informed by Latin American leftism, with Errejón writing about the Evo Morales government of Bolivia for his PhD thesis and Iglesias an admirer of Venezuela’s Bolivarian populism.
The duo’s collaborative leadership was cemented at the party’s founding national assembly in October 2014 in Vistalegre. It was a marriage made in heaven: a media-savvy firebrand of a leader who could channel popular anger and speak in soundbites; and his more softly-spoken, yet highly articulate, No. 2.
In the spring of 2015, the party got a taste of real power as Podemos-backed forces took control of major cities such as Madrid, Barcelona, Cádiz, Zaragoza and A Coruña in municipal elections. The result confirmed the party’s enormous appeal for younger, urban Spaniards.
Then, in the general election of December 2015, it won 69 seats in Congress, ending over three decades of two-party politics and establishing itself as the country’s third force. “Podemos is here to stay,” said El Español newspaper.
But that historic election was the start of its problems.
The vote failed to produce a clear winner, with both the governing PP losing its majority and the second-placed PSOE losing ground. Errejón saw an opportunity for Podemos to form a coalition or governing agreement with the PSOE, which was already working on a partnership with the new liberal party, Ciudadanos. Iglesias disagreed, fearing he would have to compromise too much with parties to his right and no deal was reached.
Six months later, a new election was held and Podemos ran in tandem with the communist-led United Left (IU). Having insisted since its inception that it represented Spaniards “down below” rather than anywhere on the conventional political spectrum, Podemos was now firmly placing itself on the hard left. The electoral merger failed, as the two parties together lost around a million votes. As campaign manager, Errejón shouldered much of the blame, although it emerged he had never been fully convinced of the partnership.
A good-natured Twitter conversation between Iglesias and his deputy in September summarized the brewing discord.
“We already scare the powerful, that’s not the challenge,” posted Errejón, as he called on his party to reach out to center-ground voters. “[We need to] seduce that part of the population who suffer but still don’t trust us.”
Iglesias replied that “speaking clearly and being different, we will seduce more.”
Since then, the tone has become less cordial, with social networks often the battleground for the feuding factions surrounding the two politicians. Reports of a conspiracy, plotted on the Telegram app, to undermine or even overthrow Iglesias have come to light and party militants have been trolling Errejón on Twitter with the hashtag #AsiNoInigo (“Not like that, Íñigo”).
Although Errejón is not formally challenging Iglesias as leader at the national conference, the two men will offer separate proposals for the party’s future strategy as their camps vie for control of the Civic Council executive board.
“It’s true that lately we’ve had a lot of differences and I think that recently [Errejón] has been making a lot of mistakes — he needs to put things right,” Iglesias told El País newspaper.
As if to highlight what is at stake this weekend, he has said: “There are two projects, two teams and two leaderships.”
Errejón, meanwhile, has underlined his concerns at the party’s move away from the mainstream, towards the left.
“In 2016 there was an ideological and political change in Podemos, which has been more worried about showing how far away it is from the other parties than about setting the agenda in our country,” he told the Eldiario.es newspaper.
Putting it in the pop culture context he and Iglesias are so fond of, he said: “[W]e’re like the guy who follows a band and, when it starts to sell loads of records, he goes back to listening to its earlier sound, which people didn’t listen to much, but which was more original.”
Iván Redondo, a political strategist who has advised the PP in the past, believes Errejón’s plan to occupy the center ground is a gamble.
“Podemos is still a new party,” he said. “It has a 5 million-strong voter base, but equally, that could be its voter ceiling. If they follow Errejón’s plan they’ll be playing on the terms and according to the logic of the traditional parties, which are very powerful in Spain.”
He added: “I don’t think Podemos is ready to win that battle right now.”
On the ground floor of an apartment block in Rivas, a working class district on the southern edge of Madrid, 30 or so people are gathered to discuss the future of Podemos. The barely furnished room, splashed with the party’s trademark purple, is regularly used to host meetings of the local “circle” – one of hundreds of Podemos civic associations across Spain that are the foundation of its popular support.
On this occasion, three Podemos politicians from its anti-capitalist wing — a less influential alternative to the two main clans — have come to talk about their proposals for the party in the hope of winning votes at Vistalegre. Many issues are discussed — austerity, evictions, women’s rights — but the Iglesias-Errejón feud casts a shadow.
“Podemos wasn’t somethinoff-the-record, that they were never consulted. And at least three former Moderate ministers have criticized the move publicly.
Mikael Odenberg, defense minister in the last Moderate government, wrote an article on Monday, calling for a grand coalition with the Social Democrats rather than negotiations with a party whose policies on most issues, he said, are “a total joke.”
“Is limited cooperation with SD possible?” asked Sten Tolgfors, a former trade minister, on Facebook. “Is it desirable? Will you influence one another through cooperation? Will the political climate be affected by it?”
In Hässleholm, Douglas Roth, who hopes to be appointed chairman of the council this month if all goes to plan, argued the move was a return to sanity. The last Moderate government’s “open hearts” in terms of immigration and its refusal to put in place tougher policies proposed by then-immigration minister Tobias Billström, was the reason his party came third in the municipality, he said.
“We saw that people were horrified by the immigration politics we were driving forward,” he said. “If we had brought in the politics that Billström wanted, we wouldn’t have had the Sweden Democrats with 16 percent of the votes.”
He is not alone. A poll by Inizio found that 82 percent of Moderate voters supported Kinberg Batra’s move while a clear majority of Moderate local councilors, approached by the Dagens Nyheter newspaper, welcomed the possible collaboration.
Roth admits that talks have already taken place in Hässleholm, contradicting the claims of Pär Palmgren, the local party leader, that there is no cooperation.
For Roth, it comes down to arithmetic. The Social Democrats have 20 seats in Hässleholm and, with their allies, hold 30 seats on the council, leaving them one crucial vote short of a majority. The Moderates, with just eight seats, are far short of a majority, even with all of their Alliance partners, unless they get the support of the Sweden Democrats and the local Folkets Väl party, which would earn them 31 votes.
The maths looks similar across Sweden. In Gävle municipality, half-way up the Baltic coast, the Moderates at the start of last year ended more than a hundred years of Social Democrat rule, again with the passive support of the Sweden Democrats. Kinberg Batra’s move opens the way for more to do so.
The Moderates are already moving to detoxify the Sweden Democrats’ image among voters.
Kinberg Batra’s latest line is that her party would neither form a government with the Sweden Democrats nor with the Left Party as “both have authoritarian roots.”
The underlying message is that ruling with the passive support of a party whose founders had links to the neo-Nazi movement is no different from the way the Social Democrats often have done with the former Communist party, whose previous leaders supported Joseph Stalin.
“It’s wrong to call SD such a terrible and disgusting party,” Roth said. “The Social Democrats want you to see them like that because they want to be able to stay in power. Half of SD’s members are old Moderates.”
In Hässleholm, Erlandsson can’t wait to move into his council office. “I don’t have a key, but I will next month!” he said with a laugh. “I will have a big office on the second floor. It feels very good.”
MADRID — A battle at the top of Podemos, the leftist anti-austerity party that took Spanish politics by storm three years ago, has spilled out into the open ahead of a big membership conference this weekend.
On January 31, journalists and politicians in Spain’s Congress watched as the party’s leader, Pablo Iglesias, became locked in what seemed to be a bitter argument with his deputy, Íñigo Errejón, seated next to him. In photos subsequently published in the media, the ponytailed Iglesias looks haggard and tired, sometimes fiercely making a point to his colleague, at others frowning as he listens. The usually fresh-faced Errejón appears much older than his 33 years, at one point wearily removing his glasses to remonstrate with the party leader.
Afterwards, both men played down the images. “We’re not Dutch, we gesticulate,” quipped Iglesias.
But whatever the content of that now infamous conversation, nobody doubts that a power struggle has broken out in the upper ranks of the party. Most surprising of all is that it should be waged between Iglesias and Errejón, whose friendship and intellectual chemistry was crucial in making Podemos the most successful and disruptive new arrival in Spanish politics for over three decades.
The conflict has been increasingly open and often brutal, full of conspiracy theories, poisonous tweets and occasional public outbursts. On February 1, Carolina Bescansa, a member of the party’s governing committee, resigned, saying she was tired of the “train crash” of a confrontation at the party’s heart.
Four days later, a recently departed senior Podemos figure, Luis Alegre, published in a national newspaper an acidic attack on a clique at the top of the party, who “are acting like parasites on Pablo until they destroy the organism […] I am sure Pablo will realize this only a year or two after being killed by his own people, but by then it will be too late.”
Adding to the rancor, Antonio Montiel, the head of Podemos in Valencia, compared the leadership style of Iglesias to that of Saddam Hussein and Francisco Franco.
When Iglesias himself described the intrigue as a “psycho-drama,” it was hard to argue.
This weekend, Podemos holds its second national civic assembly, in the Vistalegre sports arena in Madrid. By the end of it, the party will seek to have redefined its purpose and direction and healed some of the wounds of recent months. But there is also an outside chance of a more radical overhaul, threatening the leadership of Iglesias.
Founded in early 2014 by a group of lecturers from Madrid’s Complutense University, Podemos was an almost immediate success, winning 1.2 million votes in the EU parliamentary elections of that spring. At that time, the Spanish economy was undergoing a shaky recovery, but the effects of the worst recession of the modern era were still all too visible. Meanwhile, a seemingly endless torrent of corruption cases affecting the two main political forces, the Popular Party (PP) and the Socialists (PSOE), fueled Spaniards’ anger at their leaders.
Podemos championed political renewal and an end to austerity, putting it on the side of ordinary Spaniards fed up with their discredited elites. By the end of 2014, it was top of the opinion polls.
A core group had plotted this rise, including Juan Carlos Monedero, a former advisor to Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, and Bescansa. But the party’s most recognizable faces were Iglesias, now 38, and Errejón. They shared deep leftist convictions and an obsession with political theory. Both were informed by Latin American leftism, with Errejón writing about the Evo Morales government of Bolivia for his PhD thesis and Iglesias an admirer of Venezuela’s Bolivarian populism.
The duo’s collaborative leadership was cemented at the party’s founding national assembly in October 2014 in Vistalegre. It was a marriage made in heaven: a media-savvy firebrand of a leader who could channel popular anger and speak in soundbites; and his more softly-spoken, yet highly articulate, No. 2.
In the spring of 2015, the party got a taste of real power as Podemos-backed forces took control of major cities such as Madrid, Barcelona, Cádiz, Zaragoza and A Coruña in municipal elections. The result confirmed the party’s enormous appeal for younger, urban Spaniards.
Then, in the general election of December 2015, it won 69 seats in Congress, ending over three decades of two-party politics and establishing itself as the country’s third force. “Podemos is here to stay,” said El Español newspaper.
But that historic election was the start of its problems.
The vote failed to produce a clear winner, with both the governing PP losing its majority and the second-placed PSOE losing ground. Errejón saw an opportunity for Podemos to form a coalition or governing agreement with the PSOE, which was already working on a partnership with the new liberal party, Ciudadanos. Iglesias disagreed, fearing he would have to compromise too much with parties to his right and no deal was reached.
Six months later, a new election was held and Podemos ran in tandem with the communist-led United Left (IU). Having insisted since its inception that it represented Spaniards “down below” rather than anywhere on the conventional political spectrum, Podemos was now firmly placing itself on the hard left. The electoral merger failed, as the two parties together lost around a million votes. As campaign manager, Errejón shouldered much of the blame, although it emerged he had never been fully convinced of the partnership.
A good-natured Twitter conversation between Iglesias and his deputy in September summarized the brewing discord.
“We already scare the powerful, that’s not the challenge,” posted Errejón, as he called on his party to reach out to center-ground voters. “[We need to] seduce that part of the population who suffer but still don’t trust us.”
Iglesias replied that “speaking clearly and being different, we will seduce more.”
Since then, the tone has become less cordial, with social networks often the battleground for the feuding factions surrounding the two politicians. Reports of a conspiracy, plotted on the Telegram app, to undermine or even overthrow Iglesias have come to light and party militants have been trolling Errejón on Twitter with the hashtag #AsiNoInigo (“Not like that, Íñigo”).
Although Errejón is not formally challenging Iglesias as leader at the national conference, the two men will offer separate proposals for the party’s future strategy as their camps vie for control of the Civic Council executive board.
“It’s true that lately we’ve had a lot of differences and I think that recently [Errejón] has been making a lot of mistakes — he needs to put things right,” Iglesias told El País newspaper.
As if to highlight what is at stake this weekend, he has said: “There are two projects, two teams and two leaderships.”
Errejón, meanwhile, has underlined his concerns at the party’s move away from the mainstream, towards the left.
“In 2016 there was an ideological and political change in Podemos, which has been more worried about showing how far away it is from the other parties than about setting the agenda in our country,” he told the Eldiario.es newspaper.
Putting it in the pop culture context he and Iglesias are so fond of, he said: “[W]e’re like the guy who follows a band and, when it starts to sell loads of records, he goes back to listening to its earlier sound, which people didn’t listen to much, but which was more original.”
Iván Redondo, a political strategist who has advised the PP in the past, believes Errejón’s plan to occupy the center ground is a gamble.
“Podemos is still a new party,” he said. “It has a 5 million-strong voter base, but equally, that could be its voter ceiling. If they follow Errejón’s plan they’ll be playing on the terms and according to the logic of the traditional parties, which are very powerful in Spain.”
He added: “I don’t think Podemos is ready to win that battle right now.”
On the ground floor of an apartment block in Rivas, a working class district on the southern edge of Madrid, 30 or so people are gathered to discuss the future of Podemos. The barely furnished room, splashed with the party’s trademark purple, is regularly used to host meetings of the local “circle” – one of hundreds of Podemos civic associations across Spain that are the foundation of its popular support.
On this occasion, three Podemos politicians from its anti-capitalist wing — a less influential alternative to the two main clans — have come to talk about their proposals for the party in the hope of winning votes at Vistalegre. Many issues are discussed — austerity, evictions, women’s rights — but the Iglesias-Errejón feud casts a shadow.
“Podemos wasn’t something that was born in the corridors of the Complutense University,” Jacinto Morano, a young deputy for the party in the Madrid regional assembly, told those present. “It has many more voices than the two that we always hear.”
Being removed from the two main rival factions, Morano spoke freely and at times, humorously, insisting that the upcoming assembly is about more than “deciding between Mummy and Daddy, deciding who is prettier, Pablo or Íñigo.”
One woman, seated in the front row, told the visiting politicians: “I’m thinking of not voting at all [this weekend], after watching the fight between the so-called ‘friends.’”
But there is also a more general air of frustration in the room — that Podemos has failed to deliver on its early promise.
“People are more active now, they understand that politics affects you throughout your life,” Concha Vilches, a 58-year-old civil servant and Podemos supporter, told POLITICO after the meeting. “People have become mobilized and this party has channeled that. But what is happening now, unfortunately, we’ve seen it all before.”
She is referring to the Spanish left’s tendency to fracture or self-destruct. The PSOE split into warring factions during its 14 years in government under Felipe González. In the mid-1990s, meanwhile, the communist-led IU ganged up in opposition with the right-wing PP against González’s Socialists — a move widely believed to have alienated many traditional left-leaning voters.
During the meeting in Rivas, Vilches got into a heated discussion with the politicians, berating them for Podemos’ failure to reach out to the PSOE and form a leftist coalition government last year. “You can’t change things from the outside,” she told them. “And you’ll never be on the inside unless you’re prepared to make a pact with other parties.”
This weekend, Podemos will try to decide how it moves forward: as an overtly leftist party of protest, mobilizing Spaniards on the streets and disrupting the traditional powers, as Iglesias envisions; or as a more conventional force, trying to win over moderate voters and seeking to bring about change from within parliament and other institutions, as Errejón hopes.
Errejón insists he is not seeking to replace his former friend as leader. But Iglesias has promised to step aside if his proposals are defeated and there is a growing feeling that the upcoming assembly will be much more about the leadership than the many other issues due to be debated.
“The collaborative leadership, which was born in Vistalegre I, has finished,” said Redondo, the political strategist. “Vistalegre II is going to be a referendum: Yes or no to Iglesias?”
BERLIN — High-stakes diplomacy isn’t the first thing one associates with Slovenia, but President Borut Pahor might be about to change that.
With a Slovenian-born first lady in the U.S. and close relations with both Moscow and Berlin, the leader of the small Alpine nation is maneuvering his country to play a bigger role on the world stage.
That ambition faced its first test this week as Pahor shuttled between Berlin, where he met with Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday, and Moscow, where he was due to arrive Friday.
His goal: to cajole Russian leader Vladimir Putin into endorsing a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine, where a recent flare-up in hostilities threatens to reignite a war that has already left thousands dead and destabilized the region.
“The purpose of my visit, politically speaking, is to try to do my best to convince President Putin to show a gesture of goodwill,” Pahor told POLITICO in an interview on Thursday during his stop in Berlin. “I’m going there as a friend of Moscow, calling on a friend to show his political wisdom and do the right thing with a ceasefire in the Ukraine.”
After visiting Moscow and St. Petersburg, Pahor will travel to Kiev to meet with Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko. By then, the Slovene leader hopes to have convinced Putin to embrace a ceasefire, though he was careful to temper expectations.
“I dg that was born in the corridors of the Complutense University,” Jacinto Morano, a young deputy for the party in the Madrid regional assembly, told those present. “It has many more voices than the two that we always hear.”
Being removed from the two main rival factions, Morano spoke freely and at times, humorously, insisting that the upcoming assembly is about more than “deciding between Mummy and Daddy, deciding who is prettier, Pablo or Íñigo.”
One woman, seated in the front row, told the visiting politicians: “I’m thinking of not voting at all [this weekend], after watching the fight between the so-called ‘friends.’”
But there is also a more general air of frustration in the room — that Podemos has failed to deliver on its early promise.
“People are more active now, they understand that politics affects you throughout your life,” Concha Vilches, a 58-year-old civil servant and Podemos supporter, told POLITICO after the meeting. “People have become mobilized and this party has channeled that. But what is happening now, unfortunately, we’ve seen it all before.”
She is referring to the Spanish left’s tendency to fracture or self-destruct. The PSOE split into warring factions during its 14 years in government under Felipe González. In the mid-1990s, meanwhile, the communist-led IU ganged up in opposition with the right-wing PP against González’s Socialists — a move widely believed to have alienated many traditional left-leaning voters.
During the meeting in Rivas, Vilches got into a heated discussion with the politicians, berating them for Podemos’ failure to reach out to the PSOE and form a leftist coalition government last year. “You can’t change things from the outside,” she told them. “And you’ll never be on the inside unless you’re prepared to make a pact with other parties.”
This weekend, Podemos will try to decide how it moves forward: as an overtly leftist party of protest, mobilizing Spaniards on the streets and disrupting the traditional powers, as Iglesias envisions; or as a more conventional force, trying to win over moderate voters and seeking to bring about change from within parliament and other institutions, as Errejón hopes.
Errejón insists he is not seeking to replace his former friend as leader. But Iglesias has promised to step aside if his proposals are defeated and there is a growing feeling that the upcoming assembly will be much more about the leadership than the many other issues due to be debated.
“The collaborative leadership, which was born in Vistalegre I, has finished,” said Redondo, the political strategist. “Vistalegre II is going to be a referendum: Yes or no to Iglesias?”
BERLIN — High-stakes diplomacy isn’t the first thing one associates with Slovenia, but President Borut Pahor might be about to change that.
With a Slovenian-born first lady in the U.S. and close relations with both Moscow and Berlin, the leader of the small Alpine nation is maneuvering his country to play a bigger role on the world stage.
That ambition faced its first test this week as Pahor shuttled between Berlin, where he met with Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday, and Moscow, where he was due to arrive Friday.
His goal: to cajole Russian leader Vladimir Putin into endorsing a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine, where a recent flare-up in hostilities threatens to reignite a war that has already left thousands dead and destabilized the region.
“The purpose of my visit, politically speaking, is to try to do my best to convince President Putin to show a gesture of goodwill,” Pahor told POLITICO in an interview on Thursday during his stop in Berlin. “I’m going there as a friend of Moscow, calling on a friend to show his political wisdom and do the right thing with a ceasefire in the Ukraine.”
After visiting Moscow and St. Petersburg, Pahor will travel to Kiev to meet with Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko. By then, the Slovene leader hopes to have convinced Putin to embrace a ceasefire, though he was careful to temper expectations.
“I don’t have any formal mandate,” he said. “In case I would achieve something, even a small step, I would be very happy.”
Pahor’s initiative comes at a delicate time for eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian forces on and off since 2014. Though fighting never fully stopped, the conflict was largely subdued until the recent surge in violence.
The beginning of Trump’s presidency marked the perfect moment for Russia to illustrate its willingness to compromise with the West, Pahor said, calling the new U.S. president “a game changer.”
“With Trump, Putin is much more comfortable,” he said.
Putin visited Pahor in Slovenia in July, one of only a handful of bilateral visits to the EU in recent years, and the two leaders conferred for hours in private.
Though Slovenia is a member of NATO and has supported the EU’s sanctions against Russia, the country has a more neutral view of Moscow than many of its allies. That difference is largely explained by history. Unlike the Baltic states and the Slavic countries of Eastern Europe, Slovenia, which belonged to the Habsburg Empire for much of its history, never suffered under Russian oppression.
“My country never experienced the brutality of Russia’s Red Army,” the Slovene president said.
Even as much of the rest of the EU has shunned Russia since its annexation of Crimea, Pahor, a Social Democrat who served as prime minister from 2008 until 2012, argues it is better to engage with Moscow than to isolate it — a view he shares with Trump.
“Being inactive, we will not achieve a lot,” he said.
While Pahor said he wasn’t “naïve” about Putin, he displays a confidence in the Russian leader not shared by many of his European counterparts.
“I’ve never been betrayed by Putin,” he explained. “I’m going Moscow with an open heart.”
The Russia mission isn’t Pahor’s only effort to act as a bridge between Moscow and the West.
In his telephone call with Trump, Pahor proposed Slovenia as the venue for the American leader’s first summit with Putin, an offer he plans to make to Russian president as well. There would be some precedent for such a meeting: President George W. Bush held his first summit with Putin there in 2001.
Unlike Bush, who had difficulty distinguishing Slovenia and Slovakia, Trump knows it well, thanks to wife Melania, who was born in Novo Mesto.
Pahor declined to discuss the details of his discussion with Trump, except to say they had “a very nice debate.” The highlight, however, appears to have come when Trump put Melania on the phone.
“He invited the first lady to come on the phone and speak to me in the beautiful Slovene language,” Pahor said. “It was very touching. It was a lovely gesture.”
LONDON — There are “grounds for optimism” over U.K. financial services post Brexit, a former head of the British civil service said Thursday, claiming it was in the interests of the EU to give London smooth access to its markets.
Lord Robin Butler, who in December contributed to a gloomy House of Lords committee report on Brexit and financial services, said he now believes its conclusions had been “too pessimistic.”
Citing recent findings by the European Parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs, reported by the Guardian, he said it was in the interests of European businesses to maintain both passporting rights for U.K. firms and equivalence regimes that allow British firms to operate free from regulatory barriers within the EU.
“The EU partners have an interest in not using them in a vindictive manner,” the former cabinet secretary and cross-bench peer said during a debate in the House of Lords on Thursday.
“It’s relevant that while 5,500 U.K. firms benefit from passports for trading financial services in the EU, more than 8,000 EU firms benefit from passports for trading into the U.K.,” he added.
A transitional arrangement for trade between the U.K. and the EU after Brexit would also be preferable to a “cliff-edge,” he said, reflecting the approon’t have any formal mandate,” he said. “In case I would achieve something, even a small step, I would be very happy.”
Pahor’s initiative comes at a delicate time for eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian forces on and off since 2014. Though fighting never fully stopped, the conflict was largely subdued until the recent surge in violence.
The beginning of Trump’s presidency marked the perfect moment for Russia to illustrate its willingness to compromise with the West, Pahor said, calling the new U.S. president “a game changer.”
“With Trump, Putin is much more comfortable,” he said.
Putin visited Pahor in Slovenia in July, one of only a handful of bilateral visits to the EU in recent years, and the two leaders conferred for hours in private.
Though Slovenia is a member of NATO and has supported the EU’s sanctions against Russia, the country has a more neutral view of Moscow than many of its allies. That difference is largely explained by history. Unlike the Baltic states and the Slavic countries of Eastern Europe, Slovenia, which belonged to the Habsburg Empire for much of its history, never suffered under Russian oppression.
“My country never experienced the brutality of Russia’s Red Army,” the Slovene president said.
Even as much of the rest of the EU has shunned Russia since its annexation of Crimea, Pahor, a Social Democrat who served as prime minister from 2008 until 2012, argues it is better to engage with Moscow than to isolate it — a view he shares with Trump.
“Being inactive, we will not achieve a lot,” he said.
While Pahor said he wasn’t “naïve” about Putin, he displays a confidence in the Russian leader not shared by many of his European counterparts.
“I’ve never been betrayed by Putin,” he explained. “I’m going Moscow with an open heart.”
The Russia mission isn’t Pahor’s only effort to act as a bridge between Moscow and the West.
In his telephone call with Trump, Pahor proposed Slovenia as the venue for the American leader’s first summit with Putin, an offer he plans to make to Russian president as well. There would be some precedent for such a meeting: President George W. Bush held his first summit with Putin there in 2001.
Unlike Bush, who had difficulty distinguishing Slovenia and Slovakia, Trump knows it well, thanks to wife Melania, who was born in Novo Mesto.
Pahor declined to discuss the details of his discussion with Trump, except to say they had “a very nice debate.” The highlight, however, appears to have come when Trump put Melania on the phone.
“He invited the first lady to come on the phone and speak to me in the beautiful Slovene language,” Pahor said. “It was very touching. It was a lovely gesture.”
LONDON — There are “grounds for optimism” over U.K. financial services post Brexit, a former head of the British civil service said Thursday, claiming it was in the interests of the EU to give London smooth access to its markets.
Lord Robin Butler, who in December contributed to a gloomy House of Lords committee report on Brexit and financial services, said he now believes its conclusions had been “too pessimistic.”
Citing recent findings by the European Parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs, reported by the Guardian, he said it was in the interests of European businesses to maintain both passporting rights for U.K. firms and equivalence regimes that allow British firms to operate free from regulatory barriers within the EU.
“The EU partners have an interest in not using them in a vindictive manner,” the former cabinet secretary and cross-bench peer said during a debate in the House of Lords on Thursday.
“It’s relevant that while 5,500 U.K. firms benefit from passports for trading financial services in the EU, more than 8,000 EU firms benefit from passports for trading into the U.K.,” he added.
A transitional arrangement for trade between the U.K. and the EU after Brexit would also be preferable to a “cliff-edge,” he said, reflecting the approach signaled by Prime Minister Theresa May.
However, “a rapid agreement respecting the mutual interests of both sides” would be the ideal outcome, he said, suggesting that maintaining “harmony” with EU regulatory would be necessary for a quick deal.
“This may involve conforming with regimes and requirements which we will have no formal role in formulating. But it does mean we will have a mutual interest in keeping close to each other,” Butler said.
A motion of no-confidence has been filed against John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, over his statements about Donald Trump.
On Monday, Bercow said the U.S. president should not be allowed to address the British parliament during his state visit later this year.
He said MPs’ “opposition to racism and to sexism” and “support for equality and an independent judiciary” were “hugely important considerations.” But many MPs were critical, saying he had not respected the role of the Speaker, who is supposed to be politically neutral.
Conservative MP James Duddridge said the Speaker had “overstepped the mark a number of times” and called his remarks “wholly inappropriate.”
“(It) means he can no longer reasonably chair as Speaker any debate on those subjects,” Duddridge said.
Prime Minister Theresa May, who visited Trump in Washington last month, said the Queen had invited the new U.S. president for a state visit. Trump accepted the invitation.
It prompted a petition saying that “a state visit would cause embarrassment to Her Majesty the Queen” that was signed by more than 1.8 million people. The British parliament will debate the issue on February 20.
Romania’s Justice Minister Florin Iordache announced his resignation on Thursday, taking responsibility for a controversial decree on corruption that was repealed after it sparked mass protests.
In a short statement to reporters, Iordache said all his ministry’s actions had been legal and constitutional “but that was not enough for public opinion.”
Hundreds of thousands of people staged some of the biggest demonstrations in Romania since the fall of Communism after the government passed a decree last week to decriminalize some corruption cases. Many people saw the decree, which covered cases involving less than €45,000, as a way for corrupt politicians to avoid jail.
The government backed down and repealed the decree Sunday but protests against the Social Democrat-led administration have continued. A mass demonstration is planned for Sunday.
The government has rejected calls for its resignation, noting that it won a convincing election victory in December. Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu had previously hinted that Iordache would be held responsible for the problems caused by the decree. The premier said the purpose of the measure had not been communicated clearly.
Lawyers for French conservative presidential candidate François Fillon and his wife Penelope on Thursday called on prosecutors to drop the “illegal” probe into the pair’s financial dealings, local media reported.
Lawyer Antonin Levy said a preliminary investigation into payments made by Fillon to his wife for work she allegedly did not do was a “serious blow to the principle of the separation of power” and “violates the fundamental principles of constitutional law.”
Fillon has come under fire since media reported his wife and two of his children received nearly €1 million in taxpayers’ money.
In a letter published Wednesday, Fillon told voters he “made a mistake” by giving family members parliamentary jobs, but said he had “nothing to hide.”
The first round of the election takes place on April 23.
In her strongest repudiation yet of the new American president, British Prime Minister Theresa May called Donald Trump’s executive order banning citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entry “wrong” and “divisive,” Reuters reported Thursday.
She said the ban was “not a policy that the United Kingdom would adopt.”
May was the first national leader to meet Trumpach signaled by Prime Minister Theresa May.
However, “a rapid agreement respecting the mutual interests of both sides” would be the ideal outcome, he said, suggesting that maintaining “harmony” with EU regulatory would be necessary for a quick deal.
“This may involve conforming with regimes and requirements which we will have no formal role in formulating. But it does mean we will have a mutual interest in keeping close to each other,” Butler said.
A motion of no-confidence has been filed against John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, over his statements about Donald Trump.
On Monday, Bercow said the U.S. president should not be allowed to address the British parliament during his state visit later this year.
He said MPs’ “opposition to racism and to sexism” and “support for equality and an independent judiciary” were “hugely important considerations.” But many MPs were critical, saying he had not respected the role of the Speaker, who is supposed to be politically neutral.
Conservative MP James Duddridge said the Speaker had “overstepped the mark a number of times” and called his remarks “wholly inappropriate.”
“(It) means he can no longer reasonably chair as Speaker any debate on those subjects,” Duddridge said.
Prime Minister Theresa May, who visited Trump in Washington last month, said the Queen had invited the new U.S. president for a state visit. Trump accepted the invitation.
It prompted a petition saying that “a state visit would cause embarrassment to Her Majesty the Queen” that was signed by more than 1.8 million people. The British parliament will debate the issue on February 20.
Romania’s Justice Minister Florin Iordache announced his resignation on Thursday, taking responsibility for a controversial decree on corruption that was repealed after it sparked mass protests.
In a short statement to reporters, Iordache said all his ministry’s actions had been legal and constitutional “but that was not enough for public opinion.”
Hundreds of thousands of people staged some of the biggest demonstrations in Romania since the fall of Communism after the government passed a decree last week to decriminalize some corruption cases. Many people saw the decree, which covered cases involving less than €45,000, as a way for corrupt politicians to avoid jail.
The government backed down and repealed the decree Sunday but protests against the Social Democrat-led administration have continued. A mass demonstration is planned for Sunday.
The government has rejected calls for its resignation, noting that it won a convincing election victory in December. Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu had previously hinted that Iordache would be held responsible for the problems caused by the decree. The premier said the purpose of the measure had not been communicated clearly.
Lawyers for French conservative presidential candidate François Fillon and his wife Penelope on Thursday called on prosecutors to drop the “illegal” probe into the pair’s financial dealings, local media reported.
Lawyer Antonin Levy said a preliminary investigation into payments made by Fillon to his wife for work she allegedly did not do was a “serious blow to the principle of the separation of power” and “violates the fundamental principles of constitutional law.”
Fillon has come under fire since media reported his wife and two of his children received nearly €1 million in taxpayers’ money.
In a letter published Wednesday, Fillon told voters he “made a mistake” by giving family members parliamentary jobs, but said he had “nothing to hide.”
The first round of the election takes place on April 23.
In her strongest repudiation yet of the new American president, British Prime Minister Theresa May called Donald Trump’s executive order banning citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entry “wrong” and “divisive,” Reuters reported Thursday.
She said the ban was “not a policy that the United Kingdom would adopt.”
May was the first national leader to meet Trump after his inauguration when she visited Washington last month. Although she managed to gain an assurance that dual British nationals from the seven affected countries would be let in to the U.S., May has faced criticism at home for not speaking out against the travel ban.
Referring to the travel ban last week, May’s spokesperson said, “we do not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking.”
Eight Republican senators urged President Donald Trump on Thursday to take a harder line on Russia, the clearest evidence yet that Trump struck a major nerve with members of his own party when he refused to label Vladimir Putin a killer over the weekend.
The senators’ letter to Trump, led by Senator Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), also shows that more Republicans are increasingly willing to take on Trump on foreign policy issues when the new president’s views are outside the party’s mainstream.
“While we should seek common ground with Russia in the areas of mutual interest, we must never pursue cooperation with Russia at the expense of our fundamental interests of defending our allies and promoting our values,” says the letter.
It is also signed by Republican Senators Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Todd Young of Indiana, Rob Portman of Ohio, Mike Rounds of South Dakota, Joni Ernst of Iowa, Susan Collins of Maine and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
Notably missing are Senators John McCain of Arizona and Marco Rubio of Florida, who along with Graham, have led the charge in pressing Trump on Russia — a sign that resistance to Trump’s foreign policy is moving beyond just his three most ardent critics.
The letter urges Trump to condemn Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and says sanctions on Russia should not be lifted until it relinquishes control of Crimea.
“Most importantly, we urge you to relay to Moscow that the values of democracy, human rights, transparency, and accountability are central to U.S. foreign policy, that these values are non-negotiable, and that the United States will continue to advance these values globally, including with regard to Russia,” the senators write. “President Putin must know that the United States remains a beacon of hope and democracy around the world, and will stand up for what is right.”
In an interview with Fox News’ Bill O’Reilly that aired on Sunday, Trump compared the human rights abuses of the Putin regime with the United States.
“He’s a killer,” O’Reilly said of Putin.
“There are a lot of killers,” Trump said. “You think our country’s so innocent?”
LONDON — There is no point in the EU conducting a “disruptive” Brexit negotiation with the U.K, Paolo Gentiloni said Thursday following talks with Theresa May at Downing Street.
The Italian prime minister said while it would “not be an easy negotiation,” Article 50 talks should be conducted with the goal of finding “the best possible” agreement with the U.K.
Gentiloni added that it would be a priority for Italy to secure the continued residency rights of its citizens living in the U.K. after Brexit.
“We know it will not be an easy negotiation,” Gentiloni said at a press conference alongside May. “But we also know that we have to deal with it, and this will be the Italian approach, in a friendly and constructive way. We have no interest in disruptive talks.”
His stance will be welcomed in London, where there are fears some EU leaders could take a hard line in negotiations in order to protect the unity of the bloc and discourage other member countries from wanting to follow Britain to the exit door.
It comes after German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble said last week it was not the intention to “punish” the British people for deciding to leave.
The softer stance emerging from Berlin and Rome is in contrast to suggestions from Paris that the U.K. should accept any negative consequences of its departure. Jacques Audibert, a diplomatic adviser to President François Hollande, said last month the U.K. could not expect a better deal outside of the EU than it has insid after his inauguration when she visited Washington last month. Although she managed to gain an assurance that dual British nationals from the seven affected countries would be let in to the U.S., May has faced criticism at home for not speaking out against the travel ban.
Referring to the travel ban last week, May’s spokesperson said, “we do not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking.”
Eight Republican senators urged President Donald Trump on Thursday to take a harder line on Russia, the clearest evidence yet that Trump struck a major nerve with members of his own party when he refused to label Vladimir Putin a killer over the weekend.
The senators’ letter to Trump, led by Senator Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), also shows that more Republicans are increasingly willing to take on Trump on foreign policy issues when the new president’s views are outside the party’s mainstream.
“While we should seek common ground with Russia in the areas of mutual interest, we must never pursue cooperation with Russia at the expense of our fundamental interests of defending our allies and promoting our values,” says the letter.
It is also signed by Republican Senators Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Todd Young of Indiana, Rob Portman of Ohio, Mike Rounds of South Dakota, Joni Ernst of Iowa, Susan Collins of Maine and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
Notably missing are Senators John McCain of Arizona and Marco Rubio of Florida, who along with Graham, have led the charge in pressing Trump on Russia — a sign that resistance to Trump’s foreign policy is moving beyond just his three most ardent critics.
The letter urges Trump to condemn Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and says sanctions on Russia should not be lifted until it relinquishes control of Crimea.
“Most importantly, we urge you to relay to Moscow that the values of democracy, human rights, transparency, and accountability are central to U.S. foreign policy, that these values are non-negotiable, and that the United States will continue to advance these values globally, including with regard to Russia,” the senators write. “President Putin must know that the United States remains a beacon of hope and democracy around the world, and will stand up for what is right.”
In an interview with Fox News’ Bill O’Reilly that aired on Sunday, Trump compared the human rights abuses of the Putin regime with the United States.
“He’s a killer,” O’Reilly said of Putin.
“There are a lot of killers,” Trump said. “You think our country’s so innocent?”
LONDON — There is no point in the EU conducting a “disruptive” Brexit negotiation with the U.K, Paolo Gentiloni said Thursday following talks with Theresa May at Downing Street.
The Italian prime minister said while it would “not be an easy negotiation,” Article 50 talks should be conducted with the goal of finding “the best possible” agreement with the U.K.
Gentiloni added that it would be a priority for Italy to secure the continued residency rights of its citizens living in the U.K. after Brexit.
“We know it will not be an easy negotiation,” Gentiloni said at a press conference alongside May. “But we also know that we have to deal with it, and this will be the Italian approach, in a friendly and constructive way. We have no interest in disruptive talks.”
His stance will be welcomed in London, where there are fears some EU leaders could take a hard line in negotiations in order to protect the unity of the bloc and discourage other member countries from wanting to follow Britain to the exit door.
It comes after German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble said last week it was not the intention to “punish” the British people for deciding to leave.
The softer stance emerging from Berlin and Rome is in contrast to suggestions from Paris that the U.K. should accept any negative consequences of its departure. Jacques Audibert, a diplomatic adviser to President François Hollande, said last month the U.K. could not expect a better deal outside of the EU than it has inside it.
British MPs gave their overwhelming backing Wednesday to legislation authorizing May to trigger Article 50 — formally notifying the EU of the U.K.’s intention to leave — by the end of March.
May insisted that lucrative trade ties between Italy and the U.K. need not be affected by Brexit, saying that her “priority” in the negotiations was achieving a free-trade agreement with the EU.
“I am determined that a global Britain will be a great champion of free trade in a way that can only be good for British and Italian businesses and jobs,” she said, singling out British agricultural, pharmaceutical and defense trade with Italy.
Gentiloni said both countries had an interest in “reassuring” Italian citizens in the U.K., and U.K. citizens in Italy, and backed May’s call for a “reciprocal” agreement guaranteeing their residency rights. May repeated that she wanted and expected an early agreement on reciprocal rights, claiming there was “goodwill on all sides” over the issue.
Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this report.
Media mogul Rupert Murdoch was in the room when former British cabinet minister and Leave campaigner Michael Gove interviewed Donald Trump, the FT reported Thursday.
The interview took place in January, but it was only revealed Thursday that Murdoch was present when Gove and German journalist Kai Deikmann interviewed Trump at his Fifth Avenue residence. A widely circulated picture on the day of the interview shows Trump and Gove grinning at the camera and holding their thumbs aloft, but Murdoch is absent.
It is unclear if Murdoch arranged the interview.
Murdoch supported Gove during his brief leadership bid after David Cameron’s resignation. After failing in his bid to lead the Conservative party, Gove returned to the Times of London, a Murdoch-owned newspaper, to write a weekly column for which he is paid £150,000 a year.
Gove is reported to have said that Murdoch is “one of the most impressive and significant figures of the last 50 years.”
The German Social Democrats saw a big rise in membership after former European Parliament President Martin Schulz was chosen as the party’s candidate for chancellor.
Local media reported Thursday that 4,613 people joined the SPD in the period January 24 to February 7.
Katarina Barley, the SPD’s general-secretary, said she was “astonished” by the rise in membership. “The party loves Martin Schulz. And many jump on the Schulz bandwagon now.”
The SPD already was the biggest party in Germany, with 432,796 members registered as of December 31 last year. The Christian Democrats of Chancellor Angela Merkel were very close behind with 431,920 members.
An opinion poll published last week showed that Schulz’s candidacy helped the party to its highest approval rating since 2013.
The Dutch government cannot guarantee the authenticity of more than 400,000 signatures on a petition that triggered a referendum on an EU-Ukraine deal, local media reported Thursday.
“It cannot be established with certainty that the requests [signatures] have been submitted by several individuals,” Interior Minister Ronald Plasterk said in response to a freedom of information request.
The identity of the people who signed the petition was only verified by checking names against the electorate register. But the government did not check if those people actually signed, Plasterk said.
Bart Nijman, one of the initiators of the referendum, said the signatures were collected in an “honest way” and stressed there was no evidence of fraud.
It’s not possible to retroactively check the signatures as they have been destroyed and the result of the referendum is irrevocable, according to the media report.
The referendum on the Ukraine deal was the first to take place under a Dutch law that forces the government to put issues to a vote if there is a petition with over 300,000 signatures.
Voters ultimately rejected the EU-Ukraine deal, with 61.1 percent voting against. This forced parliament to debate the issue, and Prime Minister Mark Rutte to finde it.
British MPs gave their overwhelming backing Wednesday to legislation authorizing May to trigger Article 50 — formally notifying the EU of the U.K.’s intention to leave — by the end of March.
May insisted that lucrative trade ties between Italy and the U.K. need not be affected by Brexit, saying that her “priority” in the negotiations was achieving a free-trade agreement with the EU.
“I am determined that a global Britain will be a great champion of free trade in a way that can only be good for British and Italian businesses and jobs,” she said, singling out British agricultural, pharmaceutical and defense trade with Italy.
Gentiloni said both countries had an interest in “reassuring” Italian citizens in the U.K., and U.K. citizens in Italy, and backed May’s call for a “reciprocal” agreement guaranteeing their residency rights. May repeated that she wanted and expected an early agreement on reciprocal rights, claiming there was “goodwill on all sides” over the issue.
Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this report.
Media mogul Rupert Murdoch was in the room when former British cabinet minister and Leave campaigner Michael Gove interviewed Donald Trump, the FT reported Thursday.
The interview took place in January, but it was only revealed Thursday that Murdoch was present when Gove and German journalist Kai Deikmann interviewed Trump at his Fifth Avenue residence. A widely circulated picture on the day of the interview shows Trump and Gove grinning at the camera and holding their thumbs aloft, but Murdoch is absent.
It is unclear if Murdoch arranged the interview.
Murdoch supported Gove during his brief leadership bid after David Cameron’s resignation. After failing in his bid to lead the Conservative party, Gove returned to the Times of London, a Murdoch-owned newspaper, to write a weekly column for which he is paid £150,000 a year.
Gove is reported to have said that Murdoch is “one of the most impressive and significant figures of the last 50 years.”
The German Social Democrats saw a big rise in membership after former European Parliament President Martin Schulz was chosen as the party’s candidate for chancellor.
Local media reported Thursday that 4,613 people joined the SPD in the period January 24 to February 7.
Katarina Barley, the SPD’s general-secretary, said she was “astonished” by the rise in membership. “The party loves Martin Schulz. And many jump on the Schulz bandwagon now.”
The SPD already was the biggest party in Germany, with 432,796 members registered as of December 31 last year. The Christian Democrats of Chancellor Angela Merkel were very close behind with 431,920 members.
An opinion poll published last week showed that Schulz’s candidacy helped the party to its highest approval rating since 2013.
The Dutch government cannot guarantee the authenticity of more than 400,000 signatures on a petition that triggered a referendum on an EU-Ukraine deal, local media reported Thursday.
“It cannot be established with certainty that the requests [signatures] have been submitted by several individuals,” Interior Minister Ronald Plasterk said in response to a freedom of information request.
The identity of the people who signed the petition was only verified by checking names against the electorate register. But the government did not check if those people actually signed, Plasterk said.
Bart Nijman, one of the initiators of the referendum, said the signatures were collected in an “honest way” and stressed there was no evidence of fraud.
It’s not possible to retroactively check the signatures as they have been destroyed and the result of the referendum is irrevocable, according to the media report.
The referendum on the Ukraine deal was the first to take place under a Dutch law that forces the government to put issues to a vote if there is a petition with over 300,000 signatures.
Voters ultimately rejected the EU-Ukraine deal, with 61.1 percent voting against. This forced parliament to debate the issue, and Prime Minister Mark Rutte to find a compromise with EU leaders on amendments to the text.
Last week, it emerged that votes in the March 15 Dutch parliamentary election will have to be counted manually over hacking fears and software mistakes.
Abdallah El-Hamahmy visited the Louvre five days before he attacked an on-duty soldier with a machete near the Paris museum’s underground shopping center last Friday, Le Parisien reported Thursday.
The 29-year-old Egyptian national participated in a three-hour museum tour on January 29, according to reports. He booked the tour under his real name.
A museum guide told Le Parisien he recognized El-Hamahmy, whom he remembered as “one of the most friendly” members of the tourist group he led through the museum.
El-Hamahmy planned to deface the museum’s artwork because it is a powerful symbol of French culture, he told investigators this week.
Investigators confirmed the man’s identity during questioning Wednesday, French media reported. He has denied acting on behalf of the Islamic State, but said he adheres to the same ideology.
The Paris prosecutor’s office opened an investigation into counts of “aggravated attempted murder linked to a terrorist enterprise and criminal terrorist conspiracy,” it said in a statement last Friday.
El-Hamahmy reportedly lived in the United Arab Emirates with his wife and child, and entered France in late January on a one-month tourist visa issued in Dubai. He rented an apartment in Paris’ 8th arrondissement, where authorities found machete cases and an Egyptian passport among his belongings.
He is believed to have tweeted messages in support of the Islamic State shortly before the assault on Friday morning.
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will be asked to leave the Ecuadorian embassy in London within a month if the country’s main opposition candidate Guillermo Lasso wins the presidential elections next week.
In an interview with the Guardian, Lasso, who belongs to the right-wing Creo-Suma alliance, said after over four years, it was time for Assange to move on because his asylum was expensive and no longer justified.
“The Ecuadorian people have been paying a cost that we should not have to bear,” he said. “We will cordially ask Señor Assange to leave within 30 days of assuming a mandate.”
Ahead of the first round of voting on February 19, polls show Lasso is seven points behind ruling party candidate Lenín Moreno, but the former banker has been gaining support and will probably make it to a run-off.
The head of the Vote Leave campaign has repaid a £50,000 charitable grant he used to produce a 1,000-page anti-EU report, the Guardian reported Thursday.
Matthew Elliott, who spearheaded the official pro-Brexit camp in last June’s referendum, came under fire from the Charity Commission for using a grant from the Politics and Economics Research Trust (PERT) to fund a high-profile political dossier called “Change or Go: How Britain Would Gain Influence and Prosper Outside an Unreformed EU.” The report was published by the PERT-funded group Business for Britain in 2015, before then Prime Minister David Cameron attempted to renegotiate the U.K.’s relationship with the bloc.
Elliot set up PERT as an educational charity in 2006, allowing it to benefit from tax relief on donations. The commission ruled it should not have lent its support to research that took a political position on EU membership. The commission agreed to investigate the matter after Labour MP Emma Reynolds complained the charity was engaging in political activity.
“Charities with objects to further education cannot promote a political or predetermined point of view,” the commission said in a report published Thursday.
The charity’s trustees include several high-profile Euroskeptics. Over the past five years it has given more than £2 million in grants to anti-EU campaign groups run by Elliott including Business for Britain and the TaxPayers’ Alliance. Elliott himself stepped down from PERT in 2010.
According to PERT’s latest annual report, the money w a compromise with EU leaders on amendments to the text.
Last week, it emerged that votes in the March 15 Dutch parliamentary election will have to be counted manually over hacking fears and software mistakes.
Abdallah El-Hamahmy visited the Louvre five days before he attacked an on-duty soldier with a machete near the Paris museum’s underground shopping center last Friday, Le Parisien reported Thursday.
The 29-year-old Egyptian national participated in a three-hour museum tour on January 29, according to reports. He booked the tour under his real name.
A museum guide told Le Parisien he recognized El-Hamahmy, whom he remembered as “one of the most friendly” members of the tourist group he led through the museum.
El-Hamahmy planned to deface the museum’s artwork because it is a powerful symbol of French culture, he told investigators this week.
Investigators confirmed the man’s identity during questioning Wednesday, French media reported. He has denied acting on behalf of the Islamic State, but said he adheres to the same ideology.
The Paris prosecutor’s office opened an investigation into counts of “aggravated attempted murder linked to a terrorist enterprise and criminal terrorist conspiracy,” it said in a statement last Friday.
El-Hamahmy reportedly lived in the United Arab Emirates with his wife and child, and entered France in late January on a one-month tourist visa issued in Dubai. He rented an apartment in Paris’ 8th arrondissement, where authorities found machete cases and an Egyptian passport among his belongings.
He is believed to have tweeted messages in support of the Islamic State shortly before the assault on Friday morning.
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will be asked to leave the Ecuadorian embassy in London within a month if the country’s main opposition candidate Guillermo Lasso wins the presidential elections next week.
In an interview with the Guardian, Lasso, who belongs to the right-wing Creo-Suma alliance, said after over four years, it was time for Assange to move on because his asylum was expensive and no longer justified.
“The Ecuadorian people have been paying a cost that we should not have to bear,” he said. “We will cordially ask Señor Assange to leave within 30 days of assuming a mandate.”
Ahead of the first round of voting on February 19, polls show Lasso is seven points behind ruling party candidate Lenín Moreno, but the former banker has been gaining support and will probably make it to a run-off.
The head of the Vote Leave campaign has repaid a £50,000 charitable grant he used to produce a 1,000-page anti-EU report, the Guardian reported Thursday.
Matthew Elliott, who spearheaded the official pro-Brexit camp in last June’s referendum, came under fire from the Charity Commission for using a grant from the Politics and Economics Research Trust (PERT) to fund a high-profile political dossier called “Change or Go: How Britain Would Gain Influence and Prosper Outside an Unreformed EU.” The report was published by the PERT-funded group Business for Britain in 2015, before then Prime Minister David Cameron attempted to renegotiate the U.K.’s relationship with the bloc.
Elliot set up PERT as an educational charity in 2006, allowing it to benefit from tax relief on donations. The commission ruled it should not have lent its support to research that took a political position on EU membership. The commission agreed to investigate the matter after Labour MP Emma Reynolds complained the charity was engaging in political activity.
“Charities with objects to further education cannot promote a political or predetermined point of view,” the commission said in a report published Thursday.
The charity’s trustees include several high-profile Euroskeptics. Over the past five years it has given more than £2 million in grants to anti-EU campaign groups run by Elliott including Business for Britain and the TaxPayers’ Alliance. Elliott himself stepped down from PERT in 2010.
According to PERT’s latest annual report, the money was repaid in 2016 “after mutual agreement that the project has materially altered in the course of its execution.”
The U.S. Senate on Wednesday voted to install Senator Jeff Sessions as the nation’s next attorney general, ending a confirmation battle that plunged the chamber into bitter acrimony and shattered all notions of senatorial courtesy.
The narrow confirmation of the Alabama Republican as head of the Justice Department, finalized with a 52-47 vote Wednesday evening, was never in doubt as Republicans stuck together to elevate their colleague to President Donald Trump’s Cabinet.
But the final hours of the confirmation fight over Sessions and his fitness to serve as attorney general came to a head over the extremely rare and dramatic rebuke of Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), whom Republican senators deemed had violated Senate rules forbidding one member from impugning another.
“Frankly, Jeff Sessions is a very fine person, and they all admit that,” Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), who has been incensed for weeks over how Democrats have fought the nomination, said Wednesday. “I guess because he’s from Alabama, they think every white male is a racist, or at least might be. So that’s wrong. I just think that’s wrong, it’s obnoxious and it’s something that we ought all decry.”
Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) took it one step further during an interview on Fox News, calling Warren’s criticisms against Sessions “demonstrably false” and accusing Democrats of being the “party of the Ku Klux Klan.”
Sessions addressed the Senate afterward, noting the controversy surrounding his nomination. “I’ve always tried to keep my disagreements from being personal,” he told his colleagues, urging them not to insult people they disagree with. He then read a letter of resignation from the Senate.
The nomination of Sessions – one of the Senate’s most affable characters – has been fraught with controversy since the beginning. The veteran Alabama senator had been rejected for a federal judgeship more than three decades ago over accusations of racism as a prosecutor, which was an immediate focus in his latest confirmation fight. Democrats also charged that Sessions’ deeply conservative stances on issues like immigration, civil rights, abortion and criminal justice reform was out of line for what was expected of the nation’s chief law enforcement official.
His surrogates attempted to fight off the racism charges early on, lining up scores of African-American surrogates who testified on Sessions’ behalf, both through the media and in his confirmation hearing in January. During his own testimony, Sessions directly rejected the racism allegations, calling them “damnably false charges.”
“The caricature of me in 1986 was not correct,” Sessions testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which he served for years. “I do not harbor the kind of animosity and race-based discrimination ideas that I was accused of. I did not.”
But many civil-rights groups and influential black lawmakers quickly mobilized against him. Senator Cory Booker (D-N.J.) took the remarkable step of testifying against another senator in line for a Cabinet position – an act that had never been done before in the history of the chamber.
For weeks, Senate Republicans have defended one of their own. Traditionally, senators have shown a deference to a colleagues who are promoted to the Cabinet – but for Sessions, that wasn’t the case.
“We all know our colleague from Alabama. He’s honest. He’s fair. He’s been a friend of many of us on both sides of the aisle,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Wednesday. “It’s been tough to watch all this good man has been put through in recent weeks. This is a well-qualified colleague with a deep reverence for the law.”
One conservative group, the Judicial Crisis Network, launched ads in an attempt to pressure red-state Democrats up for reelection next year to support Sessions. But ultimately, all Democrats save one – Senator Joe Manchin of Weas repaid in 2016 “after mutual agreement that the project has materially altered in the course of its execution.”
The U.S. Senate on Wednesday voted to install Senator Jeff Sessions as the nation’s next attorney general, ending a confirmation battle that plunged the chamber into bitter acrimony and shattered all notions of senatorial courtesy.
The narrow confirmation of the Alabama Republican as head of the Justice Department, finalized with a 52-47 vote Wednesday evening, was never in doubt as Republicans stuck together to elevate their colleague to President Donald Trump’s Cabinet.
But the final hours of the confirmation fight over Sessions and his fitness to serve as attorney general came to a head over the extremely rare and dramatic rebuke of Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), whom Republican senators deemed had violated Senate rules forbidding one member from impugning another.
“Frankly, Jeff Sessions is a very fine person, and they all admit that,” Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), who has been incensed for weeks over how Democrats have fought the nomination, said Wednesday. “I guess because he’s from Alabama, they think every white male is a racist, or at least might be. So that’s wrong. I just think that’s wrong, it’s obnoxious and it’s something that we ought all decry.”
Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) took it one step further during an interview on Fox News, calling Warren’s criticisms against Sessions “demonstrably false” and accusing Democrats of being the “party of the Ku Klux Klan.”
Sessions addressed the Senate afterward, noting the controversy surrounding his nomination. “I’ve always tried to keep my disagreements from being personal,” he told his colleagues, urging them not to insult people they disagree with. He then read a letter of resignation from the Senate.
The nomination of Sessions – one of the Senate’s most affable characters – has been fraught with controversy since the beginning. The veteran Alabama senator had been rejected for a federal judgeship more than three decades ago over accusations of racism as a prosecutor, which was an immediate focus in his latest confirmation fight. Democrats also charged that Sessions’ deeply conservative stances on issues like immigration, civil rights, abortion and criminal justice reform was out of line for what was expected of the nation’s chief law enforcement official.
His surrogates attempted to fight off the racism charges early on, lining up scores of African-American surrogates who testified on Sessions’ behalf, both through the media and in his confirmation hearing in January. During his own testimony, Sessions directly rejected the racism allegations, calling them “damnably false charges.”
“The caricature of me in 1986 was not correct,” Sessions testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which he served for years. “I do not harbor the kind of animosity and race-based discrimination ideas that I was accused of. I did not.”
But many civil-rights groups and influential black lawmakers quickly mobilized against him. Senator Cory Booker (D-N.J.) took the remarkable step of testifying against another senator in line for a Cabinet position – an act that had never been done before in the history of the chamber.
For weeks, Senate Republicans have defended one of their own. Traditionally, senators have shown a deference to a colleagues who are promoted to the Cabinet – but for Sessions, that wasn’t the case.
“We all know our colleague from Alabama. He’s honest. He’s fair. He’s been a friend of many of us on both sides of the aisle,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Wednesday. “It’s been tough to watch all this good man has been put through in recent weeks. This is a well-qualified colleague with a deep reverence for the law.”
One conservative group, the Judicial Crisis Network, launched ads in an attempt to pressure red-state Democrats up for reelection next year to support Sessions. But ultimately, all Democrats save one – Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia – opposed the Alabama senator.
“As attorney general, Senator Sessions will serve as the people’s lawyer, not the president’s lawyer,” Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) said. “I’m worried he will not be an independent voice from the president as the job requires, and will instead defend all pieces of the president’s agenda without question – whether constitutional or not.” Sessions was a close Trump ally during the presidential campaign and was his first endorser from the Senate.
And then there was the Warren episode.
On Tuesday, the Massachusetts senator had been reading a letter from Coretta Scott King, the widow of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., that she sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1986. One of King’s criticisms that Warren repeated on the floor – that Sessions would “chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens” – was deemed a violation of Senate rules silenced, and Warren was forced to be silent for the rest of the debate.
The chaos that ensued only served to elevate Warren’s initial cause: Shine a light on Sessions’ record and try to defeat him at all costs.
“I just wanted to read the letter, and I want everybody to read the letter,” Warren said in an interview with POLITICO on Wednesday. “That’s how I see it.
Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Trump administration officials pushing to designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization face at least one significant obstacle: analysts at the Central Intelligence Agency.
CIA experts have warned that so labeling the decades-old Islamist group “may fuel extremism” and damage relations with America’s allies, according to a summary of a finished intelligence report for the intelligence community and policymakers that was shared with POLITICO by a U.S. official.
The document, published internally on January 31, notes that the Brotherhood — which boasts millions of followers around the Arab world — has “rejected violence as a matter of official policy and opposed al-Qa’ida and ISIS.”
It acknowledges that “a minority of MB [Muslim Brotherhood] members have engaged in violence, most often in response to harsh regime repression, perceived foreign occupation, or civil conflicts.” Noting that there are branches of the group in countries such as Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco and Tunisia, it cautions that some of America’s allies in the region “probably worry that such a step could destabilize their internal politics, feed extremist narratives, and anger Muslims worldwide.”
“MB groups enjoy widespread support across the Near East-North Africa region and many Arabs and Muslims worldwide would view an MB designation as an affront to their core religious and societal values,” the document continues. “Moreover, a US designation would probably weaken MB leaders’ arguments against violence and provide ISIS and al-Qa’ida additional grist for propaganda to win followers and support, particularly for attacks against U.S. interests.”
The CIA declined to comment, and the White House did not respond to a request for comment. But the document threatens to pit the agency against a president who has dismissed its intelligence assessments, and angered many in the intelligence community when he appeared before the agency’s Memorial Wall and exaggerated the size of the crowd at his inaugural address.
And it would seem to put the agency’s analysts at odds with its new director, Mike Pompeo, who co-sponsored a bill to ban the Brotherhood as a member of Congress and once warned in a radio appearance that Islamist groups were infiltrating the United States. “There are organizations and networks here in the United States tied to radical Islam in deep and fundamental ways,” Pompeo told host Frank Gaffney, who heads the Center for Security Policy and often promotes a conspiratorial view of Muslims. “They’re not just in places like Libya and Syria and Iraq, but in places like Coldwater, Kansas, and small towns all throughout America.”
Even before President Donald Trump took office, outside groups like Gaffney’s and some members of Congress had been pressuring his team to make the designation, a process that usually takes months and requires teams of analysts sifting through reams of intelligence reports to determine whether an organization fits the legal definition of a terrorist organization.
In January, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) re-introduced twin bills that would require the State Department to inform Congress “whether the Muslim Brotherhood meets the criteria for designation as a foreign terrorist organization” and, if not, explain why not. Days before Trump’s inauguration, an anti-Islamist coalition called “Faith Leaders for America” held a press event in which speakers repeatedly urged the incoming president to make the designation.
Since then, news outlets have tracked a growing debate within the administration over whether Trump should pull the trigger, possibly in the form of an executive order directing the State Department to evaluate whether the Brotherhood meets the necessary legal standard. A State Department source said the White House had contacted the department’s legal officials, as well as multiple bureaus, about what would be involved. But momentum seems to have stalled in recent days.
“Basically, they wanted to know if an executive order would be enough or if there was a process that had to be followed,” the source said. “It received a great deal of pushback, and it looks like the White House team actually looked at the legal requirements to designate a foreign terrorist organization. It’s still lurking, but I haven’t heard it’s on the front burner again.”
Former U.S. officials and experts on the Muslim Brotherhood are highly skeptical that the Trump administration could meet that bar, and scoff at the basic wisdom of the idea.
“I think it would be an incredibly stupid thing to do,” said Daniel Benjamin, who served as the State Department’s coordinator for counterterrorism under Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “The top reason being that it’s not a terrorist group.”
Designating the group would also pose serious complications for U.S. diplomacy throughout the Middle East. The Muslim Brotherhood has loosely affiliated branches throughout the Arab world, and some of them even hold positions of power in certain countries. The head of the government of Morocco, for instance, is a member of a party aligned with the Brotherhood. Ennahdha, a popular Islamist party affiliated with the Brotherhood, is part of the ruling coalition in Tunisia. Depending on how a designation was structured, “We could not meet with the Tunisian government going forward,” said Tom Malinowski, who recently stepped down as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights, and labor in the Obama administration. Malinowski also noted that many of the local councils the United States works with in Syria have ties to the Brotherhood, long one of the only sources of organized opposition to the rule of President Bashar Assad. And a designation could damage relations with Turkey, a NATO ally whose volatile Islamist president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, is an avid backer of Brotherhood offshoots around the region.
“It’s not well thought through,” said Will McCants, a former State Department senior adviser for countering violent extremism, who called designating the Brotherhood a “fringe idea that I guess has now made its way into the mainstream.”
Trump, despite otherwise evincing little interest in foreign affairs before launching his presidential bid, has been critical of the Brotherhood in the past, blasting then-President Barack Obama repeatedly in 2012 for hosting Egyptian president and Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi, who was elected after mass protests ousted longtime strongman Hosni Mubarak.
“@BarackObama’s budget funds the ‘Arab Spring’ with $800B and the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt $1.3B in military aid. He loves radical Islam,” Trump tweeted in February 2012. “Obama now wants to give another $450M to the Muslim Brotherhood. Money we don’t have going to people that hate us. Moronic,” he wrote later in October, one of two dozen tweets on the subject over the course of 2012 and 2013.
Morsi was ousted amid a fresh wave of demonstrations backed by the Egyptian military, which helped installed one of its own, Gen. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, as the country’s new president. Trump and Sisi have hit it off: The Egyptian strongman was the first foreign leader to congratulate Trump on his election, which came weeks after the two men met in New York on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. “There was good chemistry there,” Trump said after their encounter. “He’s a fantastic guy.” Trump also hailed Sisi, who presided over a brutal crackdown on the Brotherhood that killed or injured thousands, for consolidating power after Morsi’s tumultuous short tenure. “He took control of Egypt,” Trump gushed. “And he really took control of it.”
Egypt outlawed the Brotherhood in December 2013, labeling it a terrorist organization, as did other U.S. allies in the region, including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Those governments have been pressing the United States for years to make a similar designation, but found little traction until Trump’s victory ushered into office a group of advisers who see Islamist groups like the Brotherhood as a threat to Western civilization itself, and make little distinction between mere ideologues and violent extremists.
National security adviser Michael Flynn, for instance, has described Islam itself as a “cancer” and a “political ideology” rather than a religion. “Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL,” he once wrote on Twitter (his account has since been deleted).
Steve Bannon, the president’s chief strategist and the former head of Breitbart News, has often promoted anti-Muslim activists such as Gaffney, who has accused former President Barack Obama of being a secret Muslim and is one of the leading advocates for cracking down on alleged Brotherhood front groups inside the United States. According to The Washington Post, a 2007 summary of one of Bannon’s film projects described the Brotherhood as “the foundation of modern terrorism.”
Even Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, in his confirmation hearing, associated the Brotherhood with more radical groups like al Qaeda and “certain elements within Iran,” likely an allusion to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Some former officials fear that autocratic Arab states like Egypt could use a terrorist designation to lure the United States into endorsing violent crackdowns on their internal critics. “If there’s no pushback from leadership, I worry that we could be manipulated by countries that are just trying to enlist us in their campaigns against their political opponents,” Malinowski said.
Benjamin thinks there’s little chance that career officials inside the Treasury and State Departments would find that the Brotherhood, whose leadership in Egypt renounced violence in the 1970s, is a terrorist group. “Professionals will look at it and say this doesn’t meet our criteria,” Benjamin said. “With the system as it is currently configured, this would not pass muster.”
One problem is that it’s hard to define what the Brotherhood is, given its loose structure and culture of secrecy. “What you have is a disparate network of groups that may or may not meet criteria,” said Jonathan Schanzer, a former Treasury Department analyst now with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Schanzer thinks the Muslim Brotherhood’s “mothership” in Egypt wouldn’t qualify, but other parts of the movement, such as the Islah party in Yemen, might if the Trump administration took a more targeted approach. Otherwise, “it’s trying to hit a grand slam and it’s probably going to lead to a strikeout,” he said.
“Ideologically I’d say it’s closest to being a hate group,” said Eric Trager, an analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who believes thest Virginia – opposed the Alabama senator.
“As attorney general, Senator Sessions will serve as the people’s lawyer, not the president’s lawyer,” Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) said. “I’m worried he will not be an independent voice from the president as the job requires, and will instead defend all pieces of the president’s agenda without question – whether constitutional or not.” Sessions was a close Trump ally during the presidential campaign and was his first endorser from the Senate.
And then there was the Warren episode.
On Tuesday, the Massachusetts senator had been reading a letter from Coretta Scott King, the widow of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., that she sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1986. One of King’s criticisms that Warren repeated on the floor – that Sessions would “chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens” – was deemed a violation of Senate rules silenced, and Warren was forced to be silent for the rest of the debate.
The chaos that ensued only served to elevate Warren’s initial cause: Shine a light on Sessions’ record and try to defeat him at all costs.
“I just wanted to read the letter, and I want everybody to read the letter,” Warren said in an interview with POLITICO on Wednesday. “That’s how I see it.
Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Trump administration officials pushing to designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization face at least one significant obstacle: analysts at the Central Intelligence Agency.
CIA experts have warned that so labeling the decades-old Islamist group “may fuel extremism” and damage relations with America’s allies, according to a summary of a finished intelligence report for the intelligence community and policymakers that was shared with POLITICO by a U.S. official.
The document, published internally on January 31, notes that the Brotherhood — which boasts millions of followers around the Arab world — has “rejected violence as a matter of official policy and opposed al-Qa’ida and ISIS.”
It acknowledges that “a minority of MB [Muslim Brotherhood] members have engaged in violence, most often in response to harsh regime repression, perceived foreign occupation, or civil conflicts.” Noting that there are branches of the group in countries such as Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco and Tunisia, it cautions that some of America’s allies in the region “probably worry that such a step could destabilize their internal politics, feed extremist narratives, and anger Muslims worldwide.”
“MB groups enjoy widespread support across the Near East-North Africa region and many Arabs and Muslims worldwide would view an MB designation as an affront to their core religious and societal values,” the document continues. “Moreover, a US designation would probably weaken MB leaders’ arguments against violence and provide ISIS and al-Qa’ida additional grist for propaganda to win followers and support, particularly for attacks against U.S. interests.”
The CIA declined to comment, and the White House did not respond to a request for comment. But the document threatens to pit the agency against a president who has dismissed its intelligence assessments, and angered many in the intelligence community when he appeared before the agency’s Memorial Wall and exaggerated the size of the crowd at his inaugural address.
And it would seem to put the agency’s analysts at odds with its new director, Mike Pompeo, who co-sponsored a bill to ban the Brotherhood as a member of Congress and once warned in a radio appearance that Islamist groups were infiltrating the United States. “There are organizations and networks here in the United States tied to radical Islam in deep and fundamental ways,” Pompeo told host Frank Gaffney, who heads the Center for Security Policy and often promotes a conspiratorial view of Muslims. “They’re not just in places like Libya and Syria and Iraq, but in places like Coldwater, Kansas, and small towns all throughout America.”
Even before President Donald Trump took office, outside groups like Gaffney’s and some members of Congress had been pressuring his team to make the designation, a process that usually takes months and requires teams of analysts sifting through reams of intelligence reports to determine whether an organization fits the legal definition of a terrorist organization.
In January, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) re-introduced twin bills that would require the State Department to inform Congress “whether the Muslim Brotherhood meets the criteria for designation as a foreign terrorist organization” and, if not, explain why not. Days before Trump’s inauguration, an anti-Islamist coalition called “Faith Leaders for America” held a press event in which speakers repeatedly urged the incoming president to make the designation.
Since then, news outlets have tracked a growing debate within the administration over whether Trump should pull the trigger, possibly in the form of an executive order directing the State Department to evaluate whether the Brotherhood meets the necessary legal standard. A State Department source said the White House had contacted the department’s legal officials, as well as multiple bureaus, about what would be involved. But momentum seems to have stalled in recent days.
“Basically, they wanted to know if an executive order would be enough or if there was a process that had to be followed,” the source said. “It received a great deal of pushback, and it looks like the White House team actually looked at the legal requirements to designate a foreign terrorist organization. It’s still lurking, but I haven’t heard it’s on the front burner again.”
Former U.S. officials and experts on the Muslim Brotherhood are highly skeptical that the Trump administration could meet that bar, and scoff at the basic wisdom of the idea.
“I think it would be an incredibly stupid thing to do,” said Daniel Benjamin, who served as the State Department’s coordinator for counterterrorism under Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “The top reason being that it’s not a terrorist group.”
Designating the group would also pose serious complications for U.S. diplomacy throughout the Middle East. The Muslim Brotherhood has loosely affiliated branches throughout the Arab world, and some of them even hold positions of power in certain countries. The head of the government of Morocco, for instance, is a member of a party aligned with the Brotherhood. Ennahdha, a popular Islamist party affiliated with the Brotherhood, is part of the ruling coalition in Tunisia. Depending on how a designation was structured, “We could not meet with the Tunisian government going forward,” said Tom Malinowski, who recently stepped down as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights, and labor in the Obama administration. Malinowski also noted that many of the local councils the United States works with in Syria have ties to the Brotherhood, long one of the only sources of organized opposition to the rule of President Bashar Assad. And a designation could damage relations with Turkey, a NATO ally whose volatile Islamist president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, is an avid backer of Brotherhood offshoots around the region.
“It’s not well thought through,” said Will McCants, a former State Department senior adviser for countering violent extremism, who called designating the Brotherhood a “fringe idea that I guess has now made its way into the mainstream.”
Trump, despite otherwise evincing little interest in foreign affairs before launching his presidential bid, has been critical of the Brotherhood in the past, blasting then-President Barack Obama repeatedly in 2012 for hosting Egyptian president and Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi, who was elected after mass protests ousted longtime strongman Hosni Mubarak.
“@BarackObama’s budget funds the ‘Arab Spring’ with $800B and the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt $1.3B in military aid. He loves radical Islam,” Trump tweeted in February 2012. “Obama now wants to give another $450M to the Muslim Brotherhood. Money we don’t have going to people that hate us. Moronic,” he wrote later in October, one of two dozen tweets on the subject over the course of 2012 and 2013.
Morsi was ousted amid a fresh wave of demonstrations backed by the Egyptian military, which helped installed one of its own, Gen. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, as the country’s new president. Trump and Sisi have hit it off: The Egyptian strongman was the first foreign leader to congratulate Trump on his election, which came weeks after the two men met in New York on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. “There was good chemistry there,” Trump said after their encounter. “He’s a fantastic guy.” Trump also hailed Sisi, who presided over a brutal crackdown on the Brotherhood that killed or injured thousands, for consolidating power after Morsi’s tumultuous short tenure. “He took control of Egypt,” Trump gushed. “And he really took control of it.”
Egypt outlawed the Brotherhood in December 2013, labeling it a terrorist organization, as did other U.S. allies in the region, including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Those governments have been pressing the United States for years to make a similar designation, but found little traction until Trump’s victory ushered into office a group of advisers who see Islamist groups like the Brotherhood as a threat to Western civilization itself, and make little distinction between mere ideologues and violent extremists.
National security adviser Michael Flynn, for instance, has described Islam itself as a “cancer” and a “political ideology” rather than a religion. “Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL,” he once wrote on Twitter (his account has since been deleted).
Steve Bannon, the president’s chief strategist and the former head of Breitbart News, has often promoted anti-Muslim activists such as Gaffney, who has accused former President Barack Obama of being a secret Muslim and is one of the leading advocates for cracking down on alleged Brotherhood front groups inside the United States. According to The Washington Post, a 2007 summary of one of Bannon’s film projects described the Brotherhood as “the foundation of modern terrorism.”
Even Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, in his confirmation hearing, associated the Brotherhood with more radical groups like al Qaeda and “certain elements within Iran,” likely an allusion to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Some former officials fear that autocratic Arab states like Egypt could use a terrorist designation to lure the United States into endorsing violent crackdowns on their internal critics. “If there’s no pushback from leadership, I worry that we could be manipulated by countries that are just trying to enlist us in their campaigns against their political opponents,” Malinowski said.
Benjamin thinks there’s little chance that career officials inside the Treasury and State Departments would find that the Brotherhood, whose leadership in Egypt renounced violence in the 1970s, is a terrorist group. “Professionals will look at it and say this doesn’t meet our criteria,” Benjamin said. “With the system as it is currently configured, this would not pass muster.”
One problem is that it’s hard to define what the Brotherhood is, given its loose structure and culture of secrecy. “What you have is a disparate network of groups that may or may not meet criteria,” said Jonathan Schanzer, a former Treasury Department analyst now with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Schanzer thinks the Muslim Brotherhood’s “mothership” in Egypt wouldn’t qualify, but other parts of the movement, such as the Islah party in Yemen, might if the Trump administration took a more targeted approach. Otherwise, “it’s trying to hit a grand slam and it’s probably going to lead to a strikeout,” he said.
“Ideologically I’d say it’s closest to being a hate group,” said Eric Trager, an analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who believes the Trump administration is right to be concerned about the Brotherhood. “These are not good guys. These are not moderate politicians. They support, on an ideological level, terrorism. They cooperate with terrorists. They give a platform for terrorists. But there is not sufficient evidence to show they send their own members to commit terrorism, and that is the standard for a designation.”
Still, advocacy groups in the United States are worried they might be singled out or accused of having ties to the Brotherhood or other foreign Islamist groups, and are preparing to mount aggressive defenses if necessary. They note that the Cruz/Diaz-Balart legislation, like the earlier bill sponsored by Pompeo, explicitly mentions the Council on American-Islamic Relations, which Gaffney and others have accused of being a Brotherhood front (a charge the group denies).
“American Muslim organizations have been under scrutiny for a long time. And it’s important to emphasize that neither the Bush nor the Obama administration gave into what is a bigoted effort by people who were once in the fringe,” said Hina Shamsi, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union who herself was recently detained and questioned by Customs and Border Patrol while returning from a trip abroad.
“The deep concern here is that designation of the Muslim Brotherhood, whatever that is and how it is defined (which is a complicated question in itself), could result in government attacks on American Muslim civil society by opening the doors to the use of over-broad and unfair legal regimes relating to designation and designated entities,” Shamsi said.
Robert McCaw, government affairs director at CAIR, said that groups like his were the real target of the anti-Brotherhood campaign. “The U.S. Islamophobia network and its political allies are pushing this designation to create a new era of religious McCarthyism where being an American Muslim or an advocacy organization pushing back against anti-Muslim rhetoric is enough to disqualify you from civic participation,” McCaw said.
Even some of the Brotherhood’s biggest detractors, however, aren’t too worried about its alleged influence inside the United States, and urge the Trump administration to focus on more realistic threats.
“The Muslim Brotherhood could not control Egypt — where it is from, where it has existed for over 80 years, and where it could not keep control for more than a year,” said Trager. “It sure as hell is not going to take over America.”
The greatest danger, warns Benjamin, is that a move to treat the Brotherhood the same as groups that actually do engage in terrorism could push some Muslims into the arms of more radical extremists: “We don’t need more enemies.”
Political divisions in Europe aren’t between left and right but “between populists and globalists,” French far-right leader Marine Le Pen told the BBC in an interview to be broadcast Thursday. “I am on the side of patriotism. And many European leaders have been on the side of globalization.”
The head of the National Front was speaking about her vision for the future of Europe after elections this year in France, Germany and the Netherlands and in the wake of the U.K.’s vote to leave the European Union. She was speaking to the BBC for a documentary called “After Brexit: The Battle For Europe.”
Asked if leaving the eurozone, as Le Pen wants, would mean the end of the EU single currency, she said: “Maybe, and so what? The euro isn’t a currency, it’s a political weapon. The euro is a knife which the EU puts into the backs of the people to force them to go where they don’t want to go.”
Le Pen also backed a French exit from the EU — a so-called ‘Frexit’ — if the EU doesn’t transfer powers back to Paris. “Either the EU gives French people back their territorial sovereignty, borders, control over their economy, control over their currency and the superiority of their laws, or I will say to the French people that we should leave the EU.”
“Either it [the EU] radically and deeply Trump administration is right to be concerned about the Brotherhood. “These are not good guys. These are not moderate politicians. They support, on an ideological level, terrorism. They cooperate with terrorists. They give a platform for terrorists. But there is not sufficient evidence to show they send their own members to commit terrorism, and that is the standard for a designation.”
Still, advocacy groups in the United States are worried they might be singled out or accused of having ties to the Brotherhood or other foreign Islamist groups, and are preparing to mount aggressive defenses if necessary. They note that the Cruz/Diaz-Balart legislation, like the earlier bill sponsored by Pompeo, explicitly mentions the Council on American-Islamic Relations, which Gaffney and others have accused of being a Brotherhood front (a charge the group denies).
“American Muslim organizations have been under scrutiny for a long time. And it’s important to emphasize that neither the Bush nor the Obama administration gave into what is a bigoted effort by people who were once in the fringe,” said Hina Shamsi, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union who herself was recently detained and questioned by Customs and Border Patrol while returning from a trip abroad.
“The deep concern here is that designation of the Muslim Brotherhood, whatever that is and how it is defined (which is a complicated question in itself), could result in government attacks on American Muslim civil society by opening the doors to the use of over-broad and unfair legal regimes relating to designation and designated entities,” Shamsi said.
Robert McCaw, government affairs director at CAIR, said that groups like his were the real target of the anti-Brotherhood campaign. “The U.S. Islamophobia network and its political allies are pushing this designation to create a new era of religious McCarthyism where being an American Muslim or an advocacy organization pushing back against anti-Muslim rhetoric is enough to disqualify you from civic participation,” McCaw said.
Even some of the Brotherhood’s biggest detractors, however, aren’t too worried about its alleged influence inside the United States, and urge the Trump administration to focus on more realistic threats.
“The Muslim Brotherhood could not control Egypt — where it is from, where it has existed for over 80 years, and where it could not keep control for more than a year,” said Trager. “It sure as hell is not going to take over America.”
The greatest danger, warns Benjamin, is that a move to treat the Brotherhood the same as groups that actually do engage in terrorism could push some Muslims into the arms of more radical extremists: “We don’t need more enemies.”
Political divisions in Europe aren’t between left and right but “between populists and globalists,” French far-right leader Marine Le Pen told the BBC in an interview to be broadcast Thursday. “I am on the side of patriotism. And many European leaders have been on the side of globalization.”
The head of the National Front was speaking about her vision for the future of Europe after elections this year in France, Germany and the Netherlands and in the wake of the U.K.’s vote to leave the European Union. She was speaking to the BBC for a documentary called “After Brexit: The Battle For Europe.”
Asked if leaving the eurozone, as Le Pen wants, would mean the end of the EU single currency, she said: “Maybe, and so what? The euro isn’t a currency, it’s a political weapon. The euro is a knife which the EU puts into the backs of the people to force them to go where they don’t want to go.”
Le Pen also backed a French exit from the EU — a so-called ‘Frexit’ — if the EU doesn’t transfer powers back to Paris. “Either the EU gives French people back their territorial sovereignty, borders, control over their economy, control over their currency and the superiority of their laws, or I will say to the French people that we should leave the EU.”
“Either it [the EU] radically and deeply changes, and it abandons its authoritarian character, or it will die.”
Also interviewed for the BBC program was Beatrix von Storch, an MEP and senior member of the far-right Alternative for Germany.
Asked if she saw her party as part of a bigger movement in Europe, Von Storch said yes. “The voices are different. But I think there’s a basic line within all those parties which are now growing in several states, stating that we don’t want to give up our sovereignty.”
She added that if the EU “crumbles because the people want it to crumble then … it should crumble.”
LONDON — British MPs on Wednesday voted overwhelmingly to authorize the government to trigger Article 50 — the formal notification of the country’s intention to leave the EU after 44 years of membership.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s Article 50 bill, which she was forced to bring before parliament by a Supreme Court ruling last month, was backed by 494 MPs, with 122 voting against.
The vote completes the bill’s passage through the House of Commons. It will now go to the House of Lords and it’s expected to be ratified by early March, in time for May’s self-imposed deadline for triggering Article 50 by the end of that month.
“The Lords will face an overwhelming public call to be abolished if they now try and frustrate this bill — they must get on and deliver the will of the British people,” said a government official on condition of anonymity.
With the backing of the ruling Conservative party and the instruction from the Labour leadership that their MPs back the bill, the outcome of the vote was a foregone conclusion. However, 52 Labour MPs defied the party whip to vote against Article 50 — five more than rebelled on the bill’s second reading at an earlier stage of the parliamentary process last week.
The Scottish National Party, the Liberal Democrats, Wales’ Plaid Cymru, Northern Ireland’s Social Democratic and Labour Party, Green MP Caroline Lucas and lone Tory rebel Kenneth Clarke also voted against it.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was left damaged by the resignation of his highly-regarded Shadow Business Secretary Clive Lewis, who confirmed at the eleventh hour that he would not be following the party line.
Lewis, who represents the strongly Remain-supporting Norwich South constituency, said he could not “in all good conscience vote for something I believe will ultimately harm the city I have the honor to represent, love and call home.”
After a marathon round of voting on amendments, MPs finally came to the bill itself at 8:15 p.m. As lawmakers made their way into the chamber, SNP MPs struck up a chorus of Beethoven’s Ode to Joy — the anthem of the European Union — until Deputy Speaker of the House Lindsay Hoyle instructed them to stop.
All amendments, laid by opposition parties in an attempt to steer the government’s negotiating strategy, were defeated. The Conservative leadership had instructed its MPs to vote down all amendments to give May a free hand in the negotiations and to enable the bill to pass without delay.
David Jones, the Brexit minister who led for the government during the parliamentary debate, insisted that the issues raised by the amendments could be debated at a later state in the Brexit process. “These amendments are not for this bill, instead they are for the many future debates that will take place,” he told MPs.
“Our intention, as set out in the white paper, is to leave the EU,” he said. “It would also be wrong to set unilateral demands before negotiations have even begun.”
An amendment seeking to guarantee the continued residency rights of EU citizens living in the U.K. was not backed by the government, despite the principle having widespread support across the House of Commons.
Meanwhile, 19 Labour MPs, including five members of Corbyn’s shadow frontbench team, joined with the Liberal Democrats to vote for an amendment calling for a second referendum to ratify the terms of the Brexit deal.
Labour MPs had been instructed to abstain on the vote and in total only 33  changes, and it abandons its authoritarian character, or it will die.”
Also interviewed for the BBC program was Beatrix von Storch, an MEP and senior member of the far-right Alternative for Germany.
Asked if she saw her party as part of a bigger movement in Europe, Von Storch said yes. “The voices are different. But I think there’s a basic line within all those parties which are now growing in several states, stating that we don’t want to give up our sovereignty.”
She added that if the EU “crumbles because the people want it to crumble then … it should crumble.”
LONDON — British MPs on Wednesday voted overwhelmingly to authorize the government to trigger Article 50 — the formal notification of the country’s intention to leave the EU after 44 years of membership.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s Article 50 bill, which she was forced to bring before parliament by a Supreme Court ruling last month, was backed by 494 MPs, with 122 voting against.
The vote completes the bill’s passage through the House of Commons. It will now go to the House of Lords and it’s expected to be ratified by early March, in time for May’s self-imposed deadline for triggering Article 50 by the end of that month.
“The Lords will face an overwhelming public call to be abolished if they now try and frustrate this bill — they must get on and deliver the will of the British people,” said a government official on condition of anonymity.
With the backing of the ruling Conservative party and the instruction from the Labour leadership that their MPs back the bill, the outcome of the vote was a foregone conclusion. However, 52 Labour MPs defied the party whip to vote against Article 50 — five more than rebelled on the bill’s second reading at an earlier stage of the parliamentary process last week.
The Scottish National Party, the Liberal Democrats, Wales’ Plaid Cymru, Northern Ireland’s Social Democratic and Labour Party, Green MP Caroline Lucas and lone Tory rebel Kenneth Clarke also voted against it.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was left damaged by the resignation of his highly-regarded Shadow Business Secretary Clive Lewis, who confirmed at the eleventh hour that he would not be following the party line.
Lewis, who represents the strongly Remain-supporting Norwich South constituency, said he could not “in all good conscience vote for something I believe will ultimately harm the city I have the honor to represent, love and call home.”
After a marathon round of voting on amendments, MPs finally came to the bill itself at 8:15 p.m. As lawmakers made their way into the chamber, SNP MPs struck up a chorus of Beethoven’s Ode to Joy — the anthem of the European Union — until Deputy Speaker of the House Lindsay Hoyle instructed them to stop.
All amendments, laid by opposition parties in an attempt to steer the government’s negotiating strategy, were defeated. The Conservative leadership had instructed its MPs to vote down all amendments to give May a free hand in the negotiations and to enable the bill to pass without delay.
David Jones, the Brexit minister who led for the government during the parliamentary debate, insisted that the issues raised by the amendments could be debated at a later state in the Brexit process. “These amendments are not for this bill, instead they are for the many future debates that will take place,” he told MPs.
“Our intention, as set out in the white paper, is to leave the EU,” he said. “It would also be wrong to set unilateral demands before negotiations have even begun.”
An amendment seeking to guarantee the continued residency rights of EU citizens living in the U.K. was not backed by the government, despite the principle having widespread support across the House of Commons.
Meanwhile, 19 Labour MPs, including five members of Corbyn’s shadow frontbench team, joined with the Liberal Democrats to vote for an amendment calling for a second referendum to ratify the terms of the Brexit deal.
Labour MPs had been instructed to abstain on the vote and in total only 33 MPs backed it.
Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, who has sought to position his pro-EU party as the natural home for voters who backed Remain at the referendum, accused Labour of writing “a blank check” for May’s government.
“Labour tonight have lost the right to be called the official opposition,” he said. “History will judge them harshly for their failure to stand firm in defense of future generations of Britons who will suffer as a result.”
Horst Seehofer, Bavaria’s conservative prime minister, has indicated that he intends to run for a third term, Süddeutsche Zeitung reported Wednesday.
The 67-year-old, who is the leader of the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, has until now said that he would not continue after 2018, citing health concerns.
But while visiting a market in Bavaria Wednesday, Seehofer said: “If God gives me health, I will be here again.”
Seehofer, who has been the state’s leader since 2008, has become known as an opponent of Merkel’s policy on refugees.
His main opposition could be the state’s finance minister, Markus Söder, who is it believed will likely await the result of the federal election on September 24 before making a decision on the state premiership.
Seehofer also said he will visit Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow from March 16 to 18, adding that without Moscow many conflicts in the world “cannot be solved.”
He said also that he plans trips to China, the U.S. and Britain this year.
The French presidency will hold a top-level meeting soon to address concerns about possible Russian hacking, trolling and disinformation in the upcoming presidential election, the French weekly Le Canard Enchainé reported Wednesday.
“The level of concern is such that a meeting of the defense council at the Élysée has been scheduled on this subject,” the newspaper wrote in its Wednesday edition.
Le Canard Enchainé, which is known for its mix of investigative reporting and satirical writing, recently published allegations that François Fillon, the conservative candidate for president, hired his wife for a non-existent job. Penelope Fillon was allegedly paid more than €900,000 for work she didn’t carry out.
A defense council is a top-level meeting attended by the president, the prime minister as well as ministers for defense, interior and foreign affairs, finance and the budget. If confirmed, the meeting shows how seriously the French state is taking concerns about Russian hacking in the upcoming election, to be held in two rounds on April 23 and May 7.
Intelligence sources cited by Le Canard Enchainé said that Russia is covertly supporting the candidacy of Marine Le Pen, president of the far-right National Front party.
The disinformation is spread on social media, using algorithms to generate thousands of positive messages or “by revealing data and confidential emails belonging to her rivals,” the newspaper cited a member of the DGSE, France’s external security service, as saying.
The Élysée presidential palace did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Sébastien Pietrasanta, the socialist party’s point person on security affairs, said he was not aware of the meeting.
In January, Pietrasanta told POLITICO that France is at risk of being hacked during elections and that political parties are woefully under-prepared for such attacks.
A new European public prosecutor’s office with powers to combat corruption and fraud involving EU funds is closer to becoming reality, even though some countries — including Malta, which currently holds the presidency of the EU Council — won’t sign up to it.
The Council decided Tuesday to allow countries to move forward with the creation of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office, despite the lack of unanimous support.
If it gets the approval of at least nine governments and the European Parliament, the agency will be able to investigate and prosecute corruption and fraud involving EU funds in those countries, MPs backed it.
Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, who has sought to position his pro-EU party as the natural home for voters who backed Remain at the referendum, accused Labour of writing “a blank check” for May’s government.
“Labour tonight have lost the right to be called the official opposition,” he said. “History will judge them harshly for their failure to stand firm in defense of future generations of Britons who will suffer as a result.”
Horst Seehofer, Bavaria’s conservative prime minister, has indicated that he intends to run for a third term, Süddeutsche Zeitung reported Wednesday.
The 67-year-old, who is the leader of the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, has until now said that he would not continue after 2018, citing health concerns.
But while visiting a market in Bavaria Wednesday, Seehofer said: “If God gives me health, I will be here again.”
Seehofer, who has been the state’s leader since 2008, has become known as an opponent of Merkel’s policy on refugees.
His main opposition could be the state’s finance minister, Markus Söder, who is it believed will likely await the result of the federal election on September 24 before making a decision on the state premiership.
Seehofer also said he will visit Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow from March 16 to 18, adding that without Moscow many conflicts in the world “cannot be solved.”
He said also that he plans trips to China, the U.S. and Britain this year.
The French presidency will hold a top-level meeting soon to address concerns about possible Russian hacking, trolling and disinformation in the upcoming presidential election, the French weekly Le Canard Enchainé reported Wednesday.
“The level of concern is such that a meeting of the defense council at the Élysée has been scheduled on this subject,” the newspaper wrote in its Wednesday edition.
Le Canard Enchainé, which is known for its mix of investigative reporting and satirical writing, recently published allegations that François Fillon, the conservative candidate for president, hired his wife for a non-existent job. Penelope Fillon was allegedly paid more than €900,000 for work she didn’t carry out.
A defense council is a top-level meeting attended by the president, the prime minister as well as ministers for defense, interior and foreign affairs, finance and the budget. If confirmed, the meeting shows how seriously the French state is taking concerns about Russian hacking in the upcoming election, to be held in two rounds on April 23 and May 7.
Intelligence sources cited by Le Canard Enchainé said that Russia is covertly supporting the candidacy of Marine Le Pen, president of the far-right National Front party.
The disinformation is spread on social media, using algorithms to generate thousands of positive messages or “by revealing data and confidential emails belonging to her rivals,” the newspaper cited a member of the DGSE, France’s external security service, as saying.
The Élysée presidential palace did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Sébastien Pietrasanta, the socialist party’s point person on security affairs, said he was not aware of the meeting.
In January, Pietrasanta told POLITICO that France is at risk of being hacked during elections and that political parties are woefully under-prepared for such attacks.
A new European public prosecutor’s office with powers to combat corruption and fraud involving EU funds is closer to becoming reality, even though some countries — including Malta, which currently holds the presidency of the EU Council — won’t sign up to it.
The Council decided Tuesday to allow countries to move forward with the creation of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office, despite the lack of unanimous support.
If it gets the approval of at least nine governments and the European Parliament, the agency will be able to investigate and prosecute corruption and fraud involving EU funds in those countries, as well as serious cases of cross-border VAT fraud that cost the bloc at least €50 billion a year.
“This is not unanimity, but other member states will be able to join at any time,” said Justice Commissioner Věra Jourová, who confirmed that 19 countries are set to “establish quickly” the new agency.
Sweden, the Netherlands, Hungary and Poland have all expressed concerns about losing sovereignty to a new EU body. In December, Hungary’s Justice Minister László Trócsányi described it as an example of “the furor of integration” and said it was “not necessary.”
In contrast, some countries such as Italy say the new prosecutor doesn’t have enough powers, arguing it should be able to investigate and prosecute a far greater array of crimes.
Malta won’t join because of its concerns about the prosecutor’s mandate, though a spokeswoman for the country’s justice ministry said Wednesday that Malta would, in its Council presidency role, “act as an honest broker” for other countries who do want to take the project forward.
Shadow justice minister Jason Azzopardi said the Maltese government’s decision was “no surprise at all,” given what he described as the government’s “vested interest not to fight corruption or money-laundering.”
He was referring to revelations last year that a minister close to Prime Minister Joseph Muscat as well as Muscat’s chief of staff had opened secret offshore entities in Panama and New Zealand in order, the opposition alleges, to take kickbacks from privatization deals. Both have denied any wrongdoing.
Romanian Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu easily survived a no-confidence vote as anti-government protests over a proposed weakening of corruption laws continue to test his government, the AFP reported Wednesday.
The motion was expected to fail since Grindeanu’s party, the Social Democrats (PSD), enjoys a majority in parliament after winning national elections two months ago.
The government has become increasingly beleaguered since anti-government protests erupted more than a week ago against an emergency decree that decriminalized certain cases of corruption. Even though the decree was scrapped on Sunday, protesters still fill the streets demanding Grindeanu’s resignation.
The prime minister has refused to step down, citing his party’s recent election victory. “We have a duty to the people who gave us their trust during the election and to continue to govern,” he said.
French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has hit back with legal action against top EU officials who are trying to recover hundreds of thousands of euros from the National Front leader for misuse of funds.
The MEP’s civil lawsuit, a copy of which was obtained by POLITICO, targets the European Parliament’s most senior civil servant, Secretary-General Klaus Welle, the head of  the European Anti-Fraud Office (known by its French acronym, OLAF) Giovanni Kessler, and OLAF’s acting director of investigations, Beatriz Sanz Redrado. It seeks the symbolic compensation of €1 for “moral and material damages.”
It also accuses Martin Schulz, the former European Parliament president now campaigning to become German chancellor for the Social Democrats, of being behind what she repeatedly refers to as “fumus persecutionis” (persecution for political ends), implying that the proceedings against her in Brussels are motivated by political bias.
“Saying that Martin Schulz is a political rival of Madame Le Pen is stating the obvious,” reads the document.
Le Pen is a strong bet to get through the first round of the French presidential contest on April 23 — and could come first. However, she would find it tougher to win the second round in May, when moderates of all colors could join forces to back independent leftist Emmanuel Macron or conservative François Fillon and keep out Le Pen, whose policy ideas include leaving the euro and holding a referendum on EU membership.
The ferocity of her legal response is partly explained by the party’s financial difficulties. as well as serious cases of cross-border VAT fraud that cost the bloc at least €50 billion a year.
“This is not unanimity, but other member states will be able to join at any time,” said Justice Commissioner Věra Jourová, who confirmed that 19 countries are set to “establish quickly” the new agency.
Sweden, the Netherlands, Hungary and Poland have all expressed concerns about losing sovereignty to a new EU body. In December, Hungary’s Justice Minister László Trócsányi described it as an example of “the furor of integration” and said it was “not necessary.”
In contrast, some countries such as Italy say the new prosecutor doesn’t have enough powers, arguing it should be able to investigate and prosecute a far greater array of crimes.
Malta won’t join because of its concerns about the prosecutor’s mandate, though a spokeswoman for the country’s justice ministry said Wednesday that Malta would, in its Council presidency role, “act as an honest broker” for other countries who do want to take the project forward.
Shadow justice minister Jason Azzopardi said the Maltese government’s decision was “no surprise at all,” given what he described as the government’s “vested interest not to fight corruption or money-laundering.”
He was referring to revelations last year that a minister close to Prime Minister Joseph Muscat as well as Muscat’s chief of staff had opened secret offshore entities in Panama and New Zealand in order, the opposition alleges, to take kickbacks from privatization deals. Both have denied any wrongdoing.
Romanian Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu easily survived a no-confidence vote as anti-government protests over a proposed weakening of corruption laws continue to test his government, the AFP reported Wednesday.
The motion was expected to fail since Grindeanu’s party, the Social Democrats (PSD), enjoys a majority in parliament after winning national elections two months ago.
The government has become increasingly beleaguered since anti-government protests erupted more than a week ago against an emergency decree that decriminalized certain cases of corruption. Even though the decree was scrapped on Sunday, protesters still fill the streets demanding Grindeanu’s resignation.
The prime minister has refused to step down, citing his party’s recent election victory. “We have a duty to the people who gave us their trust during the election and to continue to govern,” he said.
French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has hit back with legal action against top EU officials who are trying to recover hundreds of thousands of euros from the National Front leader for misuse of funds.
The MEP’s civil lawsuit, a copy of which was obtained by POLITICO, targets the European Parliament’s most senior civil servant, Secretary-General Klaus Welle, the head of  the European Anti-Fraud Office (known by its French acronym, OLAF) Giovanni Kessler, and OLAF’s acting director of investigations, Beatriz Sanz Redrado. It seeks the symbolic compensation of €1 for “moral and material damages.”
It also accuses Martin Schulz, the former European Parliament president now campaigning to become German chancellor for the Social Democrats, of being behind what she repeatedly refers to as “fumus persecutionis” (persecution for political ends), implying that the proceedings against her in Brussels are motivated by political bias.
“Saying that Martin Schulz is a political rival of Madame Le Pen is stating the obvious,” reads the document.
Le Pen is a strong bet to get through the first round of the French presidential contest on April 23 — and could come first. However, she would find it tougher to win the second round in May, when moderates of all colors could join forces to back independent leftist Emmanuel Macron or conservative François Fillon and keep out Le Pen, whose policy ideas include leaving the euro and holding a referendum on EU membership.
The ferocity of her legal response is partly explained by the party’s financial difficulties. In the middle of a campaign that the party is struggling to fund, Le Pen will have more than half her MEP salary docked and lose her expenses. Three other MEPs from the Front face similar procedures, with Parliament seeking to recover more than half a million euros in total from Le Pen’s parliamentary group, Europe of Nations and Freedom. Marine Le Pen’s father Jean-Marie, who founded the party and is also an MEP but is now estranged from his daughter, was accused of misusing resources and ordered to repay €320,000 last June.
Le Pen accuses the Brussels institutions, in the person of Welle, Kessler and Sanz Redrado, of falsifying evidence to launch a politically motivated investigation against her, according to the lawsuit filed 15 days ago in a Brussels court. Le Pen’s lawyer Marcel Ceccaldi told POLITICO he plans to file another complaint in Luxembourg within the next couple of days. The existing 26-page document asks the court to charge the trio with using forgery to undermine the National Front and other Euroskeptic forces in the European Parliament.
It is no coincidence, it suggests, that the launch of the investigation into misuse on June 27, 2014 came “one month and two days after the electoral success” of the National Front in European elections. Her party took 25 percent of the French vote to become the biggest French party in the European Parliament, mirroring UKIP’s first place among British parties and giving the EU political establishment a Euroskeptic shock.
Le Pen’s lawsuit portrays this as evidence of a “joint plan carried out by [former] European Parliament’s President [Martin Schulz]” with the complicity of the EU anti-fraud office.
Investigators at OLAF accuse Le Pen of violating the European Parliament’s rules by having two assistants — Thierry Légier and Catherine Griset — carry out non-parliamentary work while on its payroll. She ignored a January 31 deadline to repay €339,000.
“The first aim [of the Front’s legal action] is to obtain a temporary suspension of the measures,” Ceccaldi told POLITICO. He said Welle committed fraud by improperly forwarding to OLAF a letter that had been sent to him by Ceccaldi. The fraud investigators then answered the letter addressed to Welle, the lawyer said. Furthermore, he argues, the institutions did not follow procedure correctly because they did not give Le Pen access to the conclusions of the OLAF report into her activities.
The European Parliament, asked by POLITICO to comment on the lawsuit, denied any political motivation in its investigation of National Front finances or its attempt to recover the money.
“Recovering owed money is a procedure which isn’t part of any attempt to discriminate against or persecute anyone or any political party,” the Parliament replied in a statement. An external investigation was carried out by “an independent organ” — OLAF — “on the basis of elements that are outside the Parliament’s responsibilities – and involving potential offenses to rules defining the social and financial rights of European lawmakers.”
“The administration proceeds in an identical way each time a rule has been potentially broken, whether it is a conclusion done by OLAF or after an assessment by internal audits that breaches to the law have been committed,” the statement added.
A spokesperson for the EU anti-fraud office said OLAF carried out the investigation “in full independence from other institutions or persons.”
“All the persons under investigation had the opportunity to comment on the facts concerning them, including Mrs. Le Pen,” said the spokesperson. “OLAF has therefore fully complied with the procedural safeguards and the related rights of these persons.”
The anti-fraud office has submitted its report to public prosecutors in Paris who are carrying out a related investigation into the National Front over the alleged misuse of assistants in the European Parliament.
Nicholas Vinocur and Maïa de La Baume contributed to this article.
The end is in sight for Theresa MaIn the middle of a campaign that the party is struggling to fund, Le Pen will have more than half her MEP salary docked and lose her expenses. Three other MEPs from the Front face similar procedures, with Parliament seeking to recover more than half a million euros in total from Le Pen’s parliamentary group, Europe of Nations and Freedom. Marine Le Pen’s father Jean-Marie, who founded the party and is also an MEP but is now estranged from his daughter, was accused of misusing resources and ordered to repay €320,000 last June.
Le Pen accuses the Brussels institutions, in the person of Welle, Kessler and Sanz Redrado, of falsifying evidence to launch a politically motivated investigation against her, according to the lawsuit filed 15 days ago in a Brussels court. Le Pen’s lawyer Marcel Ceccaldi told POLITICO he plans to file another complaint in Luxembourg within the next couple of days. The existing 26-page document asks the court to charge the trio with using forgery to undermine the National Front and other Euroskeptic forces in the European Parliament.
It is no coincidence, it suggests, that the launch of the investigation into misuse on June 27, 2014 came “one month and two days after the electoral success” of the National Front in European elections. Her party took 25 percent of the French vote to become the biggest French party in the European Parliament, mirroring UKIP’s first place among British parties and giving the EU political establishment a Euroskeptic shock.
Le Pen’s lawsuit portrays this as evidence of a “joint plan carried out by [former] European Parliament’s President [Martin Schulz]” with the complicity of the EU anti-fraud office.
Investigators at OLAF accuse Le Pen of violating the European Parliament’s rules by having two assistants — Thierry Légier and Catherine Griset — carry out non-parliamentary work while on its payroll. She ignored a January 31 deadline to repay €339,000.
“The first aim [of the Front’s legal action] is to obtain a temporary suspension of the measures,” Ceccaldi told POLITICO. He said Welle committed fraud by improperly forwarding to OLAF a letter that had been sent to him by Ceccaldi. The fraud investigators then answered the letter addressed to Welle, the lawyer said. Furthermore, he argues, the institutions did not follow procedure correctly because they did not give Le Pen access to the conclusions of the OLAF report into her activities.
The European Parliament, asked by POLITICO to comment on the lawsuit, denied any political motivation in its investigation of National Front finances or its attempt to recover the money.
“Recovering owed money is a procedure which isn’t part of any attempt to discriminate against or persecute anyone or any political party,” the Parliament replied in a statement. An external investigation was carried out by “an independent organ” — OLAF — “on the basis of elements that are outside the Parliament’s responsibilities – and involving potential offenses to rules defining the social and financial rights of European lawmakers.”
“The administration proceeds in an identical way each time a rule has been potentially broken, whether it is a conclusion done by OLAF or after an assessment by internal audits that breaches to the law have been committed,” the statement added.
A spokesperson for the EU anti-fraud office said OLAF carried out the investigation “in full independence from other institutions or persons.”
“All the persons under investigation had the opportunity to comment on the facts concerning them, including Mrs. Le Pen,” said the spokesperson. “OLAF has therefore fully complied with the procedural safeguards and the related rights of these persons.”
The anti-fraud office has submitted its report to public prosecutors in Paris who are carrying out a related investigation into the National Front over the alleged misuse of assistants in the European Parliament.
Nicholas Vinocur and Maïa de La Baume contributed to this article.
The end is in sight for Theresa May’s Article 50 bill.
Tonight, MPs will vote on whether to give her authority to notify the EU of the U.K.’s intention to leave. While the outcome is a foregone conclusion — it will pass overwhelmingly — it’s still a big moment and will be feted by Conservative Euroskeptics as a little piece of history.
Grandstanding aside, the bill’s smooth passage through the House of Commons is a small but welcome tactical victory for May. Barring an unlikely, last minute government defeat on one of this afternoon’s amendments, the bill should leave the Commons “clean” and unamended.
That is likely to take the wind out of the sails of peers in the House of Lords, who will get their chance to amend and vote on the bill later this month, with the final vote expected early in March. The unelected Lords will feel under pressure not to amend a clean bill.
May will be gratified. She has made enough concessions and commitments that MPs will be involved in the Brexit process to fend off a rebellion. Bear in mind that the vast majority of MPs backed Remain at the referendum last June. The imperative not to vote against “the will of the people” aside, it took political skill to bring the House of Commons to a point where it is waving through Article 50 with minimum fuss.
With the parliamentary drama almost over, May’s eyes can lift to the rocky road ahead.
At her weekly Prime Minister’s Questions session this afternoon, her opponents lined up to point out the storms on the horizon. The Scottish National Party’s leader in Westminster Angus Robertson reminded her the Scottish parliament has just voted (symbolically, as it has no veto) against Article 50. Labour’s Owen Smith asked whether she agreed with the World Trade Organization’s assessment that the U.K. leaving the EU and relying on WTO rules would cost £9 billion in lost trade. She didn’t contradict the figure.
The U.K. would get “the best possible deal in trading with and operating within the EU single market,” she said. “I believe that’s possible.”
She knows, however, that while it was within her gift to get her vision of Brexit through parliament, Brussels is a far trickier proposition.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
François Bayrou, the leader of the French centrist Democratic Movement, on Wednesday said François Fillon, the conservative candidate in the presidential election, had “no alternative” but to withdraw from the race.
According to local media, Bayrou — who has yet to declare his own presidential bid — said he would take “his responsibilities” if he were to face the same allegations.
“Political accountability is a responsibility that should normally be protected from any other interests,” Bayrou said, adding it had never before happened that a candidate running for the highest office in France was under “so much influence of the power of money.”
Fillon has come under fire after media reported his wife and two of his children received nearly €1 million in taxpayers’ money for work they allegedly did not do. He insisted he had acted legally and vowed to stay in the race, the first round of which is scheduled for April 23.
An opinion poll published last week suggested that two-thirds of French voters believe Fillon should withdraw his election bid.
Alexei Navalny, a critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was found guilty of embezzlement Wednesday, the AP reported. The verdict bars him from running in Russia’s presidential election in 2018.
He was given a five-year suspended sentence, as demanded by prosecutors. Navalny maintains that the charges were politically motivated.
As the guilty verdict was read out, Navalny tweeted pictures of the earlier verdict, which he stated were “copy-pasted 100 percent.”
Navalny came to prominence in 2008 when he began writing about high-level corruption in Putin’s close circles, and subsequently gained a reputation as an opposition activist. He announced last year he would run in the 2018 elections.
Navalny had been convicted at an earlier hearing, but the European Court of Human Rights overturned the verdict in 2013, stating that he did not receive a fair trial.
y’s Article 50 bill.
Tonight, MPs will vote on whether to give her authority to notify the EU of the U.K.’s intention to leave. While the outcome is a foregone conclusion — it will pass overwhelmingly — it’s still a big moment and will be feted by Conservative Euroskeptics as a little piece of history.
Grandstanding aside, the bill’s smooth passage through the House of Commons is a small but welcome tactical victory for May. Barring an unlikely, last minute government defeat on one of this afternoon’s amendments, the bill should leave the Commons “clean” and unamended.
That is likely to take the wind out of the sails of peers in the House of Lords, who will get their chance to amend and vote on the bill later this month, with the final vote expected early in March. The unelected Lords will feel under pressure not to amend a clean bill.
May will be gratified. She has made enough concessions and commitments that MPs will be involved in the Brexit process to fend off a rebellion. Bear in mind that the vast majority of MPs backed Remain at the referendum last June. The imperative not to vote against “the will of the people” aside, it took political skill to bring the House of Commons to a point where it is waving through Article 50 with minimum fuss.
With the parliamentary drama almost over, May’s eyes can lift to the rocky road ahead.
At her weekly Prime Minister’s Questions session this afternoon, her opponents lined up to point out the storms on the horizon. The Scottish National Party’s leader in Westminster Angus Robertson reminded her the Scottish parliament has just voted (symbolically, as it has no veto) against Article 50. Labour’s Owen Smith asked whether she agreed with the World Trade Organization’s assessment that the U.K. leaving the EU and relying on WTO rules would cost £9 billion in lost trade. She didn’t contradict the figure.
The U.K. would get “the best possible deal in trading with and operating within the EU single market,” she said. “I believe that’s possible.”
She knows, however, that while it was within her gift to get her vision of Brexit through parliament, Brussels is a far trickier proposition.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
François Bayrou, the leader of the French centrist Democratic Movement, on Wednesday said François Fillon, the conservative candidate in the presidential election, had “no alternative” but to withdraw from the race.
According to local media, Bayrou — who has yet to declare his own presidential bid — said he would take “his responsibilities” if he were to face the same allegations.
“Political accountability is a responsibility that should normally be protected from any other interests,” Bayrou said, adding it had never before happened that a candidate running for the highest office in France was under “so much influence of the power of money.”
Fillon has come under fire after media reported his wife and two of his children received nearly €1 million in taxpayers’ money for work they allegedly did not do. He insisted he had acted legally and vowed to stay in the race, the first round of which is scheduled for April 23.
An opinion poll published last week suggested that two-thirds of French voters believe Fillon should withdraw his election bid.
Alexei Navalny, a critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was found guilty of embezzlement Wednesday, the AP reported. The verdict bars him from running in Russia’s presidential election in 2018.
He was given a five-year suspended sentence, as demanded by prosecutors. Navalny maintains that the charges were politically motivated.
As the guilty verdict was read out, Navalny tweeted pictures of the earlier verdict, which he stated were “copy-pasted 100 percent.”
Navalny came to prominence in 2008 when he began writing about high-level corruption in Putin’s close circles, and subsequently gained a reputation as an opposition activist. He announced last year he would run in the 2018 elections.
Navalny had been convicted at an earlier hearing, but the European Court of Human Rights overturned the verdict in 2013, stating that he did not receive a fair trial.

MADRID — The Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE) is warming up for a leadership race that could put an abrupt end to the political stability achieved by the conservative Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.
After Pedro Sánchez was forced to resign as party leader in October, the PSOE decided to enable a second term in power for Rajoy to put an end to 10 months’ political deadlock. Its interim leadership, led by Javier Fernández, has agreed with Rajoy on issues like budget deficit targets, the minimum wage and a corporate tax hike to help guarantee the governability of Spain.
But this truce will be at risk if the Socialists turn more combative ahead of the leadership primary scheduled for May. The two men who have announced that they will stand — Sánchez and Patxi López, a former head of the Basque regional government — are appealing to those in the party who feel betrayed by the accommodating position toward Rajoy.
They promise a tougher stance against the conservatives. If they prevail, or if their influence on the primary hardens the PSOE’s position, Rajoy has made it clear since his investiture that he won’t put up with the opposition undermining his minority government: He could be tempted to call new elections as early as May, which would plunge Spain back into the political upheaval that dominated 2016, and cast a cloud over the recovery of a country now growing at one of the fastest rates in Europe.
López argued in his public debut as a candidate for the Socialist primary that enabling a second term for Rajoy was a mistake and part of a worrying trend among European Social Democrats to flirt with the right.
“My only understanding of the ‘Third Way’ is that it is an excuse by the left to promote the policies of the right,” said the 57-year-old MP.
Sánchez ignored López when announcing his candidacy Saturday, portraying it as a two-way contest between himself and Susana Díaz, the president of the region of Andalusia who is widely expected to compete in the primaries but has yet to announce her intentions.
The primary will be a contest between his own “leftist PSOE” and those who facilitated Rajoy’s second term and “left Spanish Socialism in no-man’s land,” said the 44-year-old Sánchez.
Susana Díaz, in contrast, backs the interim leadership of the party and its accommodating attitude to Rajoy. She isn’t expected to formally throw her hat in the ring until April but has been working the Socialist machine for months, courting party elders and regional bosses. PSOE insiders said the 42-year-old Andalusian has the strongest bloc of backers — and some hostile enemies who blame her for the internal coup that cost Sánchez the leadership last year.
Her backers say the party, in its current predicament, can’t afford to do without the leadership skills of a woman who has been able to keep the far-left in check in the region that she has run since 2015 with the backing of the centrist Ciudadanos party. In Andalusia, Podemos consistently underperforms.
However, even though Díaz has strong support among the middle and top cadres of the party, it’s far from certain she can sway a majority of the 190,000 Socialist party members who can vote and she’s keeping her options open as long as possible.
In any case, whoever carries the day will have a tough job ahead. Electoral setbacks have left the PSOE — which has governed Spain longer than any other party since the transition to democracy in the late 70s — lost and divided. The Socialists are going through a similar crisis to their center-left brethren across Europe — with the added ingredient of the Catalan independence movement.
Catalonia was once a Socialist stronghold: Between 1977 and 2008, they won every general election in the region, but the PSOE’s adherence to a united, federal Spain means the highly polemic issue of self-determination has been enormously damaging to the party, which came third in Catalonia in last June’s national elections, in terms of votes.
Socialist lawmaker Ignacio Sánchez Amor said the party has suffered at the ballot box because of the lack of a common, clearly defined position on territory and self-determination. Some regional divisions of the party became “dangerously close to the nationalists,” he said.
As the party struggles to define itself, another Socialist MP, Ignacio Urquizu — who has been drafting documents as part of a committee charged with assessing the party’s situation — recommends imitating the party’s comrades in Scandinavia. Social Democrats there focus on goals without getting hung up on the means and “analyze problems without much passion.” The Spaniards, on the other hand, “love the big debates,” said Urquizu.
With the campaign for the primary just getting under way, however, the chances are that any such cool-headed analysis will have to wait until after May’s vote, which will be followed by a party congress in June to formally anoint the new leader of the PSOE.
Even Rajoy remains cautious about the result. Asked in an interview last week whether a potential victory of Sánchez could prevent further pacts with the Socialists, the PM said: “I don’t know. Frankly, I don’t know.”
PARIS — It was a speech originally intended as the launch pad for his presidential campaign. Instead, François Fillon found himself defending his and his wife’s reputation against accusations of wrongdoing.
After four days of bruising allegations that he used public funds to pay significant salaries to his British wife Penelope for allegedly fictitious jobs, Fillon on Sunday told a crowd of 12,000 followers in the northeast of Paris that he won’t be “intimidated” by attacks which are aimed at “breaking” him.
But even some of his aides conceded Sunday night that it will take more than a big rally to put the campaign back on track as Républicains that worry he might have to pull out of the race.
The scandal that the French media have dubbed “Penelope-gate” has already hit Fillon if opinion polls are to be believed. According to a survey published in Le Figaro, he would barely beat former Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron to second place in the first round of the election scheduled for April 23, polling at 22 percent to Macron’s 21 percent.
Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front, currently leads the polls at 25 percent. Benoît Hamon, who won the Socialist Party primary against former Prime Minister Manuel Valls on Sunday night, would come in fourth with 15 percent of the vote, reflecting the momentum his campaign has acquired in the last two weeks.
In the second round, Macron would beat Le Pen, 65 percent to 35 percent even more convincingly than Fillon would at 60 percent to 40 percent, according to polls. Even more disturbing for Les Républicains, Macron would resoundingly beat Fillon, 58 percent to 42 percent if both men manage to keep Le Pen out of the runoff on May 7.
Fillon said last week on French TV that he would withdraw from the presidential election if he is put under formal investigation by judicial authorities. So far, the French financial prosecutor has only launched a preliminary probe into the allegations. But the fear in the Fillon campaign is that the current judicial probe will take several weeks, with periodic leaks and regular reminders that would amount to “Chinese water torture,” in the words of one of the aides.
Les Républicains lack a credible alternative leader that would be able to lead its presidential bid. The runner-up in the primary, Alain Juppé, has already declined a run as a “spare wheel” if his former adversary pulls out. The party wouldn’t have time to organize a proper primary before the election’s registration deadline March 22. And its statutes are unclear about who would have the authority to choose a candidate without an election.
As for former President Nicolas Sarkozy, his bad showing in the November primary election and the hostility it revealed among conservative voters, would preclude him from running even if he decided, once again, to end his promised “retirement” from politics.
If Fillon pulls out after the official deadline and Les Républicains can’t then field a candidate, Le Pen would benefit from the void on the right. That’s why his statement to pull out in case of an investigation was deemed “a mistake” by one Républicain official who said it “lets a threat hang over the campaign.”
“Can you imagine the right absent from the first round? Who takes the prize? Le Pen,” said a senior aide to Fillon.
In his speech Sunday, peppered with references to 1960s Gaullism and appeals to revive France’s prestige abroad, Fillon struck all the traditional right-wing notes that appealed to hardcore conservative voters in the primary.
“I’m being described as the representative of traditional France. But a man without roots is walking in the air,” he said.
But he also tried to reassure those of Les Républicains who have worried about a platform deemed too far right to appeal to the centrist voters he would need to convince in the general election.
Gone was the proposal to partly privatize the French heath care system, which Fillon had already pulled from his web site in December after it came under heavy attack from both the left and the far-right National Front.
Gone also was the reference to shrinking public sector ranks by 500,000 over five years, which even the head of the French industrialist lobby MEDEF had criticized as too harsh.
Instead, Fillon said that he held public servants in high esteem, even if he still wants to shrink the state. “I am the enemy of bureaucracy — not the enemy of public servants,” he said.
Senior citizens far outnumbered students at Fillon’s rally and few among the faithful seemed moved by the allegations of wrongdoing.
“This is honest man, and they attack him because he wants to change things,” said Emilie Chanteloup, 62, who’d come from Normandy to attend the rally.
However, even as the crowd of sympathizers offered enthusiastic applause, some Fillon aides admitted that it would take more than fiery rhetoric to keep the troubles at bay.
Fillon’s campaign plans were disrupted when the satirical weekly Canard Enchainé revealed Wednesday that the conservative candidate had employed his wife as a parliamentary aide, to the tune of half a million euros over eight years. Hiring spouses or relatives is not illegal in the French political system if the work is real – which is what is being questioned.
In the course of defending himself, Fillon also volunteered that, as an MP, he employed two of his lawyer children for specific projects. Then it was soon revealed that his children were only law students at the time.
His wife also received €100,000 from a financier friend for “consulting work” on a literary review that the review’s own editor wasn’t aware of. Authorities are investigating whether it may have amounted to misuse of corporate funds. The review’s owner has publicly said that the work was real.
Fillon has said he was “impatient” to be questioned by the prosecutor in charge of the case and bring him proof that his wife really did work.
And this weekend, Fillon found himself in hot water again when the investigative website Mediapart and the Journal du Dimanche published allegations that he wrote seven cheques to himself from a senate slush fund for “a total of around €21,000” between 2005 and 2007 when he was a member of that assembly.
At one point during his speech, trying to show that he had kept a modest lifestyle since his start in politics four decades ago, Fillon said he and his wife have only one, joint bank account at a Crédit Agricole branch in his hometown of Sablé in western France. But that arguably could make him a direct beneficiary of the largesse he allegedly extended to his wife.
The allegations against Fillon have done double damage to a candidate eager to present himself as unrelenting on the need to cut public spending and intransigent on public officials’ integrity.
If he remains the conservative candidate, Fillon made it clear Sunday that he sees Macron as his main adversary, trying to pin the failures of François Hollande’s deeply unpopular government on him.
“Macron is Hollande’s record. Macron is the symbol of those elites who know nothing about the country’s true reality,” he said, revisiting familiar themes.
Before him, speaker after speaker had also pounced on Macron as a co-author of Hollande’s unpopular policies and someone lacking the experience for the presidency.
At the rally, the former favorite and Fillon adversary in the primary, Juppé, sat next to him in the front row. Sarkozy, the former president whom Fillon served as prime minister from 2007 to 2012 before beating him in the right’s primary, was conspicuously absent from the Sunday rally.
The conservative speakers paid only cursory attention to Benoît Hamon, who won the left-wing primary on Sunday night with 59 percent of the vote against Valls’ 41 percent.
President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his executive order barring refugees and some legal immigrants from entering the United States, even as one of his top aides walked back part of the measure — signaling confusion and fissures within the 10-day-old administration.
“America is a proud nation of immigrants and we will continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do so while protecting our own citizens and border,” Trump said in an afternoon statement that also cited what he described as precedent set by former President Barack Obama. “To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion — this is about terror and keeping our country safe.”
Trump — who also took the time Sunday to accuse Sens. John McCain and Lindsey Graham of “looking to start World War III”— and his aides struggled to stay on message as global outrage grew over the executive order. The directive, which Trump has cast as a national security imperative, effectively bars entry to the United States by people ranging from Iraqi translators to Syrian refugees to a British Olympian. It also has been interpreted to apply to legal U.S. permanent residents and many foreigners with multiple nationalities.
Thousands gathered outside the White House to demand Trump rescind the order — one of a number of protests nationwide. Prominent Republicans and foreign leaders chided Trump, warning the order could backfire by inspiring terrorists. Democrats lunged for the political opening, vowing legislation to repeal the order and hinting at lawsuits filed by state attorneys general. Meanwhile, a string of rulings from judges halted the deportation of travelers caught in the drama, but also bewildered U.S. officials unsure how to enforce the order.
The developments underscore the haphazard approach the Trump administration has taken toward using its political power. Trump issued the order Friday with little notice to or input from the Department of Homeland Security, the State Department or other agencies critical to implementing it, according to multiple sources. The order’s complexity left administration lawyers scrambling to interpret it as advocacy groups filed lawsuits.
Trump did not appear moved by the chaos.
In his statement, he asserted that Obama had “banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months” in 2011. The Obama administration, reacting to intelligence indicating some refugees may have had terrorist ties, had actually instituted additional security checks, severely slowing down the visa issuance process. Trump also noted that the seven countries targeted by his order were also targeted by Obama as potential terror sources.
Early Sunday, Trump tweeted: “Our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting, NOW. Look what is happening all over Europe and, indeed, the world — a horrible mess!” the president tweeted early Sunday. Later in the morning, he sent out another tweet: “Christians in the Middle-East have been executed in large numbers. We cannot allow this horror to continue!”
A few hours later, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus told NBC News that the order would not affect U.S. legal permanent residents “moving forward,” which appeared to be a scaling back in response to legal threats. Still, Priebus muddied the waters by saying such people would still face extra screening before they could be allowed back into the United States if they travel to certain countries singled out by the order.
“President Trump is not willing to get this wrong which is why he wants to move forward quickly and protect Americans,” Priebus said.
But opponents say the executive order has upended the lives of numerous innocent people.
 
Ibrahim Lutfi and his relatives of natives of Sudan. Lutfi said his nephew, Ali Nadeeb, is a diabetic who has been in a coma at Howard University hospital. Ali’s mother planned to fly to the U.S. from Qatar to visit her son, but she was not allowed to board the plane despite having obtained a proper visitor’s visa, said Lutfi, who added that he became a U.S. citizen eight years ago. He joined hundreds of people protesting the Trump order at Dulles International Airport on Sunday.
“It’s her only son,” Lutfi said, holding a sign with a picture of smiling Ali alongside a second image of him in a hospital bed.
Trump’s executive order, issued Friday, has many elements, but its main features include an indefinite ban on Syrian refugees, a pause for all refugee admissions to the United States, and the temporary suspension of all visa holders from seven Muslim-majority countries: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen and Libya.
In his Sunday afternoon statement, Trump pointed out that more than 40 Muslim-majority countries were not singled out in the order. He also noted that the suspension of entries from those countries was temporary until the administration undertook a review and determined within 90 days that the security safeguards involved in screening those travelers were strong enough.
But Trump failed to mention that the conditions he has set in his executive order may not be able to be met by some or possibly all of those countries. The president wants, for instance, for the countries to share information with the U.S. to help it vet travelers. But some of the countries are too weakly governed, wrecked by war or do not have diplomatic ties with the United States, making it likely the bans on entry from those countries’ citizens could be indefinite. (U.S. officials have long used other measures to vet those citizens.)
The White House also initially insisted that U.S. legal permanent residents (so-called green-card holders) who hail from those seven countries must get additional screening if they are returning to America from abroad, but it left the nature of that screening unclear. Generally speaking, people of dual citizenship also are barred from entering the United States if one of their nationalities is from the seven countries.
The order took immediate effect, and the result was panic and confusion at airports across the country Friday and Saturday as some travelers’ legal status changed mid-flight. Those caught up included an Iraqi who obtained a special U.S. visa for helping American troops, as well as legal U.S. permanent residents returning from trips abroad. Lawyers rushed to airports to help the stranded on Saturday, while protesters did, too, jamming up streets outside major points such as O’Hare International Airport in Chicago and New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport.
Demonstrations continued nationwide Sunday. Hundreds of people streamed into Lafayette Square outside the White House, waving flags and signs. “No hate! No fear! Refugees are welcome here!” the crowd shouted. At Dulles, protesters cheered mid-day Sunday as passengers arrived on a plane from Saudi Arabia. Some of the travelers, whose exact nationalities were unclear, were obviously distressed. As they met their relatives, the crowd shouted “Welcome!” and “Glad you’re here!”
On the legal front, U.S. officials tried nail down the implications of a flurry of rulings from judges across the country that effectively barred customs and border agents from deporting the detained. The initial ruling came from Judge Ann Donnelly, a federal judge in Brooklyn appointed by Obama, on Saturday.
But even as the Department of Homeland Security promised it would abide by the ruling nationwide, including by allowing in green-card holders, there were reports of border agents saying they would continue to put people on planes leaving the United States.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) on Sunday spoke with Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, who told Schumer that the administration will comply with the court order.”
“All those still in airports expected to be admitted,” Schumer tweeted. The Democrat also pledged that the minority party will propose legislation to overturn Trump’s executive order.
Separately, 16 state attorneys general, including those from California and New York, spoke out against the executive order and warned that they will “use all of the tools of our offices to fight this unconstitutional order and preserve our nation’s national security and core values.”
Pressed for comment, a White House official downplayed the judicial impact, pointing to the Brooklyn ruling in particular. “Saturday’s ruling does not undercut the president’s executive order. All stopped visas will remain stopped. All halted admissions will remain halted. All restricted travel will remain prohibited,” the official said. “The order remains in place.”
Other Trump aides repeatedly tried to downplay the situation, arguing that, considering how many people regularly travel to the United States, the numbers affected were relatively small and thus of little consequence.
“There’s 325,000 people from foreign countries that traveled into the United States yesterday,” White House spokesman Sean Spicer told ABC News on Sunday. “There are 109 people that this actually addressed that had come in post-entry from seven countries that we’ve identified.”
Spicer further refuted reports that the administration had blindsided its own agencies, claiming the White House told the “people that needed to know” about the order in advance. Still, he added, much of it was kept secret to prevent a sudden surge of people trying to reach America.
“What we couldn’t do was telegraph our position ahead of time to ensure that people flooded in before that happened, before it went into place,” he said. “If we had telegraphed that ahead of time, then that would have been a massive security problem.”
Spicer insisted that the executive order does not amount to a ban on Muslims as some critics insist because many Muslim-majority countries are not covered by it. But Priebus, speaking to NBC News, acknowledged that the number of Muslim countries covered by the order could be expanded; as it stands, nations such as Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, whose citizens have been involved in major terrorist attacks against the United States, aren’t targeted by the order.
Numerous Democratic lawmakers have blasted the order, and Trump’s fellow Republicans have started to splinter. A handful, such as Sens. Jeff Flake of Arizona and Ben Sasse of Nebraska, issued statements saying the order goes too far, especially when it affects legal permanent residents. McCain (R-Arizona) and Graham (R-S.C.) warned in a joint statement that the executive order could bolster recruitment by terrorists who claim the West hates Muslims.
“Ultimately, we fear this executive order will become a self-inflicted wound in the fight against terrorism,” McCain and Graham said.
Trump fought back against McCain and Graham in a pair of tweets released around the same time his office issued his statement defending the refugee order.
“The joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong – they are sadly weak on immigration. The two…Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III,” Trump wrote of two men who have long disdained him.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell tried to strike a balance in an interview with ABC, insisting that while he opposes religious tests for people entering the country, additional vetting isn’t a bad idea.
“We need to remember that some of our best allies in the war against Islamic terrorism are Muslims,” the Kentucky Republican added, pointing out that those allies include interpreters in war zones overseas. Trump’s order could in particular bar many Iraqi interpreters who’ve applied to a special U.S. visa program.
Still, Trump’s tweet about Christians undercut some of McConnell’s arguments. The executive order makes a point of directing U.S. officials to give priority to religious minorities once the refugee program resumes, and in many cases that implies Christians. That being said, although Christians have been treated viciously in several of the countries affected by the order, many Muslims have, too, especially if they are of the minority Shiite branch of Islam. In any case, Trump’s executive order de facto bars Christians from Syria and beyond; two Syrian Christian families that landed in Philadelphia were sent back to Qatar following the order.
Also chiming in on the debate in the United States were foreign leaders. Canada’s Justin Trudeau tweeted that his country remained open to refugees, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Theresa May also reportedly criticized the order.
British residents were particularly upset as word spread of prominent compatriots who could be affected. Olympic track champion Mo Farah, a British citizen of Somali descent who lives and trains in the United States, wrote a Facebook post in which he worried the policy could separate him from his children. As it’s currently interpreted, if Farah were to leave the United States, he wouldn’t be allowed back in.
“On 1st January this year, Her Majesty The Queen made me a Knight of the Realm. On 27th January, President Donald Trump seems to have made me an alien,” Farah wrote.
PARIS — Former Education Minister Benoît Hamon cruised to victory in the Socialists’ primary for the French presidential nomination Sunday night.
Hamon won almost 59 percent of the vote, with about four-fifths of the voting stations counted. His opponent in the second-round runoff, former Prime Minister Manuel Valls, won slightly more than 41 percent, according to organizers.
Just over 2 million voters took part Sunday, up from 1.6 million in the first round a week earlier.
“This victory gives me considerable strength to represent you and win this presidential election,” Hamon told a cheering crowd at the Mutualité conference center on Paris’ Left Bank. “This is a left that is turning toward the future and wants to win.”
Hamon’s wider-than-expected victory was a powerful rebuke to the legacy of Valls and President François Hollande. The 49-year-old Hamon instead cites the U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders and the U.K. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn as his left-wing role models, and has vowed to modernize the French left by bringing it in tune with grassroots movements like Podemos in Spain.
But with the first round of France’s presidential election three months away, he faces the difficult task of rallying a divided left behind his candidacy. His first challenge will be to reach out to supporters of the defeated Valls – many of whom said Sunday they would support former Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron in the presidential election.
“Tomorrow I will begin to gather the Socialists, all of the Socialists,” Hamon said Sunday. “I address a sincere and warm thanks to Manuel Valls … We were able to say that our differences will not be irreconcilable when it comes to confronting our real opponents.”
Hamon’s victory in the primary fit with a pattern of French electoral upsets, notably former Prime Minister François Fillon’s win in the conservative primary in November.
While polls showed Valls would most likely end up facing former Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg in the race’s final round, Hamon came from behind with a surprisingly strong performance last Sunday.
During several TV debates he shrugged off criticism, notably from Valls, that his plans to fund a universal basic income with robot tax receipts were dreamy and unrealistic. The left needed dreams, big ideas and bold proposals to reconnect with voters who had been disgusted with Hollande’s five years in power, he argued.
The strategy worked. Feeding on the defiant energy of far-left protest movements like La Nuit Debout (or “Up All Night”) Hamon is now the mainstream left’s pick for the presidential election, the first round of which takes place April 23.
By contrast Valls, who stepped down from his post in December, struggled to gain momentum. The former prime minister stumbled early by awkwardly proposing a ban on executive decrees — a device that he repeatedly used as prime minister, incurring the wrath of rebel MPs including Hamon.
On Sunday, Valls praised Hamon and said he would meet with him the same evening at Socialist Party headquarters to work on the campaign to come. The left’s main objective, said Valls, was winning the presidential election and defeating far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen.
“We refuse to have Marine Le Pen become the face of France,” said Valls. “Benoît Hamon is now the candidate of our political family and it’s his task to carry out the beautiful mission of gathering us all together.”
But even as Hamon celebrated, a series of major challenges hung over his candidacy. Polls taken before the primary showed he has little chance of breaking into the presidential election’s first round. In the event of a defeat, Hamon will face the tricky task of unifying a party that has been heading for a split between rebels and the Socialist establishment.
There will also be the battle for far-left votes. Even as voting continued Sunday evening, backers of far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon lined up on TV shows to attack Hamon as an instrument of the failing Socialist Party. Voters who want truly radical change — including the new constitution that both Hamon and Mélenchon advocate — should get behind the latter candidate, they argued.
Hamon tried to reach out to Mélenchon voters in a victory speech, saying that as early as Monday he would invite the far-left firebrand and Greens Party candidate Yannick Jadot to rally behind his candidacy.
But while the latter candidate could get behind Hamon’s heavily ecological platform, there is little chance that Mélenchon — who sat out the primary — will follow.
Then there is the problem of Macron.
The former economy minister is currently ranked third in polls of voting intentions in the election’s first round. With Valls out of the race, many middle-ground Socialists who supported the government’s reform program are likely to rally behind Macron instead of Hamon.
Their support could turbocharge the candidacy of Macron, who is already reaping the benefits of an expenses scandal plaguing the race’s front-runner, François Fillon.
The former conservative prime minister tried Sunday to draw a line under the scandal over disputed payments to his wife during a speech to supporters in Paris. But polls show the negative coverage has badly dented his public image.
If he drops out, rivals will be ready to pounce. And Hamon will again have to beat the odds to stay relevant.
BERLIN — Martin Schulz shifted into combat mode Sunday in his first speech after becoming the Social Democratic Party’s candidate for chancellor.
“We are going to make the elections this year a real thrill,” he said. “Our party, the SPD, has the ambition to become the strongest political force in the next election. And I have the ambition to become the next chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany,” said Schulz, speaking in front of a crowd of supporters, officials and party leaders at a packed Willy-Brandt-Haus, the party’s headquarters.
It was a message that the party had been starving for. Striking these confident tones, Schulz cited the party’s past, telling the crowd that former chancellors Willy Brandt, Helmut Schmidt and Gerhard Schröder “were good for Germany.”
The core message went to the party rather than to the country and was a kind of “yes, we can” — in a Rheinish accent.
The party leadership (the “Vorstand”) on Sunday morning chose Schulz as their candidate, a decision which, he tweeted, gave him a “crazy feeling” and made him “humble and grateful.” Current party leader Sigmar Gabriel said the decision was unanimous.
The nomination followed Gabriel’s announcement not to run against Chancellor Angela Merkel himself and to resign as SPD’s leader.
A party congress in March is set to make Schulz’s nomination official. He will resign as an MEP next week.
It will be a heavy lift for him to bring back SPD to power within the next eight months. The party polled at 20 percent before Gabriel stepped back earlier this week. Germans will go to the polls on September 24.
Germany’s social democrats are not alone in a fight against political insignificance: polls forecast a defeat for the Social Democrats in the elections in the Netherlands in March. The French left, too, is divided and the Spanish Socialist Workers’ party may follow their Greek comrades from The Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) into political oblivion.
The candidacy of Schulz, however, may change the equation in Germany. A new poll by Germany’s ZDF television published Friday had the SPD climb up to 24 percent, while Merkel’s Christian Democrats were unchanged at 36 percent. Schulz figured high up on a list of the 10 most popular German politicians, second to another Social Democrat, future president Frank-Walter Steinmeier. The party has gotten 700 new members since Tuesday, according to secretary general Katarina Barley.
Schulz is already defining the tone and main issues of his campaign.
“Time for more justice. Time for Martin Schulz,” read the first campaign billboard that was put up on the facade of the party headquarters on Sunday. It hinted at a central campaign message: that the candidate will make sure that hard-working middle-class voters aren’t let behind. “I’m keen on putting the hard working people … and their concerns at the center,” Schulz said.
“It’s about those people — not about the ten percent screamers, ” Gabriel earlier said when introducing Schulz.
Schulz explained by example: When the local bakery pays taxes but a global coffee company doesn’t, “then there’s no fairness,” Schulz said, in a variation on a well-known theme from previous speeches. “The fight against tax evasion will be a central issue this year,” said Schulz.
“If we invest billions (of euros) to rescue banks but the stucco falls off the walls in children’s schools, there’s no fairness,” Schulz said.
He avoided direct attacks against Merkel, limiting himself to criticizing her for a lack of vision. He went after Merkel’s Bavarian sister party CSU for being disloyal and  for “daily humiliations of the chancellor from within her own union.” The CSU hasn’t officially declared Merkel as its candidate.
He also called it an “open affront” that the CSU is “flattering and applauding” Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán who Schulz accused of taking a free ride on the EU.
“Germany is showing solidarity,” he said. But if other countries such as Hungary take money from EU funds but don’t want to take in refugees, “then the next federal government must connect the question of solidarity with the next EU budget framework,” Schulz said.
He, who spoke for about one hour, had planned to speak “longer than Merkel but shorter than Fidel Castro,” according to a party official.
Schulz countered criticism that he has no experience in German politics, given that he has been an MEP for 23 years. “Some say, ‘Schulz is an EU politician and has no clue about German issues,'” he said, highlighting his years as a mayor of Würselen, a small town close to the Dutch and Belgian border.
“Every problem ends up at town halls, eventually,” he said, adding that he considers such “comments about me an insult to the tens of thousands of people” in local politics. “I’m not embarrassed that I come from Würselen and that this small town … is my home.”
He pledged that “with me, there won’t be any Europe-bashing” and said that when it comes to his CV — he dropped out of school and never went to university — is one he shares “with the majority of the people in this country.”
A chancellor, according to Schulz, needs not only to understand people’s concerns but “to have deep empathy.”
François Fillon, the conservative candidate in the upcoming French elections, found himself in hot water again after allegations that he misused public funds when working as a member of the French senate, a potential blow to his presidential bid.
The revelations, published Sunday by the investigative website Mediapart and the Journal du Dimanche, allege Fillon wrote seven cheques to himself for “a total of around 21,000 euros” between 2005 and 2007 when he was a member of the senate. The claims come on the heels of equally troublesome revelations that his wife, Penelope, received €500,000 over an eight-year period for a fictitious job as a parliamentary assistant. The scandal has been dubbed “PenelopeGate” by the French media.
No rules in France prohibit lawmakers from hiring spouses or relations and Fillon has vigorously denied any illegality, arguing that his British wife did real work for him.
“She has edited my speeches, stood in for me at events when I couldn’t be there, done newspaper reviews,” he told French television last week, adding that proof will soon be provided to the public prosecutor.
The allegations against Fillon, who is running in this spring’s presidential election for Les Républicains, place greater pressure on him as he seeks to fight off challenges from Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front, and Emmanuel Macron, a liberal candidate who used to be France’s economy minister and who recently made a considerable leap in the polls.
Fillon sought to put on a brave face Sunday as he addressed thousands of party supporters at his first organized rally aimed at garnering support ahead of the first round of voting in the French presidential election.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to ban people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States elicited rebukes from European allies and put two of the leaders he has courted — Britain’s Theresa May and Germany’s Angela Merkel — in a politically difficult situation at home.
The White House move, which sparked protests at airports and legal challenges in the U.S., looks likely to strain the transatlantic alliance at the start of the Trump presidency. Merkel has pledged to work with the new American leader to shore up that alliance, while May is seeking to build a close relationship as Britain gets ready to leave the EU.
Heightening their discomfort, the new American president’s rhetoric and now actions on Muslim migration echo the positions of Europe’s far-right parties, which pose a challenge to the Continent’s political establishment.
In the past two years, it is the EU and not the U.S. that has repeatedly been hit by terror attacks carried out by people who claim allegiance to the Islamic State, most recently last month in Berlin. Europe has a much bigger population of Muslims than the U.S. does and has seen hundreds of thousands of migrants, many of them from war-torn countries in the Middle East, seek refuge in their countries.
These considerations were reflected in Merkel’s response to Trump. The German chancellor spoke to the new president by telephone Saturday and their joint statement didn’t mention his executive order on migrants from Muslim countries. On Sunday morning, her spokesman issued a cautiously worded statement expressing “regret” about the move. It seemed aimed at a domestic and European audience more than Trump.
Merkel is “convinced that the necessary, decisive struggle against terrorism does not justify a general suspicion against people of a certain origin or a certain religion,” said Steffen Seibert, the chancellor’s spokesperson. He also said Merkel has explained the rights of war refugees on humanitarian grounds as stipulated in the Geneva Convention on Refugees during the telephone call with Trump on Saturday.
Britain’s Prime Minister May faced backlash at home after her embrace of Trump in Washington Friday. The White House issued its order only hours after she left. Asked about it by the traveling press corps three separate times at her next stop in Ankara, May refused to criticize Trump. By the time she arrived in London late Saturday night, her spokesman issued a statement to say the British government did not agree with the ban.
“Immigration policy in the United States is a matter for the government of the United States, just the same as immigration policy for this country should be set by our government,” the statement said. “But we do not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking.”
As part of its reaction to the new administration’s approach on immigration, Britain will make so-called “representations” to the U.S. government to protect the rights of British citizens looking to enter the Unites States, the statement added.
British Conservative lawmaker Nadhim Zahawi said he would no longer be allowed to enter the U.S.  since he is a dual national. “I don’t think I have felt discriminated since little school when the kids were very cruel, as a young boy coming from Iraq of Kurdish origin,” he told BBC One’s Andrew Marr Show on Sunday.
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, however, lauded Trump for his decision. “He’s fully entitled to do this and as far as we’re concerned in this country, yes I would like to see extreme vetting,” Farage told Andrew Neil on BBC One’s Sunday Politics show.
First Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, echoed a tweet from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Saturday evening, saying “those fleeing persecution, terror & war” would be “welcome to Scotland, too.”
The executive action affects nationals from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen but not Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. It also suspends the entry of all refugees to the U.S. for 120 days. A judge blocked deportations of those who were being held at U.S. airports.
France’s President François Hollande said Saturday he intended to have a “firm discussion” with Trump regarding his policy and urged EU countries to respond. Presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron, who broke away from the Socialist Party to start his own political movement, said on Twitter: “I stand with the people fleeing war and persecution. I stand with the people defending our values.”
London Mayor Sadiq Khan, a practicing Muslim, on Sunday morning called the ban “shameful and cruel.”
The mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, criticized Trump’s policies on migration, including his stated promise to build a wall along the Mexican border. “I call on the American president: Remember your forerunner, Ronald Reagan. Remember his words: ‘Tear down this wall’,” he wrote. “And so I say: ‘Mr. President, don’t build this wall.'”
Writers have fracked the literary canon in search of a character who best resembles Donald Trump. Is he Richard III? Nah, Richard III was witty and Trump isn’t. Is he Willie Stark, the protagonist from Robert Penn Warren’s All the King’s Men? There’s a passing resemblance, but Willie was a drunk and a life-long pol; Trump’s a teetotaler in office for the first time. Lonesome Rhodes from A Face in the Crowd? The TV demagoguery fits, but Rhodes was never a candidate. Bane from The Dark Knight Rises, whom Trump quoted in his inaugural speech? Or is Trump an amalgam of characters out of Mark Twain?
My explorations of the canon for Trump’s literary antecedent sent me back to one of my favorite writers, novelist Stanley Elkin. Elkin’s short story “A Poetics for Bullies” from the April 1965 issue of Esquire, which also appeared in his Criers and Kibitzers, Kibitzers and Criers collection, anticipated the irritable mental gestures (to pinch a phrase) that define the 45th president of the United States. The story’s protagonist is a high-schooler, perhaps an older middle-schooler, who goes by the name of Push the Bully, who introduces himself in the first paragraph thusly:
I’m Push the bully, and what I hate are new kids and sissies, dumb kids and smart, rich kids, poor kids, kids who wear glasses, talk funny, show off, patrol boys and wise guys and kids who pass pencils and water the plants — and cripples, especially cripples. I love nobody loved.
Push’s reign of terror extends from physical punishment — “Did you ever see a match burn twice?” — to swiping the game ball from other kids to promising 6-year-olds a stick of gum and then abandoning them in an auditorium to endlessly pushing his way to first in line. Push can smell weakness in others, and when he does, he exploits it. When he locates confidence in others, he does his best to undermine it. Even those who are completely normal and unafflicted feel the ridicules of his expert mimicry.
Push doesn’t beat people up. He uses his head to beat them down with insults and cruelties to cement his place in the pecking order — not unlike Donald Trump. Trump, you’ll recall, spackled the campaign trail with thousands of insults for his opponents, media organizations, newscasters, government officials, reporters, celebrities, entire nations, a department store (Macy’s), NATO, protesters, Super Bowl 50, pollsters, businessmen and more. And that’s just counting his Twitter feed. Trump’s insults, often coarse, are sharpened by hand and are usually tipped by a smear of dung to poison foes. During the campaign he availed himself of the entire insult catalogue — Carly Fiorina’s looks, for example, John Kasich’s dining manners, Jeb Bush’s “energy,” and Rick Perry’s IQ.
Like Push’s insults, Trump’s insults needn’t be accurate to score. His insults exact damage by violating the usual comity that governs civilized life. Like a Hell’s Angel, Trump transgresses for the pure joy of it, and he gets away with it because few possess the will to descend to his level and retaliate. Marco Rubio tried to bully Trump back, calling him a con artist and mocking, we were left to presume, the size of Trump’s wedding vegetables. Trump, unwounded, ate him alive, tweeting, “Lightweight Marco Rubio was working hard last night. The problem is, he is a choker, and once a choker, always a choker! Mr. Meltdown.” Rubio soon regretted the personal slights, but his remorse was more about losing the schoolyard brawl than about the stuff of his digs.
Even in victory, Trump continues the tormenting if not the physical insults. CNN, he tweeted this week, is “FAKE NEWS,” which is more a lie than it is a taunt. Chelsea Manning is an “Ungrateful TRAITOR.” Rep. John Lewis is “All talk, talk, talk — no action or results.”
Like Push, Trump navigates by internal rancor. Unhappy with his own humanity, he craves for what he can’t have, which is our respect. “I wish I were tall, or fat, or thin,” Push says. “I wish I had different eyes, different hands, a mother in the supermarket. I wish I were a man, a small boy, a girl in the choir. I’m a coveter, a Boston Blackie of the heart, casing the world.” Had Push been a real person, Jeff Zucker would have hired him to host The Apprentice instead of Trump.
In his book, Reading Stanley Elkin, Peter J. Bailey writes that Push defines himself “largely in terms of the spontaneous, gratuitous, irrational desires he feels but cannot gratify; he incessantly and obsessively wants to encompass more, have more, be more than his paltry single share of existence allows him to encompass, have, be.” Push, like our new president, attacks the inadequacies of others because he’s super-aware of his own. His hair color and his Dorito skin tone are only the most visible manifestations of his self-loathing.
Not to ruin the story for you (SPOILER ALERT), but a new kid whose voice Push can’t mock, whose charisma he can’t tarnish, whose decency he cannot pollute upends him. The new kid can’t be physically bullied, either, and when Push sucker-punches him, he fights back and extends the hand of friendship to Push after throttling him. “Push is not so much dissatisfied with what he is as angry at all that he isn’t,” Bailey writes.
Trump didn’t throw a Pushian punch at President Barack Obama when they met in the White House in November. But reviewing the video excerpt from the session, you needn’t have read “A Poetic for Bullies” to sense that Obama’s bearing caused Trump to curb his bile. It’s not that Obama is a Christ-child or that he’s immune to mimicry. But Trump has insulted — bullied — Obama repeatedly over the years, yet the lies and the slights and the scorn have never found purchase with him the way they did the Republican candidates or Hillary Clinton.
I’m no Obama sentimentalist. I never voted for him. I threw bricks at him. I only observe here that Obama’s comportment had a way of neutralizing Trump’s slights while still permitting him to return fire in a buoyant manner. “Now, if somebody can’t handle a Twitter account, they can’t handle the nuclear codes,” Obama said just before the election after it was reported that Republican staffers had removed Trump from his Twitter.
Other means of repelling Trump’s mean girlisms may exist, but I suspect I’m onto something here. If the short story fits, Mr. President, read it.
Jack Shafer is POLITICO‘s senior media writer.
ANKARA — Donald Trump and Theresa May agreed to begin preliminary talks on a free trade deal during their bilateral meeting at the White House, according to Downing Street.
The two leaders committed to pursue a new “U.K.-U.S. Trade Negotiation Agreement” that would pave the way for a formal free-trade deal to be signed “as soon as possible” after the U.K. leaves the European Union, a Number 10 official said, adding they “shared [an] ambition” to do so.
During lunch at the White House on Friday, President Trump pledged to keep in place the same arrangements Britain currently has with the U.S. through the EU after Brexit, to increase trade between the two countries “more than ever before” and to work to put in place a new bilateral trading relationship between Britain and the U.S., added the official, who was briefing the traveling British press in the Turkish capital Ankara, where May stopped over on her way back from the U.S.
Trump and the British Prime Minister agreed to set up joint U.K.-U.S. working groups “to start scoping what can be achieved together before the United Kingdom exits the European Union,” the official added.
The declarations from Washington are intended to calm business anxieties around the future of U.K.-U.S. trade relations following Britain’s exit from the EU sometime in 2019. Speaking after the meeting with President Trump, May said the U.K.’s outreach to Washington “underlines our commitment to use the opportunities of Brexit.”
The Trade Negotiation Agreement is designed to deal with potential stumbling blocks that could delay the completion of a free trade deal. It will also be used to bring forward measures to reduce trade barriers before Brexit such as removing roaming charges and non-tariff barriers blocking agricultural exports.
“While we remain members of the EU we can’t sign a free trade agreement,” a Downing Street official said. “But there are other steps we can take.”
“It’s maintaining the economic co-operation America currently has with the EU and replicating that between the U.S. and the U.K.,” added the official. “You can remove non-trade tariffs to goods, using the ability of workers to work in the UK and the US, action on roaming charges. Things like that to make business between the two easier.”
This push to move forward as soon as possible on a free trade deal came after May met Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House of Representatives, in Philadelphia Thursday. Ryan pressed the U.K. to move ahead with negotiations as soon as possible, the Number 10 official said.
This article was updated after a Downing Street official contacted POLITICO to clarify their comments on Saturday about a trade negotiation agreement between Britain and the U.S. During talks at the White House last Friday, Theresa May and Donald Trump came to a “shared ambition” to pursue the agreement but didn’t sign it, the official said. An earlier version of this article, following a briefing from a Downing Street official, reported that the two leaders had signed the agreement.
ANKARA ­— Fresh from public displays of affection at their joint press conference early Friday afternoon, Donald Trump and Theresa May retired to the White House state banqueting room for lunch. Then it got really interesting.
The defining image of the pair, walking hand-in-hand like the odd couple of world politics, came as they strolled along the White House colonnade on their way for grub — an all-American menu of blue cheese salad and beef ribs.
Inside the room, each were joined by their eight closest officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, Trump’s ideological guru Steve Bannon and his influential son-in-law Jared Kushner.
The conversation was “warm, free-flowing and unscripted,” a Number 10 official said, with the pair spending much of the hour-long meeting discussing the Brexit vote, which Trump has backed with gusto.
What else went on behind closed doors? Based on an account of the encounter given by a Number 10 briefer to the British press corps travelling with her from Washington to Turkey and then on to London, here are nine of the most telling moments from inside the room.
“At the end of the lunch he said that he always kept menu cards to remember significant moments,” the Number 10 official said.
By this measure, Trump deemed his lunch with the British prime minister significant. “He gave the menu card to one of his members of staff and said ‘keep that safe, I had lunch with the British prime minister’.”
While warm and friendly for most of the meal, serious diplomacy was also done. At these moments, Trump was resolute. May raised the thorny issue of Russia and its violations of the Minsk agreement, designed to end fighting in eastern Ukraine. “He said he understood her position,” the official said. But Trump doubled down on his commitment to make friends with Moscow. “[He said] he hoped that he could have a great relationship,” the official added.
“He said several times that it was really important to see Theresa first when he comes to England,” the official said, putting one HRH Elizabeth II in her place. “He wants to see her first on arrival. ‘When I come to the UK, I want to see you first’.” Will May oblige and wait obediently on the Heathrow tarmac for Trump’s arrival later this year?
Trump and May bonded over their love for the conservative icons Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, with the U.S. president expressing his hope that the new transatlantic power couple could strike an even closer relationship. “They talked a lot about Thatcher and Reagan,” the official said. “Both agreed it was one of the most successful political relationships ever. They referred to the time that Thatcher took over Britain and the large challenges that she faced, and agreed that they had a shared admiration for her. Trump went on to say that he always looked up to Reagan and said that he wanted their relationship to be even better than that one.”
Trump swept aside diplomatic niceties by raising his old friend Nigel Farage during the conversation. The UKIP leader’s name came up “in the context of the Brexit vote,” the official said. “Trump made clear his views on Brexit. He said he’d heard Farage’s take on it and was interested to hear the prime minister’s take.”
May told the U.S. president that, in her view, the British public wanted the U.K. to be “a sovereign nation in charge of its own decisions.” She said these were “hard-working people who, she felt, had been left behind.” In response, Trump said he cared for those people too and talked about how he felt there “were many in America who felt the same.”
“If you watch the video, they’re walking along and there is an unseen ramp,” the Number 10 official said, when asked about the already famous hand-holding image. “He offered his hand, which she took as they stepped down the ramp,” the source said. Asked if this was seen as a “chivalrous gesture” the aide agreed.
Is there another reason he took the British prime minister’s hand? The chatter in the White House press corps, picked up by U.K. government officials, was that the president had a phobia of stairs and ramps — a condition known as bathmophobia. Paired with his self-confessed “germophobia,” which may have stopped him reaching for the hand rail, Trump’s “chivalrous” gesture may have been less gentlemanly than at first sight, some wags averred.
ANKARA — British Prime Minister Theresa May, swinging through the Turkish capital on her way back from Washington, sealed a potentially transformative arms deal with Ankara on Saturday that will see British engineers help design and build 250 fighter jets for Turkey.
The agreement, which was put on ice after the attempted July coup against President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and his subsequent crackdown against the opposition and media, paves the way for a new Anglo-Turkish defense partnership that the U.K. government believes will effectively make Britain Ankara’s “industrial partner of choice.”
The initial £100 million deal is seen as a “gateway” agreement potentially worth “billions” to the U.K. economy, a Downing Street spokeswoman said. The wider program could see Britain provide engines, weapons, radars and sensors to the Turkish military.
May’s decision to embrace Erdogan — becoming the first Western leader to visit Ankara since the failed coup on July 15 — comes despite mounting concerns over human rights abuses in the country and contrasts with the chilly relations between Ankara and the European Union over recent years. While the EU has relied on Turkey to help stem the tide of hundreds of refugees into Europe, it has also criticized the authoritarian turn by Ankara and put accession talks on ice.
After their private one-on-one talks at the presidential palace in Ankara, the leaders agreed a new “strategic security partnership” between the two countries, with officials set to meet every six months.
Asked directly whether it was appropriate for the U.K. to be selling arms to the Erdoğan government, the Downing Street spokeswoman insisted human rights concerns were a “separate” issue and that the deal was “justified and important.”
Speaking in front of the cameras while Erdoğan looked on, May did raise the issue. “I’m proud that the U.K. stood with you on 15 July last year in defence of democracy and now it is important that Turkey sustains that democracy by maintaining the rule of law and upholding its international human rights obligations as the government has undertaken to do,” she told the Turkish president.
When May arrived for talks with the Turkish leader, Erdoğan pointed to a huge TV in the corner showing scenes from the U.K. prime minister’s visit to the White House the day before. May laughed in surprise. “It was well covered in Turkey,” an aide to the president explained. May smiled. “Well covered,” she repeated, and smiled again.
After her meeting with Erdogan, May said the arms agreement signaled “the start of a new and deeper trading relationship with Turkey” following Britain’s decision to leave the European Union.
It comes after Downing Street announced Friday that Britain and Turkey will set up a working group to prepare the ground for a bilateral trade deal after Brexit.
President Donald Trump’s order to bar refugees and citizens from certain Muslim countries from the U.S. elicited growing criticism from European leaders, including British Prime Minister Theresa May and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Merkel’s spokesman told Spiegel on Sunday that blanket restrictions aren’t justified by the war on terror, saying the German leader “regrets” the ban and expressed her concerns in a telephone conversation with Trump on Saturday.
Shortly after meeting U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May on Friday, Trump signed an executive order canceling the arrival of refugees and asylum seekers for four months, and banning citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from arriving in the country. Syrian refugees are also indefinitely restricted from coming to the country.
French President François Hollande on Saturday promised that he would have “a firm discussion” with Trump about it. At a summit of southern European countries in Lisbon on Saturday, Hollande also said that he was concerned by Trump’s call for more countries to leave the EU, following in the footsteps of the U.K., and that EU countries had to respond to his rhetoric, according to Agence France Presse. Hollande spoke by phone with Trump later on Saturday.
During her stop in Ankara on the way back from a visit to the U.S., British Prime Minister Theresa May refused to condemn Trump’s Muslim ban after being asked about it three times at a press conference with the Turkish prime minister on Saturday. “The United States is responsible for the United States’ policy on refugees,” she said. “The United Kingdom is responsible for the United Kingdom’s policy on refugees.”
But soon after midnight in London, May’s spokesman put out a statement that “we do not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking.”
“We are studying this new executive order to see what it means and what the legal effects are, and in particular what the consequences are for U.K. nationals,” the statement added. “If there is any impact on U.K. nationals then clearly we will make representations to the U.S. government about that.”
London Mayor Sadiq Khan, a practicing Muslim, on Sunday morning called the ban “shameful and cruel.”

The mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, in a statement criticized Trump’s policies on migration, including his stated promise to build a wall along the Mexican border. “I call on the American President: remember your forerunner, Ronald Reagan. Remember his words: ‘Tear down this wall’,” he wrote. “And so I say: ‘Mr. President, don’t build this wall’.”
The French were the most outspoken from the start.
“This can only worry us,” Jean-Marc Ayrault, the French foreign minister, said at a press conference in Paris on Saturday, according to Reuters. Ayrault added that he and Germany’s Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel discussed their concerns over Trump’s move. “Welcoming refugees who flee war and oppression is part of our duty,” Ayrault said.
The liberal French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron on Sunday also chimed in on Twitter:

 
The United Nations refugee agency, UNHCR, and the International Organization for Migration also called on Trump to reconsider his decision, according to Reuters.
The two U.N. agencies said they hoped “that the U.S. will continue its strong leadership role and long tradition of protecting those who are fleeing conflict and persecution.”
Meanwhile, Google told traveling staff to come back to the U.S. out of fear they wouldn’t be granted re-entry into the country. At least 187 Google employees could be affected by Trump’s order, said the company’s CEO Sundar Pichai in a memo to the company, according to the Wall Street Journal.
This article was updated on Sunday.
Tom McTague in Ankara contributed reporting to this article.
A week after his inauguration, President Donald Trump welcomed British Prime Minister Theresa May to the White House — and behaved like a gentleman.
In his first meeting with a foreign leader, Trump abandoned the bluster and boasting he’s kept up since his inauguration in favor of a genial, friendly tone.
Speaking from the East Room, Trump praised Britain’s decision to leave the European Union. “I think Brexit is going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” he said. “I think when it irons out, you’re going to have your own identity, and you are going to have the people that you want in your country and be able to make free trade deals without having somebody watching you and what you are doing.”
When a BBC reporter asked about his support for Russia, torture and barring Muslim visitors, Trump responded with humor instead of anger, joking, “There goes that relationship” — a reference to the longstanding “special relationship” between the U.S. and Britain.
May came to the U.S. to reaffirm those ties as she embarks on the process of taking the United Kingdom out of the European Union. Trump and his advisers are close to former UKIP head Nigel Farage, a Brexit backer who has been a May antagonist.
During the news conference, she said Trump had committed to NATO, an organization he criticized repeatedly during his campaign as obsolete. “Mr. President, you confirmed that you’re 100 percent behind NATO,” May said.
May moved to defuse any tensions by publicly flattering Trump, congratulating him for a “stunning election victory,” which made Trump beam from the podium. She also extended, and Trump accepted, an invitation for a state visit with the Queen.
Trump, who referred to May by her first name, took her hand as he walked her through the White House.
The two were joined for lunch by May’s staff and Trump’s senior advisers Stephen Bannon and Jared Kushner as well as White House press secretary Sean Spicer.
Tom McTague contributed to the report.
EU FIGHTS FAKE NEWS MACHINE FROM SHADOWS: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told Playbook he does not believe in “fighting propaganda with propaganda.” The EU also stays out of the propaganda game (mostly) but has created a team called “East StratCom” in the External Action Service to catalogue and expose disinformation it says comes from the Russian state. So far it claims to have found nearly 2,500 examples of Russian disinformation.
You can imagine Playbook’s surprise when journalists were invited to a briefing Monday on said disinformation, only to be told they couldn’t quote the
diplomats giving the briefing. Reporters were, in other words, asked to expose disinformation from shadowy sources via non-quotes from another faceless source.
To be fair, the team has a slick “EU vs Disinformation” Facebook page and a Twitter account (@EUvsDisinfo), so it’s not completely in the shadows. But Playbook can’t help wondering if Brussels should put the “face” back into Facebook.
Here’s some context we can give you: The “EU source” is part of a team of about a dozen people, with no discretionary budget. They have uncovered false stories such as one about the Ukrainian army crucifying a three-year-old boy in a former rebel stronghold. Angela Merkel is a new target of Russian disinformation, says the “EU source,” and is regularly implicated as a cause of terrorist attacks.
CULTURE WARS AT THE COLLEGE OF EUROPE: The Bruges home of future Eurocrats, a beacon of the European peace project, is the site of a brewing culture war. None other than Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker delivered the opening speech of the current academic year at the College of Europe, telling students “Now is not the time for division.” It seems some of them forgot to take notes as things started to get nasty when groups of students from different European countries took turns to create national displays in the college canteen.
The Benelux delegation is said to have promised “Belgian chocolate, Dutch drinking games, Luxembourgish potatoes and a speech from Paul Magnette,” according to Beata Thor, a Swedish student. However, their display included King Leopold II, the “Butcher of Congo,” without explanation. The college’s student newspaper called them out on this, leading to an apology of sorts.
“Millions of people were killed, injured or saw their living conditions severely worsened. The reason for all this human misery was a never-ending imperialistic quest for power and money,” admitted the Benelux contingent. Still, Leopold is a significant historical figure, so they included him anyway. Next up: nasty messages on the college’s Facebook group. Stayed tuned for more.
OVER THE TOP: Playbook was alarmed to read a trade union press release this week suggesting Europe is not only burning, but burning while the Committee of the Regions fiddles. The CoR has never
before been accorded such importance, so we decided to investigate.
According to Unite Syndicale we are “in turmoil” (a very Trumpian phrase) as “southern Europe borders on war zones” and the European idea is challenged like never before (excluding the World Wars, presumably). And through it all “the Committee of the Regions fiddles around with jobs for the boys!”
“As Europe struggles to survive, the CoR struggles to rush through a bogus internal ‘competition’ exclusively reserved for its Mexican army of political appointees,” the union raged. No, that’s not another Trump insult, but a French expression to describe a team with an abundance of administrators. On the wider point, Playbook agrees that job vacancies ought to be advertised. But surely the wider question is: Why does the EU spend tens of millions on the Committee of the Regions, without really listening to it?
SEPARATED AT BIRTH: Commission spokesperson Mina Andreeva, and pop superstar Britney Spears.

BY THE NUMBERS:
357,000,000,000: The bill European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi says he’ll present Italy if it leaves the euro.
25: The number of MEPs who agreed in the International Trade Committee to approve the EU-Canada trade deal.
15: The number of trade committee MEPs against the Canada deal.
46: Days until the Dutch general election.
WHO’S UP:
Martin Schulz: He is expected to be announced as the Socialist challenger to Angela Merkel in Germany’s national election in September.
Benoît Hamon: The French Socialist won the first round of the center-left presidential primary and is likely to clinch the nomination this Sunday.
WHO’S DOWN:
François Fillon: The news that his wife Pénélope was on the payroll of his office between 1992 and 2002 might not help his poll numbers for the French presidential bid.
Sean Spicer: Managed to anger and confuse nearly everyone with his first briefing as the U.S. presidential spokesperson.
BREXITOMETER: Now that Britain’s PM Theresa May has indicated her desire to leave the single market, there’s no looking back. But there have been bumps in the road to a hard Brexit, as May’s government lost the Article 50 court case and she bowed to demands from MPs to set out her Brexit strategy in a white paper.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “He was using alternative facts.” — President Trump’s adviser Kellyanne Conway explaining how presidential spokesman Sean Spicer came to believe that crowds for Trump’s inauguration were the biggest ever.
GAFFES AND LAUGHS
No gender equality for bees: The Parliament’s women’s rights committee this week voted on a resolution calling for EU funds to be spent promoting gender equality, which triggered a backlash from those who think EU funds could be better spent elsewhere. Beatrix von Storch, a senior member of the far-right Alternative for Germany, who, on being appointed to the committee in 2014, swiftly called for it to be scrapped, proposed an amendment that didn’t make the final cut: “Not all EU policy areas can be gender mainstreamed, as, for example, the EU policy on honey bees, because there is only one female bee queen per colony and not two.”
Maltese bird hunting is no laughing matter: Here’s what Vicky Ford MEP said when Malta’s Economy Minister Christian Cardona started sniggering when she flagged the plight of the birds that Maltese hunters shoot: “Minister, please stop shooting the birds in the spring … Don’t laugh. Stop it. Stop it. Do not do it. Do not do it when you’re holding the presidency of the European Council. Please. Thank you.”
First published on POLITICO.eu, Belgium, January 27, 2017 | By Rytis Daukantas
 
First published in Süddeutsche Zeitung, Germany, January 23, 2017 | By Oliver Schopf
 
First published in The New York Times, U.S., January 25, 2017 | By Chappatte
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, Jordan, January 25, 2017 | By Emad Hajjaj
 
First published in The Columbus Dispatch, U.S., January 24, 2017 | By Nate Beeler
 

First published in The Columbia Daily Tribune, U.S., January 24, 2017 | By John Darkow
 
First published in A Tarde, Brazil, January 20, 2017 | By Osmani Simanca
 
First published in The Scranton Times-Tribune, U.S., January 26, 2017 | By John Cole
 
WASHINGTON — This was the moment Theresa May came face to face with the great American bear.
Donald Trump was courteous, calm and funny as he held his first press conference with a world leader since becoming president — pulling faces, joking with reporters and repeatedly praising a “most special relationship” with the U.K., ticking the same diplomatic box every U.S. leader feels compelled to tick.
He looked pleased as May announced the Queen had invited him to Britain later this year. The pair had already bonded over a bust of Winston Churchill, returned to the Oval Office after an eight-year sojourn in the less photographed corridors of the White House.
And yet the president was defiantly, unmistakably himself. This was no watered down Trump, tamed by the responsibilities of office.
When May reaffirmed Britain’s commitment to sanctions on Russia, Trump did not. When May announced the U.S. president was “100 percent” committed to NATO, Trump muttered “true” but nothing more.
On torture, he repeated his view that it worked. On Brexit, he said it was “fantastic” that Britain was finally “free and independent.” The U.K. prime minister smiled at all the right moments, and will be pleased with Trump’s warm words for Britain, but this was uncomfortable stuff.
It is, however, her new reality. Over 48 hours in the U.S., the U.K. prime minister has indelibly tied her fortunes to those of the new man in the White House.
Here are five takeaways from the opening scene of this most unlikely of political romances.
If May came to Washington looking for reassurances on key diplomatic differences, Trump’s press conference performance must be chalked up as a loss.
May managed to extract one concession — on NATO — but only just. There was no commitment on trade, notably warm words for Russia and praise for torture. In Britain’s eyes: Not good.
In her opening remarks, May pulled the equivalent of a diplomatic fast one, shoehorning in Trump’s private reassurance about his commitment to the NATO military alliance. That she had to do that perhaps says more about Trump’s real feelings on the issue.
When pressed by U.S. reporters about his views on Russia, Trump was defiant. “If we can have a great relationship with Russia and China and with all countries I’m all for that. If we can, that would be a positive.”
He went further. If relations between Washington and the Kremlin are as good as those between the U.S. and U.K. that would be great, he said.
British prime ministers aren’t used to hearing that. A special relationship isn’t so special if everyone has one.
“That was your choice for a question? There goes that relationship!”
This was Trump’s response to a humdinger of a question from the BBC’s Political Editor Laura Kuenssberg, who pointed out his controversial views on Muslims, abortion and torture weren’t exactly popular in some parts of the U.K.
Trump’s response was funny — but even more so, perhaps, because it contained an element of truth.
Downing Street clearly believes Trump responds well to praise and carefully choreographed every element of this week’s trip to the U.S. accordingly.
May went out of her way to hail his “stunning” election victory, declaring her delight at being able to congratulate him in person.
But for the next four years it’s clear there is going to be a lot of treading on diplomatic eggshells.
Trump was clear in his view that America is being ripped off and that he is the strong leader it needs to stand up for itself again, whether Britain likes it or not.
As May arrived at the White House, driven past a procession of American flags and greeted by the president on the steps of the West Wing, it was like a regional governor returning to Rome to greet the new emperor.
French presidential hopeful Emmanuel Macron has said May’s tour of the U.S. exposes Britain’s status as a “vassal” state of the U.S. empire.
But May is no pushover and was determined to make it known, contradicting the president on Russian sanctions and insisting she will not shy away from confrontation. The U.K. prime minister’s visit was no Washington sideshow either. The vast East Room in the White House was packed with U.S. and British reporters, camera crews and TV anchors.
But the interest was clearly not so much on what May had to say, but how this most unpredictable of politicians was going to behave — and what he was going to do about Mexico, Putin and China.
The U.K. may well get its special relationship with Trump, but it remains unclear whether this will have any impact on his wider behavior.
As the two leaders walked from the East Room press conference down the White House colonnade to the West Wing for lunch, Trump took the British prime minister by the hand, patting it slightly.
The president is unlikely to try that with Vladimir Putin.
May looked untroubled but it is unlikely to be the image she wants beamed back to Britain. She wanted warm but businesslike. This was not it. Despite that image, the talks went down well with the British press: “Trump blesses Britain,” said the Times. “Love-in at the White House” was the Daily Mail’s front page headline.
The personal chemistry between the two leaders is crucial. But the relationship between their top teams is almost as important on a functional, day-to-day level.
At the press conference all the main players were in the room.
Steve Bannon, the president’s ideological inspiration, came in smiling and shaking hands with all May’s top team, including ambassador Kim Darroch, whom he appeared to know well.
Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager during his run for president, was second row back. Sean Spicer barked instructions before the two leaders emerged.
The night before, May held a drinks reception at the British ambassador’s residence, giving her the chance to speak privately with most of Trump’s key cabinet appointments including Pentagon chief James “Mad Dog” Mattis and Wilbur Ross — the man who, as Trump’s nominee for commerce secretary, will help negotiate the U.K.-U.S. trade deal on which May has placed so much credit.
The two teams were also present at the White House talks Friday and for lunch with the two leaders afterwards (they had blue cheese salad, beef shortribs with potato purée and winter vegetables and a salted caramel creme brûlée).
From ribs in Washington with one strongman leader to coffee in Ankara with another.
Direct from talks with president Trump in the White House, May jets overnight to Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
What either man does domestically appears of little interest to May. On the plane out to the U.S. May was asked what she would do to represent Britain’s Muslim community in talks with Trump. Her reply involved everything that she could do for them at home. Pressed on whether she had a duty to represent British muslims, she shot back that she was in Washington to represent all of the United Kingdom.
To May, it’s the national interest above all else. Human rights can wait.
In her speech to Republican leaders in Philadelphia Thursday she declared the end of liberal interventionism. On Friday she declared Mexico’s problems with Trump a matter for Mexico and Trump and none of her business. On Saturday she will begin deepening the relationship with Erdoğan regardless of his increasingly authoritarian turn.
In a world of strong men, turmoil, Brexit and Trump, Britain’s second female prime minister is prepared to work with whoever looks likely to make the U.K. more secure, from both terror and economic shocks.
This article has been updated to clarify Donald Trump’s reaction to Theresa May’s NATO comments.
WASHINGTON — Donald Trump and Theresa May discussed their continued support for NATO at talks in Washington Friday, with the British prime minister saying her counterpart was “100 percent behind” the military alliance.
“On defense and security cooperation, we’re united in our recognition of NATO as the bulwark of our collective defense, and today we’ve reaffirmed our unshakable commitment to this alliance,” May said.
“Mr. President, I think you said, you confirmed that you’re 100 percent behind NATO,” she added, turning to face Trump.
Trump has repeatedly called into question America’s commitment to NATO, suggesting that other nations in the alliance have not sufficiently carried their own weight, leaving much of the work to the U.S. He has also called NATO “obsolete.”
“We’re also discussing the importance of NATO continuing to ensure it is as equipped to fight terrorism and cyber warfare as it is to fight more conventional forms of war,” May said. “I’ve agreed to continue my efforts to encourage my fellow European leaders to deliver on their commitments to spend 2 percent of their GDP on defense so that the burden is more fairly shared. It’s only by investing properly in our defense that we can ensure we’re properly equipped to face our shared challenges together.”
Speaking to reporters at the White House, May said the two leaders talked about trade and that a trade deal would be in the interests of both parties.
She also revealed that Trump accepted an invitation from the Queen to visit the United Kingdom later this year, although no date was given.
Asked about Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, Trump said an “independent” U.K. was a “blessing” for the world.
“I think Brexit is going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” he said. “I think when it irons out, you’re going to have your own identity, and you are going to have the people that you want in your country and be able to make free trade deals without having somebody watching you and what you are doing.”
Trump said he predicted Brexit and said he was scorned in the press for making the prediction.
“I was scorned, and I believed it was going to happen because people want to know who is coming into their country and control their own trade in various other things,” he said.
Asked by a reporter about the future of sanctions on Russia, Trump said it was “too early” to talk about the topic. He is scheduled to speak with Vladimir Putin on Saturday.
“We’ll see what happens, as far as the sanctions. Very early to be talking about that,” Trump said.
Asked about his past praise of Putin, Trump insisted he doesn’t feel “good, bad or indifferent” about the leader or his country.
“I don’t know the gentleman. I hope we have a fantastic relationship,” Trump said. “That’s possible, and it’s also possible that we won’t. We will see what happens.”
May said the U.K. wants sanctions on Russia to continue until the Minsk agreement is implemented.
The beginning of the visit was overshadowed by Trump saying that torture “works.” Asked to clarify his position on waterboarding and other types of torture, Trump said his defense secretary, James Mattis, has said he does not believe in torture. Trump said he does not necessarily agree with Mattis, but the retired general would override the president.
LONDON — The man mentioned as Donald Trump’s possible pick for ambassador to the European Union wants other EU countries to follow Britain’s example and hold votes on their membership of the bloc.
Ted Malloch, an economist and former diplomat with ties to the U.S. president’s inner circle, said that while Trump did not have a “formal policy” of speeding the EU’s demise, he wanted to see EU countries to “come to a decision themselves” about their continued membership of the single market, the single currency and the political union.
In comments to POLITICO, Malloch voiced his own support for any EU member state that wanted to hold an In-Out referendum modeled on the U.K.’s Brexit vote.
“I would like to see referenda put to European people so that they could make their own determination,” he said.
“It seems to be that some of the elections that are forthcoming in the next short period of time could lead to that kind of voice in different European countries,” he added, noting the coming elections in France and the Netherlands.
Although he has not been nominated, Malloch is seen as a candidate to be Trump’s pick for ambassador to the EU. He was interviewed by the president’s team in New York earlier this month. Should he be nominated, he would need Senate confirmation.
In recent days Malloch has launched a salvo against the EU’s leaders, telling the BBC he would “short the euro” and predicting that the single currency “could collapse” in the next 18 months. On Thursday, in another BBC appearance, he compared the EU to the Soviet Union, adding that the bloc needed “taming,” and said Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission president, had been “a very adequate mayor, I think, of some city in Luxembourg and maybe he should go back and do that again.”
Malloch, a professor at Henley Business School in the U.K., said Trump wanted to deal with countries on bilateral terms, adding that the president had an “animus against supranational organizations” because they “lead to the demise of sovereign nation states.”
He said the election of Trump, the Brexit vote and changes taking place in other Western democracies represented a “pendulum swing” in world politics on a par with the fall of the Berlin Wall.
“In our generation this is the significant pendulum swing, toward a more state-centric, bilateral world,” he said.
“Look at Europe,” he added. “It is really a collection of different European cultural identities, languages, cuisines, cultures and the European Union has not been able to snuff those out. Last time I checked very few people were speaking Esperanto.”
He said that post-war international institutions — with the exception of NATO — needed to be “reinvented.”
“Some of them will continue to exist and should, but they need to be reinvented because, frankly, they’re 70 years old and things that are old are like cars that are antiques. They are interesting to look at but not particularly drivable,” he said.
The Trump administration is preparing executive orders to reduce the U.S. role at — and funding for — the United Nations, and leading to a review of American participation in multilateral treaties, according to a report in the New York Times earlier this week .
“The criticism of those [multilateral] organizations, particularly in Western democracies, has been pronounced for some years,” Malloch said.
“Occasionally you have to do what companies do, which is radically restructure,” he added. “Or occasionally you actually go out of business and start a new business. Likewise, in parallel here what you have to do is start some new organizations with a different function, different purpose, fit for the future and not the past.”
However, he said he believes Trump was being “more and more persuaded that NATO is not so obsolete”, and that it could be “revived” with a greater focus on counter-terror operations and cybersecurity — a departure from its historic role as a counterbalance to Russia.
He said he expected U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May to raise the importance of NATO’s continued role during her visit to Washington.
Turkey on Friday threatened to back out of its migration deal with the European Union, after Greece refused to extradite soldiers Ankara claims were involved in last July’s attempted coup, the BBC reported.
On Thursday, Greece’s supreme court ruled against the extradition of eight Turkish soldiers who fled to Greece by helicopter a day after the coup attempt. Erdoğan’s demand that the men be returned to stand trial in Turkey has strained relations between Ankara and Athens.
“We demanded that the eight soldiers be tried again,” Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu told state broadcaster TRT Haber on Friday, calling the court’s decision “political” and accusing Greece of “protecting and hosting coup plotters.”
He added: “There is a migration deal we signed, including a readmission deal with Greece, and we are evaluating what we can do, including the cancellation of the readmission deal.”
The Greek court’s decision is final and cannot be appealed, but the Turkish justice ministry has made a new extradition request, according to Turkish state-run news agency Anadolu.
The soldiers have denied any involvement in the coup attempt and said their lives would be in danger if they were forced to return to Turkey, where President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has led a massive crackdown against alleged political dissidents and proposed reinstating the death penalty.
Under Ankara’s deal with the EU, which came into effect in March 2016, Turkey agreed to take back migrants who cross into Greece if they do not apply for asylum or their claim is rejected by Greek authorities.
Erdoğan previously threatened to break off the deal and open “the border gates” last November, when members of the European Parliament voted to freeze talks on Turkey’s EU membership in reaction to the president’s “disproportionate response” to the coup attempt.
Despite growing clamor for British MEPs to keep their mouths shut and their heads down as the U.K. heads to the EU exit, many remain in senior posts after a reshuffle in the European Parliament.
Not kicking out the Brits when there was an opportunity to do so has attracted criticism, and prompted hints of potential conflicts of interest and speculation that the backroom deals that handed the presidency of the Parliament to Antonio Tajani also saw one British MEP stay on in a top job.
The worry among many non-Britons in the Parliament is that EU policy could be taken hostage by lawmakers from a country that will not have to live with the consequences.
When the Parliament this week reshuffled its leadership halfway through its five-year mandate, the Brits were left unscathed, with three of them — Vicky Ford, Linda McAvan and Claude Moraes — remaining as chairs of powerful committees. Others, including Kay Swinburne from the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), remain as group coordinators on influential committees.
Tanja Fajon, a Slovenian Socialist, said she fully supported the re-election of Moraes as chair of the Civil Liberties and Justice Committee (known by the acronym LIBE) because “we saw no argument that Brexit and his chairing of LIBE would be somehow linked or the latter compromised.”
Not everyone was so positive.
“Many Brits come from political groups that wanted to preserve their chairmanship positions,” said Constance Le Grip of the center-right European People’s Party (EPP) group. “There has been a lot of fatalism and lack of political coherence on that issue.”
Parliament sources said Ford kept her job as head of the Internal Market Committee as part of the deal that helped Tajani take over the president’s chair from Martin Schulz. Tajani’s EPP struck deals with the liberal ALDE group and Ford’s ECR. Their support for Tajani will have come at a price.
The ECR’s price, a Parliament official said, was keeping control of the committee and also getting an ECR member in Tajani’s cabinet.
Senior positions are supposed to be distributed based on the size of groups and nationalities. That’s good news for the U.K. as there are 73 British MEPs — only Germany and France have more European lawmakers, while Italy has the same number. And those 73 have the same rights as before the Brexit vote, and will continue to do so until the U.K. leaves the bloc.
“People in the Parliament have accepted that until the U.K. leaves, British MEPs have the same rights as anyone else,” said an official from the EPP, the largest group in the assembly.
Ford said removing her would have sent a bad message.
“If this role had been removed from the U.K. Conservatives it would have been perceived to have set a tone that is markedly less cooperative and collegiate than that which (European Commission chief Brexit negotiator) Michel Barnier and (British Prime Minister) Theresa May have been calling for,” she said.
“No one stood against me or against my deputy chair (fellow British MEP) Catherine Stihler. All across the Parliament, from left to right, members came to tell me this was because they wanted to send a clear signal that they want to maintain close amicable cooperation with the U.K. during this period and after the U.K. leaves the EU.”
Le Grip said a minority of MEPs, including those from her own French delegation in the EPP, had raised the issue of keeping Brits in plum jobs in internal meetings. But after Tajani’s election, negotiations on key positions were carried out by “a minority of people who have been incapable of having a political perspective,” she said.
“British MEPs are no longer like others,” she added.
Moving out the Brits has long been debated among MEPs but was “completely set aside in these elections for political reasons,” said Sergio Cofferati, an Italian member of the Socialists and Democrats. “It’s not just unfair, it’s also totally useless.”
Both Le Grip and Cofferati say keeping Brits in leadership positions might increase the risk of conflicts of interest, especially after May announced her intention to leave the single market.
Ford will continue leading a committee that scrutinizes single market rules while her country is preparing to leave the single market. Moraes will chair a committee that oversees justice issues even as Britain prepares to step out from under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
This article has been updated to remove an incorrect reference to Nicholas Simoncini as a British assistant to an MEP. 
LONDON — As someone who spends days churning out words for columns and foreign dispatches, I like to liven up copy with a few flamboyant flourishes, splashes of color and perhaps a little alliteration. But on the rare occasions I tried to do the same with speeches for former British Prime Minister David Cameron, he would cross out my most creative suggestions since he wanted his words to reflect his character: calm, uncomplicated and businesslike.
Cameron wasn’t one of the great political orators of our age, but he knew how to press the right buttons — like his successor. Prime Minister Theresa May’s public persona is diligent and dogged, trading off her air of quiet competence. She comes across as the nation’s headmistress, and her speeches reflect this no-nonsense approach. She marshals her facts, structures her arguments, struggles with jokes, makes points with laser-sharp precision and rattles out the lines. She gets an A for effort and hard-work — but perhaps just a B for delivery.
And yet, just as her fashion style is classic with subtle flashes of quirky character, so it is with her speeches; they often display a similar sense of the unexpected. May uses many of the boringly-familiar clutter of political speeches, from clichés about change and “brighter futures” to artful mentions of “ordinary working people,” drawing on her ordinary background as vicar’s daughter. She tends to avoid anecdotes but likes a nod to history.
But every now and then, May’s careful cadence is disrupted by a burst of exuberance, producing orations that have helped define her as a politician. This was how she grabbed national attention 15 years ago with a superb speech pointing out harsh truths to a complacent Conservative Party. “Let’s not kid ourselves. There’s a way to go before we can return to government,” she told the shocked audience at a party conference after her appointment as chairman. “Our base is too narrow and so, occasionally, are our sympathies. You know what some people call us — the nasty party.”
Three years ago, when she was home secretary, she stunned a conference of the police federation with a savage speech condemning their “contempt for the public.” After listing a host of police failures, from racism on the streets to the Hillsborough football disaster, she ordered them to change, then left the podium to dismayed silence. It was riveting to watch, as May fired off fireworks in her sober tones. Once again, this underlined the complexity and occasional courage of a politician often dismissed as a technocrat and renowned in Westminster for her caution.
* * *
Now, May has taken the keys to Downing Street. Having done so, she faces the toughest task of any prime minister since Winston Churchill, as she attempts to extricate Britain from the European Union while handling massive economic, political and social fallout. Every mistake will be magnified in a divided nation, and the potential downsides of wrong decisions are huge. She must do this against a portentous backdrop of populist insurgency and dwindling faith in democracy.
And yet, earlier this month, at a time when walls are being erected from Europe to the United States, she went to Davos and mounted a stirring defense of globalization. It was easy to poke holes in the argument and point out flaws in her “Global Britain” arguments, given that her country is leaving the world’s biggest trading block for uncertain waters. But there was clear passion in her words and exultant pride in a nation deriving strength from diversity. “We are a multi-racial, multi-ethnic, multi-faith democracy, and we’re proud of it,” she said.
This week, she crossed the Atlantic to meet the bigoted billionaire who seized the world’s most powerful job. It is disconcerting to see appeasement of this dismal man — a British prime minister racing to his side, spouting the usual nonsense about special relationships in a desperate search for a post-Brexit trade deal. Yet, note again how May used bold language and colorful phrases to cement her mission. She delivered not just dubious claims of renewal at a time when both Britain and the United States are moving in regressive directions, but she also offered bold talk of two nations “working together to defeat evil” and claimed that they hold out “the promise of freedom, liberty and the rights of man.”
Her speech to U.S. Republicans on Thursday was a tour de force, arguably the most important by a British prime minister in that nation since then Prime Minister Tony Blair promoted the cause of liberal interventionism. May’s speech struck a different tone, repudiating Blair’s corrosive stance while paying homage to “America’s destiny to lead the free world.”
What May delivered was an assured statement of intent, subtly shifting ground on issues such as Iran and Israel while underlining the need for NATO and European security. “We should not jeopardize the freedoms that President Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher brought to Eastern Europe by accepting President Putin’s claim that it is now in his sphere of influence.’
It is hard to think of two more different characters than Donald Trump and Theresa May. One is a brash American reality television star who has lived his life in the headlines and suddenly exploded in the most dramatic style onto frontline politics. The other an enigmatic suburban woman with little time for small talk who rose slowly to the top of British politics.
Yet, as she has shown throughout her career, May is unafraid of deploying punchy words — phrases that might seem more suited to American politicians and flamboyant speeches to achieve her aims. Classic with just a twist of color, from kitten heels to killer lines.
Ian Birrell is contributing editor for the Mail on Sunday and a former speechwriter for David Cameron.
MADRID — The city council of Barcelona, led by leftist mayor Ada Colau, passed a controversial bill Friday banning all new hospitality establishments in the center and imposing strict limits on new hotels and similar businesses in the whole city.
The city of 1.6 million citizens receives around 30 million visitors a year and locals complain this has led to overcrowded streets and unaffordable property prices.
But Colau’s plan, which had been under discussion since March last year, generated fierce opposition from the tourism industry.
The new measure divides the Catalan capital into four areas, each with its own regulations. The first zone, which comprises the historical center, is designated for “natural decrease,” meaning any tourist accommodation that closes down won’t be replaced.
New establishments will only be allowed on the outskirts of the city, with the plan setting a limit of 11,000 new beds in the whole of Barcelona — equivalent to 7 percent of current capacity.
After becoming mayor in 2015, Colau froze all new licenses for tourism businesses and launched an all-out assault on unregistered tourism apartments and online companies such as Airbnb.
Colau said in an interview with a local TV station this week that she wants Barcelona to continue to be a tourism destination, but argued that the situation was completely out of control and required action.
Some traditional areas, like the Gothic Quarter, have lost nearly half of their population in the past decade and now host more visitors than permanent inhabitants, according to data provided by city hall.
The plan, which is expected to come into effect in two weeks, was approved with the support of four leftist parties. Centrist and right-wing councilors voted against it.
“This plan is a grave mistake which will have economic and judicial consequences for the city,” said Jordi Marti, a councilor from Catalan President Carles Puigdemont’s pro-independence party.
Five organizations representing much of the hospitality and retail businesses in the city criticized the plan this week and accused the local government of “demonizing” tourism.
“The effects of the last [economic] crisis in Barcelona would have been much worse without tourism’s contribution. How are we going to manage the next one?” they wrote in a joint statement.
“Was she a salesman before going into politics?” one impressed American TV reporter asked assembled British hacks after listening to Theresa May’s speech at the Marriott conference centre in downtown Philadelphia yesterday. Nope, she’s only ever worked in finance and politics came the reply.
But it was an astute observation.
In her address to the assembled Republican members of Congress, May coated surprisingly strong warnings against U.S. isolationism, deals with Putin and liberal interventionism in a sugary sweet casing of praise.
Trump — despised and dismissed in equal measure across the EU — represented the bold resurgence of American pride and strength, May said to cheers.
In 2016, the United States and Britain had not disgraced themselves, as is the common view across the Continent, but had found their voice, the British PM said. She reached out “as a fellow Conservative” and praised “the principles of nationhood, family, economic prudence, patriotism — and putting power in the hands of the people.”
The speech was almost the inverse of her major Brexit address in London last week, when she cleverly coated a series of potentially troublesome compromises in a hard shell of patriotic determination, reaffirming her pledge to take back control of immigration without damaging the economy.
The lesson is that May, like Trump, is a salesman as well as a politician — some would say the two are one and the same.
Over the next two years she must sell Britain to America, Trump to Britain, hard Brexit to the public and a compromise to Brussels. Quite a sell.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Lack of experience in German politics won’t matter in the race to unseat Chancellor Angela Merkel, Martin Schulz said Friday.
Following his surprise nomination as the leader of the Social Democrats and the party’s candidate for chancellor earlier this week, Schulz told Der Spiegel he is prepared to go head to head with Merkel.
“I’ve worked alongside Angela Merkel for a longer time than almost anyone else in the party,” the former European Parliament president said, adding that he had “a chance to study her” and “get to know her.”
Schulz, who has no experience in federal politics and spent the past two decades in Brussels, said he believed his distance from Berlin’s political establishment would count in his favor.
“The daily life of politics does not happen in the Bundestag,” Schulz, who spent 11 years as mayor of Würselen, a small town in North Rhine-Westphalia, said. “It happens on a local level, in city hall. And I know more about that than many of my colleagues in Berlin.”
Schulz said his goal was not to become vice chancellor in a grand coalition, but to clinch the top job: “I want to become chancellor,” he said.
Former SPD leader Sigmar Gabriel surprised many party members by resigning Tuesday. According to a recent poll, 79 percent of SPD voters back his decision to stand down. Almost 70 percent of them believe Schulz will bring new life into the party ahead of the vote.
Schulz will step down as a member of the European Parliament assembly next Thursday, an aide to Schulz told POLITICO.
PARIS — François Fillon’s bid for the French presidency is already suffering from the fallout of a scandal over disputed payments to his wife.
According to a poll carried out since the scandal broke, 61 percent of French voters have a “negative” or “very negative” view of the conservative former prime minister, while the proportion of “positive views” of Fillon plummeted to 39 percent from 54 percent before “Penelopegate” became top news.
Fillon, who until recently was the hands-down favorite to win May’s presidential election, is struggling to draw a line under the scandal. On Thursday, he was placed under preliminary investigation on suspicion that he may have abused public funds by paying his wife €500,000 over eight years for a parliament job that she did not actually do.
Later the same day, he tried to fight back against the allegations in a prime time TV interview, saying he had provided evidence to a financial prosecutor proving that his wife, Penelope, had indeed carried out work for which she was paid. “She has edited my speeches, stood in for me at events when I couldn’t be there, done newspaper reviews,” said Fillon, who did not deny having paid his British wife.
But his statement did not lift the black cloud that has descended over Fillon’s campaign.
Worse, even Fillon’s half-hearted attempts at transparency during that interview are back-firing. He volunteered on TF1 the fact that he had once employed on specific missions two of his children, “who were lawyers,” when he was a French senator (in the years before he became prime minister in 2007).
The next day, the daily Libération noted that the two children, Marie and Charles, were only students at the time and only became lawyers later. Furthermore, they specialized in areas that have little to do with the usual concerns of a French MP.
So Fillon now faces questions on what the”missions” were, and how much he paid his student children.
During his primary campaign, the 62-year-old repeatedly said politicians facing serious investigations should not run for office. At the time, Fillon’s remark was targeted at former president Nicolas Sarkozy, a rival for the center-right nomination who was under formal investigation.
Now it has come back to haunt him. On TV, Fillon said he would terminate his campaign if the probe resulted in him being placed under formal investigation.
Not all preliminary investigations — an early evidence-gathering phase of the French judicial system — lead to formal investigations. But they can drag on for months with evidence frequently leaked to the press, a serious liability for Fillon.
Adding to his troubles, a journalist who carried out research for a biography on Fillon, and met with members of his family including his wife, claimed on Twitter that she had been threatened by members of a certain political campaign who left messages on her phone.
“To the political team that is threatening me on my voicemail, I hate threats and I do not give in to pressure. That’s a first warning,” tweeted Christine Kelly, whose biography “Le secret et l’ambition” (“The Secret and the ambition”) was published in 2007.
Kelly was on Friday due to provide testimony to the financial prosecutor investigating Fillon’s case.
With the scandal just three days old, Odoxa’s poll is the first sign that Penelopegate is having an impact on the public view of Fillon, so far the favorite for the presidency. It also highlighted widespread frustration with the cozy practice of hiring spouses in parliament, with 76 percent of respondents saying they would like to see the practice banned.
Standing by to reap the benefits of Fillon’s troubles are his two main rivals for the presidency: National Front chief Marine Le Pen, and former economy minister Emmanuel Macron, who is running as an independent on a center-left, pro-European platform.
Le Pen, herself under investigation over suspicions that she misused assistants at the European Parliament, has pointedly avoided commenting on Fillon’s affairs, except once when she called the original report in Le Canard Enchainé a “stink bomb.” But the scandal’s subtext — that a former prime minister was free to direct public money toward his own wife without scrutiny — plays directly into her arguments that France’s elites are corrupt and detached from the problems of regular people.
Macron, who of late has been catching up to Fillon in polls, did not comment on the report.
However, with his liberal economic views and centrist positioning, Macron is poised to pick up middle-ground conservatives who were drawn to Fillon thanks to his stance on fiscal prudence. The 39-year-old former Rothschilds investment banker has also sold himself as an “anti-system” candidate, with the implication that he is not part of the establishment clique that made Fillon’s payments possible.
An Ipsos-Steria poll conducted before Penelopegate put Macron in third place behind Fillon and Le Pen, with 17-21 percent of the vote ahead of the election’s first round, depending on which other candidates participate.
Macron’s campaign has been gathering momentum amid weak interest in a left-wing primary election whose final round is on Sunday.
In that contest, former Prime Minister Manuel Valls and his ex-education minister, Benoît Hamon, are vying for a left-wing presidential nomination, with the latter expected to win. Both Valls and Hamon have called for “greater transparency” in public life since Penelopegate broke.
Whoever wins is not expected to make it past the first round of the presidential election.
This article was updated on Saturday with additional information.
Pierre Briançon contributed reporting.
BERLIN — Former European Parliament President Martin Schulz will step down as a member of the assembly next Thursday, an aide to Schulz told POLITICO.
Schulz is moving into German politics after 23 years as an MEP.
On Sunday he will be named the Social Democratic Party’s (SPD) candidate to be chancellor by the party leadership, with a coronation party congress to be held in March. Schulz will also take over the party chairmanship from current leader Sigmar Gabriel.
Gabriel took over the German Foreign Ministry on Friday from Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who is set to become the country’s president on February 12.
Gabriel on Tuesday announced that he would not run against Chancellor Angela Merkel. According to party sources, the main reason was poor polling numbers for the SPD in recent months.
In a new poll by Germany’s public ZDF television published Friday, the SPD was on 24 percent, up three percentage points from the last such poll, while Merkel’s Christian Democrats were unchanged at 36 percent. Schulz figured high up on a list of the 10 most popular German politicians, coming second after Steinmeier.
Asked who they would choose if they could elect the chancellor directly (they can’t), poll participants preferred Merkel (44 percent) over Schulz (40 percent).
It’s President Donald Trump’s diplomatic debut. And the world is holding its breath.
Trump’s meeting on Friday with British Prime Minister Theresa May — his first sit-down with a foreign leader as president — comes with high stakes for the normally cozy “special relationship” with the two allies. It also represents a major test for an erratic and untested politician on the global stage, a day after he inflamed relations with Mexico’s president on Twitter.
“The unpredictability of it is unnerving. She does not know how it’s going to go,” said Julianne Smith, a former national security aide to Vice President Joe Biden.
Foreign governments, which have been bewildered by Trump and unclear about his intentions, will be monitoring the meeting for clues. Will he go off-script and embarrass May, or put his guest on the spot? Or will his White House staff choreograph the event smoothly?
“We’ll be watching this meeting very closely” to judge its execution, said one official from a major U.S. ally whose leader will likely meet with Trump soon.
European officials are carefully watching to see how the leader of a country that recently voted to leave the European Union plays her relationship with a new U.S. administration that has shown sympathy with right-wing populists movements on the continent.
The differences between Washington and London often don’t go much farther than pronunciation. But as May’s forceful remarks Thursday to congressional Republicans in Philadelphia made clear, she and Trump may be speaking different languages when it comes to dealing with Russia and the future of the European Union.
“It’s a trap to be too aligned with Trump” right now, said a European diplomat. “This guy is a total unknown.”
“At the same time, it’s difficult for her to be too independent,” given Britain’s looming departure from the EU, he added.
Privately, the British leader may not relish sitting down with Trump, whose condemnations of Muslims she has called “divisive” and whose coarse talk about women she labeled “unacceptable.”
But both the White House and Downing Street are sending positive signals about the meeting, and diplomatic insiders in both Washington and London said that the two leaders both stand to gain from a smooth and friendly confab. Trump is eager to show that he is a credible world leader. May wants to demonstrate that Britain’s strategically invaluable alliance with the U.S. endures in a changing world order.
May began seeking Trump’s favor even before he was sworn in. Officials from her Conservative Party government have paid regular visits to Trump Tower — including Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, who came despite having said last year that he was “genuinely worried” Trump might become president and joked that he would avoid Manhattan due to “the real risk of meeting Donald Trump.”
Most striking was a kick to the shins her government delivered to Secretary of State John Kerry in December after he criticized Israeli settlement building in a speech. May’s spokesman called the speech, which infuriated Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, not “appropriate.”
That startled Kerry aides but pleased Trump officials — especially Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, an Orthodox Jew and strong Netanyahu supporter.
May’s remarks to congressional Republicans sent more positive signals to Trump, including a passage that drew parallels between Trump’s election and her country’s “Brexit” vote to leave the EU.
Just as the U.S. is “renew[ing] your nation just as we renew ours,” May said, adding: “We have the opportunity to lead, together, again.”
But May is hardly in perfect alignment with Trump.
When President Barack Obama first met with May’s predecessor, David Cameron, in March 2009, Obama noted the “shared set of values and assumptions between us.”
Eight years later, that set is substantially reduced.
While May is critical of the EU, for instance, she does not hope for its demise the way Trump adviser Stephen Bannon does. “It remains in our interests, and those of the wider world, that the EU should succeed,” May said.
Although May is overseeing Brexit’s implementation, she opposed her nation’s decision to withdraw from the EU, which Bannon and other nationalist thinkers denounce for smothering state sovereignty and heritage.
“The days of the United States backing the European project are over,” said Nile Gardiner, director of The Heritage Foundation’s Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom.
May’s address to Republicans also urged caution on the question of rebooting relations with Moscow — something Trump has called one of his top foreign policy goals. “We should not jeopardize the freedoms that President [Ronald] Reagan and Mrs. [Margaret] Thatcher brought to Eastern Europe by accepting President Putin’s claim that it is now in his sphere of influence,” May said.
The British leader also hinted at her discomfort with Trump’s rhetoric about Muslims. While calling for a campaign to defeat the Islamic radicalism, she added that “we should always be careful to distinguish between this extreme and hateful ideology, and the peaceful religion of Islam and the hundreds of millions of its adherents” — echoing Obama administration language that many conservatives found too conciliatory.
The White House and No. 10 Downing Street have each signaled that the leaders will talk about a new trade deal between Washington and London, one of many bilateral agreements Britain will need to strike in the aftermath of its departure from the EU’s economic network.
The subject of trade also has political resonance: During a visit to London last April, President Barack Obama warned that Britain would be “in the back of the queue” for a trade deal with Washington if it voted to leave the E.U.
Trump clearly doesn’t agree, and appears happy to reward British voters for defying Obama, as well as their own political and financial elites.
But any boastful talk of a new economic partnership will be just that for now. By law, Britain can’t even begin direct trade negotiations with another country until it has exited the EU, a process expected to take years.
“The U.K., and the U.K. media, will be looking for evidence that it will indeed be possible to deliver a U.S.-U.K. trade agreement in short order,” said Peter Westamacott, who served as British ambassador to Washington from 2012 to 2016.
“The reality is that complex trade agreements cannot be delivered overnight, unless one side is prepared to settle for an unbalanced deal. In practice, they take years to complete,” he added. “And in this case, there are plenty of really difficult issues in financial services, agriculture and so on, which are likely to prove contentious.”
“Trump will be eager to promise her the moon,” Smith said. “But I think they’re essentially kidding themselves if they think they’re going to have big breaking news on the trade front.”
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte defended an advert published this week in which he told people to leave the Netherlands if they don’t like the country’s values, saying it was not aimed at specific ethnic groups.
In a letter to De Volkskrant published Friday, Rutte replied to newspaper readers who complained about his election campaign rhetoric. They said it was similar to that of far-right leader Geert Wilders, but Rutte said he was not talking about specific ethnic groups, but at people’s behavior.
“It’s not about white, black, Islamic, Christian, gay or straight, migrants or people that have been here for generations. The only thing that matters to me is how people behave in our country,” he wrote.
In the advert, Rutte said: “If you reject our country fundamentally, I’d rather see you go. Act normal or leave.”
A general election in the Netherlands is scheduled for March 15. Recent opinion polls put Rutte’s liberal VVD party in second place, after the far-right Party for Freedom (PVV) led by Wilders. According to the poll, the PVV would get 33 seats in the 150-seat parliament, and the VVD 24 seats.
President Donald Trump’s plans to pay for a Mexican border wall could trigger the global trade war he has long threatened.
A House Republican plan he embraced Thursday as a means of paying for the barrier would slap imported goods with a 20 percent tax — a levy aimed at boosting consumption of domestic products that could backfire by angering allies and upending the entire global trading system.
Longtime trading partners — and not just Mexico — could retaliate, making American consumers pay more for everything from food to electronics and putting U.S. companies out of business. The so-called “border adjustment tax” could trigger cases before the World Trade Organization, spur other countries to slap levies on American products and put some U.S. companies at a disadvantage with international competitors.
Trump’s embrace of the tax proposal comes as he moves forward with plans to shake up decades of carefully negotiated agreements that bind the global economy together. On Monday, he pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership — a sweeping trade deal among Pacific Rim nations — and reaffirmed his intention to reopen NAFTA. Then, a spat on Thursday with Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto over who would pay for the border wall escalated to the point that Pena Nieto canceled a trip to the U.S. to meet with Trump next week.
“Would they retaliate immediately?” asked Dan Ikenson, director of the trade policy center at the free-market Cato Institute, referring to the response of trading partners to the border tax plan. “In the age of Trump, governments may not have the manners that they once had and may just unilaterally go after U.S. products. That’s quite possible.”
By raising the cost of imported goods, the tax would push Americans away from buying products that come from outside of the United States — from avocados, which are heavily sourced from Mexico, to cheap household appliances shipped in from China and sold at Wal-Mart. The resulting hit to the economies of foreign nations that depend on the massive American marketplace to gobble up their goods could prompt those governments to retaliate.
And their methods could take myriad forms.
They could launch trade enforcement cases at the World Trade Organization — an option that could take years and still not be successful, given the likelihood that lawmakers would try to write the tax in such a way as to fall within the global trading body’s regulations.
Or foreign countries could move to retaliate against the United States outside the WTO system, especially larger U.S. trading partners that would bear the brunt of the lost sales. That includes China, which accounted for about 22 percent of the $2.25 trillion in U.S. imports in 2015, and Canada and Mexico, which represented slightly more than 13 percent apiece.
Mexico, as the United States’ third-largest trading partner, could disrupt the trading system by levying a reciprocal tax on imports of American goods, an idea that some mainstream Republicans are already warning against.
“Any tariff we can levy they can levy,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) posted on Twitter Thursday evening. “Huge barrier to econ(omic) growth.”
But Mexico City — or other trading partners — could try to punish Trump and other supporters of the tax by targeting goods in politically sensitive areas, said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
“The Mexican minds will be thinking about what they could do that would give President Trump the most pain in his political base,” he said, adding that that might mean “stopping imports of certain products made in Indiana or Michigan or wherever.”
And they could go after areas not associated directly with legal trade.
“They can do all sorts of things we don’t like,” Hufbauer said. “They can legalize marijuana. They can legalize cocaine. They can stop cooperating with the U.S. with respect to refugees from Guatemala, Honduras, and so forth.”
The plan, which would target imports while allowing tax-free exports, would boost the value of the dollar, giving customers more purchasing power to manage the higher costs, supporters say.
But some say the costs of the tax would hit wallets immediately, well before the value of the dollar rises: The levy on imported agricultural products, for example, would mean that a $100 grocery bill for a shopping cart full of bananas, mangoes and other produce not grown within the United States would rise to $120.
But Americans could mitigate the rise in costs simply by changing what they buy, Ikenson said. “If we import oranges but we produce our apples domestically, apple prices are going to go down and orange prices are going to go up.”
And proponents maintain the costs would even out eventually, even with what Ikenson called a likely “adjustment period” at the start.
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, the top tax writer in the House and a supporter of the plan, told Fox News in an interview Thursday night that he was “convinced this world economy recognizes changes.
“We will strengthen our made-in-America exports,” Brady said. “Our dollar will appreciate. Imports — you will be buying more of them at a lower price. I think it balances out in a major way.”
Businesses could protect consumers from the higher prices by swallowing the costs themselves — but those that are heavily dependent on imports, particularly small businesses and retailers, say they won’t be able to handle the adjustment.
“We’re sort of a poster child for victims of this,” said Rick Woldenberg, chief executive of Learning Resources, a small Illinois company that manufactures educational toys in China and sells them in 80 countries around the world. “We’re in a cutthroat business.”
“I’m in favor of tax reform. Come on, this is obvious,” Woldenberg said during a discussion Thursday on the Republican plan hosted by the Washington International Trade Association. “But 97 percent of American importers are small businesses, [companies] with under 500 employees,” “Small businesses are in the center of the bullseye in this law.”
Doug Palmer contributed to this report.
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin and and his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump are scheduled to speak by phone Saturday, the Kremlin said Friday, Reuters reported.
The planned phone call will be the first conversation between the two since Trump took office January 20.
The Kremlin did not outline what the presidents will discuss during their conversation.
Trump has repeatedly spoken warmly about Putin and suggested he may be willing to lift the sanctions imposed on Russia after it annexed Crimea.
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the Germany foreign minister who is set to become president next month, was stunned by last year’s divisive U.S. presidential election, he told newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeiting in an interview published Friday.
“I am horrified by this U.S. election campaign, even after many years in politics,” said Steinmeier, who leaves his post Friday.
“We have never experienced such polarization in American domestic politics, and no one, not even [U.S. President Donald] Trump himself, can deny that Trump played a part in it too.”
Steinmeier said Germany held fundamentally different views to the U.S. on the issue of torture, referring to Trump’s comments that waterboarding “worked” as a means of intelligence-gathering.
“This isn’t about little things. It’s about fundamental questions in our self-understanding,” Steinmeier said.
He said he hoped the new U.S. administration will come to see the benefits and importance of a transatlantic relationship, which “is strong only if it is cherished on both sides.”
The future German president said he was struck by Trump’s apparently lack of understanding of the importance of trade.
“Until a few days ago I could never have imagined that a French president and Chinese president would have to instruct their new American colleague about the advantages of an open world and free trade.”
Martin Schulz’s efforts to raise the profile of the European Parliament may have won him fans back home in Germany, but the assembly’s civil servants — led by his compatriot Klaus Welle — are glad to see the back of him.
The former Parliament president’s tendency to centralize power on his office and direct resources to party groups rather than the civil service and individual MEPs thwarted Welle’s long-running campaign, as secretary-general of the European Parliament, to turn it into an arena of free-wheeling democracy modeled on the U.S. Congress.
With Schulz’s departure to campaign for the German chancellorship and the dissolution of the “grand coalition” between his Socialists & Democrats and Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s European People’s Party, Welle can get back to business as usual. He is unlikely to be impeded by Schulz’s successor, Antonio Tajani, who has promised to preside with a gentler hand.
“Welle and Schulz clashed over the internal organization of the Parliament,” said Andrew Duff, a former British MEP who has written extensively about the Parliament. “Tajani provides an easier partnership for Welle.”
Welle’s first focus will be institutional efficiency, stepping up plans to impose “performance indicators” on policymaking and streamline the internal organization. Colleagues said he had been deeply frustrated by Schulz’s lack of interest and support.
Some far more visible projects may also be on the agenda, including a major renovation and costly upgrade of the Paul-Henri Spaak building, the oldest wing of the Parliament’s complex in Brussels.
Veteran officials in Parliament said Welle has wasted no time since Schulz’s departure and has proposed several new hires for the cabinet of his friend and ally Tajani. “He is taking advantage now of the lack of coherence on where the House is going,” said one long-standing Parliament official. “Welle is doing whatever he wants. He is clearly conditioning everything that is happening.”
Welle has made no secret of his glee over Schulz’s departure. One Parliament official familiar with Welle’s thinking said the secretary-general viewed the election of Tajani as a triumph of the institution over its personalities. In Welle’s view, a victory for Tajani’s main opponent, Gianni Pittella of the S&D, would have yielded a similarly beneficial result.
“It means the presidency of Martin Schulz was the exception to the rule and not a new stage in development,” said the official, describing Schulz’s charismatic leadership of the Parliament as a “phase” that is now over.
Philippe Lamberts, the Belgian MEP who leads the Greens group, said Schulz “wanted to pretend that the role of a European parliament president was highly political, but what determines the political dimension of the Parliament are the plenaries, not the president.”
By turning the European Parliament presidency election into a contest between Tajani and Pittella, MEPs effectively sent a message that they wanted to restore rights to rank-and-file MEPs — who are elected by EU voters — and “return to the old normal.”
However, not everyone in the Parliament agrees with Welle’s focus on shoring up the civil service, building up its institutional expertise — for example, he has created a parliamentary research service modelled after the Congressional Research Service in Washington — and switching the focus to individual MEPs, potentially at the cost of transnational party groups.
“If you push the Parliament into a more Washingtonian model, you create more instability and you weaken the political groups,” said one senior Parliament official. “The more you destabilize the political groups, the more you push MEPs toward individualization, toward national interest.”
Some officials say there is concern in the corridors of the Parliament that Welle, as an avowed federalist, is out of touch with the anti-establishment, populist sentiment sweeping across the Continent. In that context, they say, his campaign to build up the institutions, launch expensive renovation projects and allow MEPs to hire additional staff risk being “food for the populists.”
“Who was stopping all his crazy projects regarding the reorganization of this house?” asked one official. “It was Martin Schulz. [Welle] has apparently taken them out of the closet now that Schulz is gone, these kind of Pharaonic projects.”
Despite his focus on the Parliament as an institution, Welle — whose contract as secretary-general runs until 2019 — is not a career civil servant. He made his name as secretary-general of the EPP, now the largest political group in the Parliament, and is credited with aggressively expanding the group to include parties such as Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza Italia — which Tajani helped to found — as well as conservative parties from Sweden, Finland and Austria.
The expansion led the EPP beyond its traditional Christian Democrat base to create what is currently the most powerful political movement in Europe, which counts Juncker, European Council President Donald Tusk and Germany’s Angela Merkel as family members.
Schulz was catapulted to the Parliament presidency as part of a power-sharing deal between his Socialists and the EPP, though in his first term he treated the post as a consolation prize for coming second in the election for Commission president in 2014. When Schulz did turn his attention to running the Parliament, he treated it essentially as an arm of his “grand coalition” with Juncker, rubber stamping pre-agreed EU legislation.
Tajani, in contrast, is expected to support Welle’s administrative agenda “without interference,” according to one long-standing Parliament official.
On Friday, British Prime Minister Theresa May will become the first foreign leader to visit Donald Trump in Washington since he became president. With a nod to Trump’s Scottish bloodlines, the prime minister is expected to present him with a quaich, a two-handled ceremonial cup traditionally used for drinking whisky that is supposed to be a token of trust and friendship. Whether the teetotaler Trump will appreciate this gesture is one thing; whether that trust and friendship can actually be established is entirely another.
The special relationship, after all, is in a very special quandary. Trump’s “America First” rhetoric has horrified almost all of America’s traditional European allies. His suggestion that NATO is “obsolete” and his happiness to countenance the complete collapse of the European Union threatens to abandon more than a half-century of U.S. foreign policy. Even though Trump has endeared himself to the Brexiteers, who cheered his recent declaration that Britain was “so smart” to leave the EU, Trump is far less popular in Britain than even George W. Bush was at his worst. During the campaign, May herself complained that Trump’s rhetoric about Muslims was “divisive, unhelpful and wrong”; one of her chiefs of staff called Trump a “chump,” and the other said he had no interest in “reaching out” to Trump.
Yet, May can no longer ignore The Donald. Unless you’re Vladimir Putin, you deal with the American president you have, not the one you might like to have in the Oval Office — that’s the starting point for every international leader in the Age of Trump. In fact, May, who is herself new to international politics, may need to lean on the United States more than Britain in many years. Having voted this summer to abandon the European Union, the British must cling tightly to their Anglophone alliances and trade partnerships.
All this puts May in an impossible spot: How can she endear herself to her most powerful foreign partner when he is loathed in her own country, and many of its longtime European partners? This is a high-risk business, with huge potential for humiliation.
True, there are risks for Trump. If he cannot establish a strong working relationship with Britain, his chances of doing so with any other country (well, except maybe Russia) must be reckoned negligible. A meeting with the British prime minister is, as far as Trump is concerned, diplomacy steadied with training wheels. If he still falls, it will be telling. Americans and foreigners alike will further doubt his statesmanship, and his less-than-steady start in office could get even shakier.
The dangers for May, however, are more significant. It’s not just the clash between Britain’s national interest, which demands a good working relationship with the new American administration, and its national pride, which demands that she keep her distance from Trump. Making matters more awkward is the fact Trump thrives on, and indeed may only respond to, unctuous flattery. May, who has relished being described as “a bloody difficult woman,” is at risk of seeming Trump’s patsy. At the Republicans’ congressional retreat in Philadelphia on Thursday, she already seemed to go all-in for Trump, declaring that it was an honor to be present as “dawn breaks on a new era of American renewal.” “Haven’t you noticed? Opposites attract,” she quipped earlier to reporters. If May has to eat an uncommonly gristly sandwich, then so be it.
Brexit adds a further complication. President Barack Obama infuriated pro-Brexit Britons over the summer when he suggested that leaving the European Union would relegate Britain to “the back of the queue” for any further U.S. trade deals. Trump, by contrast, has said a one-on-one U.S.-UK deal can be done quickly, and that Britain is “at the front of the line.” Pro-Brexit British conservatives are determined to see in Trump a man with whom they can do business. (One cabinet minister told the Spectator, “Trump has come along like the tooth fairy. This is one massive, magnificent gift.”) That puts enormous pressure on May — who has chosen the slogan “global Britain” to define her administration, promising to make the country a champion of free trade — to make real progress on a deal with Trump, the prospects of which are uncertain.
It is hard to square that goal, however, with a president elected, at least in part, because of his overt hostility to free trade. Besides, nothing in Trump’s character indicates he appreciates, let alone values, the concept of mutual advantage. He loves deals, but the joy of the deal comes from screwing the other guy. Everything appears to be a zero-sum game to Trump. In that respect, any warm words Trump and May exchange in the White House demand skepticism. What Trump does will be far more important than what he says. The flag-waving sections of the British press have cheered Trump’s decision to return a bust of Winston Churchill to the Oval Office, but that kind of symbolism is cheap, easy and close to meaningless.
Maybe, just maybe, Trump will recognize that even he needs friends, and that perhaps no country is better placed to guide an inexperienced U.S. president than America’s old wartime ally. Obama reportedly advised May to gently educate the new president in the ways of the world, and maybe Trump will listen. For May, that strategy carries unmistakable echoes of former Prime Minister Harold Macmillan’s assertion that “These Americans represent the new Roman empire, and we Britons, like the Greeks of old, must teach them how to make it go.” That was as patronizing as it was delusional; May must avoid the same mistake of overestimating Britain’s importance and the Americans’ desire to listen.
Addressing congressional Republicans on Thursday, May flattered her audience while lacing her remarks with a considerable measure of self-delusion. “So as we rediscover our confidence together,” she said, “as you renew your nation just as we renew ours, we have the opportunity—indeed, the responsibility—to renew the special relationship for this new age. We have the opportunity to lead, together, again.” It is hard to read this as anything other than wistful pining for a world long since gone, but remarkably the British government seems to be taking the idea seriously.
For more than 60 years, the Anglo-American alliance has been the centerpiece of British foreign policy. And Friday’s meeting at the White House will surely produce kind words and flattering headlines hailing a new era in the so-called special relationship. In the post-Brexit era, that relationship looms larger than ever. Britain cannot move away from the Atlantic alliance, but in the age of Trump, nor can we rely on it.
Alex Massie writes for the Spectator, the Times and other publications.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer on Thursday said President Donald Trump supports a tax on imports to pay for a wall along the Mexican border, before quickly walking back the remarks.
“When you look at the plan that’s taking shape now, using comprehensive tax reform as a means to tax imports from countries that we have a trade deficit from, like Mexico,” Spicer said on the flight back from Philadelphia, where Trump addressed congressional Republicans at their annual retreat. “If you tax that $50 billion at 20 percent of imports — which is by the way a practice that 160 other countries do — right now our country’s policy is to tax exports and let imports flow freely in, which is ridiculous. By doing it, that we can do $10 billion a year and easily pay for the wall just through that mechanism alone. That’s really going to provide the funding.”
It was not immediately clear whether Spicer was talking about 20 percent tariff on imported goods from Mexico or a more nuanced border adjustment tax on imported goods that goes beyond Mexico.
“This is something that we’ve been in close contact with both houses in moving forward and creating a plan,” Spicer added. “It clearly provides the funding and does so in a way that the American taxpayer is wholly respected.”
Spicer later seemed to modify his comments, saying a tax on imports was one possibility for funding the wall.
The proposed tax appears aimed at realizing Trump’s longstanding promise that Mexico would pay for the wall. Should companies pass on the cost of the tax to customers, however, it would mean American consumers would shoulder some or all of the burden.
The announcement comes after Trump took executive actions Wednesday to crack down on illegal immigration, including directing funds to begin construction of the wall. Speaker Paul Ryan told his colleagues in Philadelphia Wednesday that Congress would find a way to pay for the barrier.
Mexican officials have repeatedly said they will not pay for the wall, and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto on Thursday canceled a planned trip to Washington to meet with Trump.
“I’ve said many times that the American people will not pay for the wall. And I’ve made that clear to the government of Mexico,” Trump said in Philadelphia after news of the cancelation. “To that end, the president of Mexico and myself have agreed to cancel our planned meeting scheduled for next week. Unless Mexico is going to treat the United States fairly, with respect, such a meeting would be fruitless and I want to go a different route. We have no choice.”
Dutch Justice Minister Ard Van der Steur resigned Thursday over a controversial deal in which his ministry paid a criminal €2.1 million in exchange for information, NOS reported.
Van der Steur, a senior member of Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s liberal VVD party, came under fire over his involvement in the so-called Teeven deal, a scandal that led to his predecessor’s resignation in March 2015.
Former Justice Minister Ivo Opstelten, along with his secretary of state Fred Teeven, resigned after admitting to misleading parliament about the payments when it emerged the amount in question was closer to €2.1 million than the previously disclosed €385,000.
Dutch journalist Bas Haan alleged in a recently published book that Van der Steur had deliberately withheld information from parliament, first as an MP and then in his post as justice minister.
The resignation is a blow to Rutte, who had expressed confidence in his minister and whose party is trailing behind far-right firebrand Geert Wilders’ Freedom Party just two months before national elections.
Opinion polls published Sunday suggest the Freedom Party would emerge as the biggest if elections were held today, with 33 seats in the 150-seat parliament. Rutte’s party would come in second with 26 seats, followed by the Christian Democrat CDA with 16 seats. Between 50 and 75 percent of voters are still undecided, the poll found.
President Donald Trump said Thursday that he will be forced to engage in trade negotiations on his own when he meets with British Prime Minister Theresa May on Friday because the Senate has yet to confirm his commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross.
Trump is scheduled to host May at the White House on Friday, his first meeting with a foreign leader since assuming the presidency last week. Among other topics, the two leaders are expected to discuss U.S.-Great Britain trade policies to take the place of the agreements the U.S. has with the European Union since the U.K. voted last summer to leave.

“I mean, I’m meeting with the prime minister tomorrow, as you know, Great Britain. So I’m meeting with her tomorrow. I don’t have my commerce secretary,” Trump said in his remarks to Congressional Republicans’ retreat in Philadelphia. “They want to talk trade, so I’ll have to handle it myself, which is okay,” he added, eliciting laughter from the room full of lawmakers.
Both Trump and other members of his administration have complained that Senate Democrats have been unfairly slow in confirming the president’s cabinet, comparing it almost daily to the number of appointees former President Barack Obama had confirmed at this stage in his presidency.
“I would like to have my commerce secretary, Wilbur, approved because I hear he did fantastically well. But they’re not quick with the pen in signing these people because we’d like to have him approved as soon as possible,” Trump said, turning to face Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who responded that “it will be done.”
“And Mitch says it will be done and it will be,” Trump said. “They could move faster on the other side, I will say that. Could move faster.”
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called on EU countries to adapt U.S. President Donald Trump’s slogan and “make Europe great again” — but he wasn’t talking about the European Union.
Orbán, speaking on Thursday at the Brussels offices of the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, the political foundation close to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said Europe should adapt to the new world order rather than denying it exists.
“There is a saying: whatever exists is possible,” Orbán said, adding this was his “number one principle in political leadership.” But he said many in Europe would ignore the “new paradigm” of a world with “multiple centers of power.” He listed the U.S., China, and Russia but not the EU.
Orbán called on fellow EU leaders to acknowledge that the bloc faces multiple crises — weak economic growth, aging societies, poor foreign policy choices and a lack of trust among the electorate — and forecast the EU’s decline from being a “regional power” today to having even less influence.
His recipe to reverse the decline? Leaders should get rid of  “a utopia called supranational Europe.” If Europe wanted to become competitive again, it “must abandon the illusion of federalism,” Orbán said. “We’re interested in a strong Hungary in a strong Europe.”
“Europe was never strong when it was directed from one strong center, but when there were multiple centers,” Orbán said.
“Europe itself must become multipolar,” Orbán said, and seek a new relationship with the United States “instead of the doomed free trade agreement,” must deal with China and “place the issue of Russia back on the agenda.”
“In my opinion, a nation or a community that is unable to reproduce itself does not deserve to exist … This problem and this crisis cannot be solved or treated with migration, with migrants, with guest workers, or with common tricks.”
Such a “community does not believe in its own future, and therefore there is no place for it in the future.”
LONDON — Vital intelligence-sharing between British and American security services could break down if Donald Trump sanctions the use of torture as an interrogation method, an ex-MI6 assistant chief warned Thursday.
Trump’s assertion that waterboarding and other forms of torture “work” threatens to cast a shadow over U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s visit to Washington, where she will become the first world leader to meet the new president at the White House.
May has come under pressure from opposition parties to challenge Trump on his stance on torture, but her foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, declined Thursday to criticize Trump’s remarks.
However, Nigel Inkster, a former assistant chief and director of operations and intelligence at the British Secret Intelligence Service, also known as MI6, said that Trump’s stance could harm Britain’s close intelligence-sharing relationship with the U.S.
“The U.K. would not be able to share intelligence with the U.S. if it had good reason to believe that sharing would result in the ill treatment of a detainee,” Inkster told POLITICO.
“The challenge would be either to secure from the recipient state credible assurances that that would not happen or not to pass the intelligence,” said Inkster, now a director at the International Institute for Strategic Studies think tank in London.
He said that, if the U.S. sanctioned torture, U.K. intelligence officers could be put in the position of having to accept information that may have been gathered using methods the British government officially opposes in the strongest terms.
“When you get a piece of intelligence it doesn’t come with a headline saying this intelligence was the product of waterboarding. You may well not know where the intelligence has come from,” he said.
Inkster added that extradition arrangements with the U.S. could also be compromised.
U.S. intelligence officers, he said, were unlikely to want to use the methods endorsed by Trump. “Asking whether torture works is a bit like asking whether slavery is an efficient system for economic production. It’s not a question a civilized society ought to be asking itself,” Inkster said.
The president told ABC News he had asked people “at the highest level of intelligence” whether torture worked. “The answer was ‘Yes, absolutely,’” he said. However, Trump also said he would defer to his defense secretary and CIA chief on the issue.
May told MPs Wednesday that the U.K. did not sanction torture and would not get involved with it.
But Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour party, challenged May to “say no to waterboarding” in a tweet posted Thursday. The Scottish National Party’s Westminster leader Angus Robertson told the Guardian that May should explain to Trump “the extremely damaging consequences” a policy of torture could have for intelligence cooperation. Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron used Twitter to call on May to tell Trump that the U.K. would not extradite citizens to the U.S. “as long as they are at risk of torture.”
A Downing Street spokesman said the U.K and the U.S. had a “strong and close” relationship that permitted “frank exchanges.”
Labour MP Tulip Siddiq resigned from the party’s frontbench Thursday in protest at party leader Jeremy Corbyn’s decision to force MPs to support the government’s Brexit bill.
Earlier Thursday, the government published the bill that will give Prime Minister Theresa May the power to trigger Article 50 and officially begin Brexit negotiations, after which Corbyn imposed a three-line whip forcing Labour MPs to back the bill.
Voting to start the process of leaving the European Union would betray her north London constituents, 75 percent of whom voted Remain, Siddiq wrote in her resignation letter to Corbyn, according to the Guardian.
“I have always been clear — I do not represent Westminster in Hampstead and Kilburn, I represent Hampstead and Kilburn in Westminster,” Siddiq, who was first elected in May 2015 and appointed to the Labour frontbench in September, wrote. “I feel that the most effective place for me to counter Theresa May’s hard Brexit is from the backbenches.”
President Donald Trump will take questions from the press for his first news conference since his inauguration on Friday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters aboard Air Force One en route to Philadelphia on Thursday.
The press conference will be a joint presser with U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May, who is the first foreign leader to visit Trump since he took office.
Trump’s last press conference took place on January 11 and was a contentious meeting with the assembled media.
Germany has ditched a law that protected foreign heads of state and government against insult, its justice ministry announced, calling the legislation “obsolete.”
The “lèse-majesté” law — originally intended to protect monarchs — “dates back to a long-gone era, it no longer belongs in our criminal law,” Justice Minister Heiko Maas said Wednesday. “The regulation is obsolete and unnecessary.”
Insulting a political leader had been punishable by up to three years in jail. Libel or slander carries a one-year prison sentence or a fine.
The rarely-used legislation came to prominence last year when Chancellor Angela Merkel approved a request by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to investigate satirist Jan Böhmermann after he read a poem on live TV in which he claimed the Turkish leader watched child pornography and had sex with goats.
The case was dropped in November over insufficient evidence.
The announcement came five days after U.S. President Donald Trump took office amid nation-wide demonstrations and international apprehension over his foreign policy.
In a Pew survey conducted last summer, 85 percent of Germans said they had no confidence Trump would “do the right thing regarding world affairs.”
The law is expected to be abolished by January 1, 2018. The country’s slander and libel laws will still apply, but foreign leaders will be no more or less protected than an average citizen.
A victory for Marine Le Pen in France or the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany would be a “disaster” for the Continent, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said Thursday.
“I don’t even want to think about it, that would be a disaster, it would simply mean the destruction of Europe,” Rajoy said in an interview with radio station Onda Cero.
“[Le Pen] wants [France] to leave Europe, as if Europe were the source of all misfortunes. I would like it if she visited the rest of the world,” he added.
The National Front leader has pledged to organize a Brexit-style referendum on France’s EU membership if elected president in May, while the AfD in Germany is campaigning on a staunch Euroskeptic platform ahead of federal elections later this year.
But “things will turn out all right” both in France and in Germany, Rajoy predicted, adding that he hoped conservative candidate François Fillon would win presidential elections in France.
Le Pen is widely expected to go up against Fillon — who is facing embarrassing allegations over funds paid to his wife — in a run-off vote for the French presidency.
The AfD is currently polling in third place at 15 percent.
Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen warned Europe not to turn inward and let itself “be seduced by simple answers” in a speech marking his first day in office, Deutsche Welle reported.
“This Europe is unfinished and fragile, it is complex,” Van der Bellen said at his inauguration ceremony in Vienna. Nationalism and regionalism will not help address the challenges ahead, he warned.
“For me, the biggest danger is that we let ourselves be seduced by simple answers, that we fall into nationalism and small-country parochialism,” he said.
This was particularly true in Austria, he said, describing the country as lying “in the heart of Europe, not just geographically but politically.”
In December’s run-off election, Van der Bellen narrowly defeated far-right candidate Norbert Hofer, whose Freedom Party gained massive support in the wake of the migration crisis and pledged to secure Austria’s borders and keep the EU from encroaching on its sovereignty.
Van der Bellen’s role as president is largely symbolic, but the former Green Party leader — unapologetic about his stance on welcoming refugees, his support for the EU and conviction that the Schengen treaty on free movement is a cornerstone of European stability — is seen as a hopeful sign by pro-EU politicians facing populist challenges elsewhere.
Meanwhile, Austria’s grand coalition government has come to a political impasse over a reform plan, which it must resolve by Friday, Reuters reported.
The plan — which focuses on job creation, economic growth and education — includes new security measures that would tighten controls on asylum seekers. The center-right Austrian People’s Party (ÖVP) has called for an upper limit on refugees, a measure the Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) has so far refused to back.
The political infighting has raised the prospect of early elections before the scheduled fall of 2018. Chancellor Christian Kern dismissed the idea of elections Thursday, saying the coalition would resolve all issues in negotiations.
PARIS — François Fillon’s campaign to become French president is losing altitude.
On Thursday, aides to the former prime minister rushed to contain a growing scandal over reports that Fillon’s British wife carried out generously paid work in parliament for years without really doing the job.
After a financial prosecutor opened a preliminary investigation, top backers vowed they would prove his innocence. Bruno Retailleau, Fillon’s campaign coordinator, promised that evidence would prove rapidly that Penelope Fillon had indeed done the work for which she was paid €500,000 over eight years. The judicial probe could last for months, dogging Fillon throughout the remainder of the campaign.
“As soon as the [financial prosecutor’s] offices are open, François Fillon’s lawyer will go there with a certain number of pieces of evidence,” Retailleau, a senator, told Europe 1 radio early Thursday, without specifying the nature of the evidence.
Conservative allies also rushed to defend Fillon, whose poll scores have slipped in the past month but who remains favorite to win the presidential election in May. Valerie Pecresse, a former budget minister in Fillon’s government, attacked the timing of the investigation, launched three months before a presidential election. She hinted that it was politically motivated. “I’ve never seen a court investigate so rapidly on the basis of a newspaper report — the speed is astonishing,” she told RTL.
After staying silent for the best part of two days — save for describing the allegations as “sexist” — Fillon went on television Thursday night to insist his wife had done real work for him ever since he was elected to parliament in 1981.
“She has edited my speeches, stood in for me at events when I couldn’t be there, done newspaper reviews,” he said, adding that proof would be provided to the public prosecutor.
Fillon said his wife had worked pro bono for him until 1997, when one of his parliamentary aides resigned and he then paid her from his MP’s payroll.
Critics assailed the “misogyny” defense as awkward and beside the point. Instead of dousing a media blaze, it only sharpened focus on independent reports disputing the bona fides of Penelope Fillon’s parliamentary job.
In l’Obs magazine, a longtime parliamentary journalist wrote that he never saw Penelope Fillon at work in the chamber. His testimony echoed that of an MP’s assistant who was meant to share duties with Fillon’s wife, but told Le Canard Enchainé that she was never around.
“None of us has any memory of ever running into her [Penelope Fillon] at the Palais Bourbon [National Assembly], not even by the buffet at a reception,” wrote Olivier Picard in l’Obs.
Fillon has not denied having paid his wife for parliament work, which he said was legal. In that sense he is correct, as no rules prohibit MP hiring spouses or relations, a practice that is fairly common.
However, failing to do a job for which one is paid is illegal, and the practice of doing so has a long history among France’s right-wing politicians. Former president Jacques Chirac, under whom Fillon served as a minister, was dogged for years by allegations that as mayor of Paris he had paid dozens of people employed in “fictional jobs,” as the practice is known in France. Chirac was never convicted of any crime, but his heavily covered trial made the concept familiar to millions of French people who recognize it now in the “PenelopeGate” scandal.
Beyond the strictly legal risk, there is a political minefield awaiting Fillon. Having campaigned, very successfully, on promises to rein in public spending and shock the French economy into recovery, he now faces accusations of hypocrisy, wanton use of institutional privilege and being disconnected from regular people.
Penelope Fillon’s reported earnings contrast sharply with France’s median monthly gross income of around €2,250. For blue-collar workers, the figure is about €1,700.
Fillon’s political rivals — particularly Marine Le Pen, who is widely expected to go up against him in a run-off vote for the French presidency — will not let such an opportunity go to waste.
For now, the National Front president is going easy on the conservative candidate, her closest rival for the presidency. She may not want to draw attention to the fact that she and several other National Front MEPs are under investigation for misuse of parliamentary assistants at the European Parliament — a case that sounds a lot like Fillon’s.
But Le Pen, who has positioned herself as a champion of blue-collar workers, does not need to go on the attack for Fillon’s case to work to her advantage.
Another potential winner is Emmanuel Macron. The 39-year-old former minister was catching up with Fillon in polls before the PenelopeGate scandal broke, largely thanks to the absence of a center-left candidate in the race. (The final round of the Socialist Party’s primary is due Sunday, with left-winger Benoît Hamon expected to clinch the nomination.) Now, Macron may see an opportunity to steal Fillon voters, selling himself as fiscally responsible as well as ethically clean.
Fillon will have to come up with some convincing answers soon to get his campaign back on track.
Greece’s supreme court ruled against extradition of eight Turkish soldiers accused by Ankara of involvement in last July’s attempted coup, the BBC reported Thursday.
The eight soldiers fled to Greece by helicopter a day after the coup attempt. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s demand that the men be returned to stand trial in Turkey has strained relations between the two countries.
The soldiers have denied any involvement in the coup attempt and said their lives would be in danger if they were forced to return to Turkey, where Erdoğan has led a massive crackdown against alleged political dissidents and proposed reinstating the death penalty.
In a recent poll, 60 percent of Greeks said they opposed agreeing to Turkey’s extradition request, the Guardian reported.
The court’s decision is final and cannot be appealed.
The U.K. government on Thursday published the bill that will give Prime Minister Theresa May the power to trigger Article 50 and officially begin Brexit negotiations.
The 137-word bill was tabled in parliament Thursday, after the Supreme Court ruled that parliament must give its consent for the start of talks.
The European Union (notification of withdrawal) bill states as its aim to “confer power on the prime minister to notify, under article 50(2) of the treaty on European Union, the United Kingdom’s intention to withdraw from the EU.”
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will impose a three-line whip forcing Labour MPs to back the bill, he told Sky News.
“It’s clearly a three-line whip,” he said. “It is a vote on the Article 50 … We will put out a statement today to our members that we want them to vote for Article 50.”
Corbyn acknowledged the pressures that MPs faced but urged all Labour lawmakers to “unite around the important issues of jobs, economy, security, rights, justice” to help frame the U.K.’s relationship “with Europe in the future.”
“The British people have made the decision to leave the EU and this government is determined to get on with the job of delivering it,” Brexit Secretary David Davis said Thursday.
Shortly before the bill was published, David Lidington, the leader of the House of Commons, told MPs they would have just five days to debate the issue — two next week and three the week after — before the bill passes to the Lords for further debate.
LONDON — Theresa May knows what she wants from Donald Trump, but doesn’t yet know the price.
The U.K. prime minister arrives in the United States Thursday vowing to reboot the special relationship with the new administration and eager to start work on a U.S.-U.K. trade deal. But even before she had landed, costs were beginning to rack up, both at home and abroad.
The British embassy in Washington is already taking heat from U.S. Democrats angry at May’s decision to address Republican members of Congress at a retreat in Philadelphia Thursday ahead of her tête-à-tête with Trump at the White House Friday, a diplomatic source said.
The embassy did not want May to only address the Republican gathering, worrying it would seem partisan, the source said, but it was overruled by Downing Street. The prime minister will meet Democrat and Republican members of Congress at an embassy reception Thursday evening.
In London, concern mounted at the U.S. president’s seeming openness to torture and his push to crack down on immigration.
Trump’s White House sees Brexit Britain as its number one ideological ally in a world of hostile powers and multilateral stitch-ups, according to those who know the president and his chief advisers Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner. But Trump is first and foremost a dealmaker who has vowed to put America first.
May will arrive at the White House having attempted to give all the right signals to a Trump administration sensitive to appearances.
In her speech to Republicans she is expected to draw favorable parallels between the Trump election victory and Britain’s decision to leave the EU. The two events, she is expected to say, have allowed Britain and the U.S. to “rediscover our confidence” to lead the world again. The speech will be music to the president’s ear — and that of his influential adviser Bannon.
While May must pull out all the stops ahead of Britain’s formal withdrawal from the EU, expected to begin in March and be completed in 2019, the cost of cooperation with the most unpredictable president in post-war history is unknown.
From the future of NATO to Russian relations, ISIS, global warming, trade barriers and the use of torture, Trump’s new regime may pose significant problems for the U.K.
Former Labour leader Ed Miliband gave a flavor of the trouble ahead, tweeting Wednesday night: “Today he starts on the wall, praises waterboarding, bullies climate scientists. She says they can lead together. Surely decent Tories feel queasy?”
Some certainly are. Andrew Tyrie, Conservative MP and chair of the treasury select committee, warned May at Prime Minister’s Questions Wednesday not to let the U.K. “be dragged into facilitating…torture, as we were after 11 September [2001].”
Others credit May for hard-headed pursuit of the national interest.
“Our relationship with the Trump administration is going to be based on our mutual interest, which is very substantial,” Conservative MP Crispin Blunt, chair of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, told POLITICO. “There is an early and very important interest in securing a free trade agreement between the U.S. and the U.K. which is based on our need, as part of repositioning our role in the world after we leave the EU.”
As she gets down to business with the New York billionaire Friday lunchtime, May faces the daunting task of fostering good relations while simultaneously keeping her distance.
Here are five diplomatic tensions to watch out for during May’s trip.
Britain has long been the needy, dependent partner in this transatlantic alliance, constantly seeking reassurance whenever the U.S. appeared to be going cold. But with Trump in the White House, the U.K.’s problem has almost flipped on its head.
Trump is so wrapped up in Britain’s decision to withdraw from the European Union he feels ownership of its success, said the president’s allies in the Brexit movement.
In many respects, the president and his team are more ideologically committed to Brexit — and the disruption of a cosy elite it symbolizes for them — than May, who campaigned to remain in the EU. In Trump, May might find a friend urging her to go further than she is comfortable to.
“He will want things to happen [on Brexit],” said Andy Wigmore, one of former UKIP leader Nigel Farage’s closest allies. Wigmore joined Farage and millionaire British businessman Arron Banks when they visited Trump after the U.S. election and has held talks with the new president since. “He will give Theresa May an extra bit of steel to crack on with things and that’s absolutely how he sees it from the conversations we’ve had… He thinks he can help.”
The last time a U.S. president tried to help, Barack Obama warned Britain it would go to the “back of the queue” in future trade talks. May has made it clear in TV appearances and House of Commons debates that she is prepared to stand up to the U.S. president.
She may have to, if he strays too far into U.K. politics.
On the face of it the two leaders could not be more different: Trump, a brash billionaire from New York who has taken on the system and won; May, a reserved daughter of an English vicar who has spent her career helping women get on in politics and accused police forces of racism.
In parliament on Wednesday she faced calls to challenge Trump on climate change and the use of torture, two further examples of clear political differences between the two countries. This is no ideological coming together à la Thatcher and Reagan.
Above all, May is pragmatic. She kept her head down during the Brexit referendum campaign as everyone else lost theirs, and has been conspicuous since becoming prime minister in keeping her counsel on the U.S. election, despite widespread criticism in the press.
“He’s fully aware of the optics, what people have said about him,” Wigmore said. “They voted in parliament to try to ban him from Great Britain. Her advisers were pretty horrible about him. Boris Johnson was pretty pungent about him. Theresa May never was, remember. He will take her at face value.”
One of the reasons for May’s foray to Philadelphia for the Republicans’ annual retreat is her  understanding that whatever the U.S. president says about free trade, Congress has the final say. The irony lost on most pundits is that no matter how much Britain craves a free trade deal with the U.S., it may well be the U.K. parliament that puts up more of a fight than Congress.
From discrepancies in agricultural standards between the two countries to medical firms’ access to the U.K.’s National Health Service, a U.S. deal has the potential to quickly turn toxic at home. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is already making noises, as are the Greens and Scottish National Party.
Politically, May looks dominant at the moment, but her majority in the House of Commons remains tiny. All it takes is a rebellion by a handful of Tory MPs representing rural constituencies and the trade deal could peter out into something of very little substance.
May’s intervention into U.S. politics also risks ending up like Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu — a partisan politician adored by one half of America but not the other.
May’s cautious style could insulate her from being drawn into the kind of damaging, overly close relationship with a U.S. president that poisoned perceptions of Tony Blair among the British public.
Sir Christopher Meyer, a former British ambassador to Washington during the Bush/Blair years, told POLITICO that he doubted May was going to Washington just for show.
“I don’t think Theresa May is a naïve person, nor are the people around her,” he said. “She’s not in the business of looking for a good relationship with the United States for the sake of a good relationship. Good relationships are there for a purpose and that purpose is to protect the national interest.”
A further benefit of the Republican visit is the chance to press the case for America’s continued leadership and commitment to NATO — the alliance which forms the cornerstone of British national security but which Trump described during his election campaign as “obsolete.”
The PM will press Trump on the issue on Friday, a senior Downing Street source said. May is expected to call on the president to commit to “further strengthening” of the alliance to take the fight to ISIS.
She will also raise the tricky subject of Syria, which touches upon the major foreign policy difference between the U.K. and U.S. under Trump: Russia.
May this week reaffirmed Britain’s commitment to Ukrainian sovereignty in its battle with Moscow. Trump in contrast has floated the idea of a grand bargain with Vladimir Putin.
Allies of the prime minister and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson have made it clear in private that Britain will not change its tune on Russia, regardless of Trump.
The real danger is not being left out in the cold of a Russian reset, but being dragged further back into the mire of the Middle East in Trump’s ramped-up war on ISIS. One of May’s co-chiefs of staff, Nick Timothy, has publicly warned against interventionist foreign policy and she can ill-afford any other distractions while trying to take Britain out of the EU.
“He will ask about Nigel,” Wigmore said. “He does not get why they don’t like Nigel. It does not compute with him. He thinks Nigel is great and has done an amazing thing — nothing will budge him from that.”
And nothing will dissuade the Tory prime minister from her view that Nigel is anything but “great.” Any mention of Farage will dominate the news if it leaks and could plague May domestically.
Charlie Cooper contributed to the reporting.
This article has been updated with additional information. 
LONDON — The British government should not rush to criticize Donald Trump’s statements on torture, British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said Thursday.
Johnson told the House of Lords international relations committee he wanted to be “very careful” about Trump’s comments to ABC News that waterboarding and other forms of torture “works.”
“I don’t think we’ve seen any policy changes, official policy changes or policy pronouncements,” Johnson told the committee.
Trump’s comments threaten to cast a shadow over U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s visit to the U.S. May will be the first world leader to meet the new president at the White House Friday.
Challenged over Trump’s position on torture in the House of Commons Wednesday, May said the U.K. did not sanction torture and would not get involved with it.
Johnson told the Lords committee that the government’s policy on torture was unchanged.
Facing scrutiny over the U.K.’s early embrace of the Trump administration, Johnson did challenge some of the new president’s policy positions. He suggested that warnings over the president’s reported intention to ban immigration from certain Muslim states should be heeded by the White House.
Asked by Labour peer John Reid whether reports that Trump is set to order the suspension of visas for citizens of Syria and six other countries risked tit-for-tat policies targeting U.S. citizens in those countries, Johnson said: “Your point will be heard loud and clear in Washington, will echo in the State Department of the White House as it deserves to do.”
The foreign secretary also said the U.K. government had made its views on the Iran nuclear deal, which Trump has criticized, “very clear” to the new administration.
“We think that trying to improve relations with Iran through this deal…is on the whole a good thing,” Johnson said. “We regard that as one of the achievements of the Obama administration.”
President Donald Trump said on Thursday that Chelsea Manning, the Army private who gave military documents to WikiLeaks and whose sentence was commuted by former President Barack Obama, is an “ungrateful traitor” for penning an op-ed accusing Obama of too often compromising with his political opponents.
“Ungrateful TRAITOR Chelsea Manning, who should never have been released from prison, is now calling President Obama a weak leader. Terrible!” Trump wrote on Twitter Thursday morning.
The post was seemingly a reference to an op-ed by Manning published in The Guardian headlined “compromise doesn’t work with our political opponents. When will we learn?” In it, she writes that Obama “left behind hints of a progressive legacy” but that many of his accomplishments have already proven unable to withstand the week-old presidency of Trump, who has sought to walk back much of his predecessor’s work.
“The one simple lesson to draw from President Obama’s legacy: do not start off with a compromise,” Manning wrote. “They won’t meet you in the middle. Instead, what we need is an unapologetic progressive leader.”
Manning was found guilty by a military court martial in 2013 on multiple charges related to her leaking of military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks. She was sentenced to 35 years in prison but that sentence was commuted by President Obama in his final week in office to just seven years. Manning is set to be released in May.
LONDON — Guy Verhofstadt and the European Parliament will have a “limited and peripheral” role in Brexit negotiations, the U.K.’s secretary of state for exiting the European Union said Thursday.
David Davis said Verhofstadt, a former Belgian prime minister and now leader of the liberal group of MEPs, would be present at the talks, but “I don’t think he’ll be making the decisions.”
The European Parliament will have a veto over any final Brexit deal, but the extent of MEPs’ role in the negotiations themselves has been a bone of contention, with Verhofstadt pushing for a greater say.
The U.K. government will on Thursday publish a bill authorizing Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50, formally notifying the EU of the U.K.’s intention to leave.
May has also committed to publishing a white paper setting out the government’s negotiating aims. But taking questions in the House of Commons Thursday, Davis came under pressure from MPs to publish the policy document in advance of the Commons debate on the Article 50 bill, which must pass a vote in Parliament.
MPs will have an opportunity to scrutinize the bill in detail during the committee stage of its passage, which is likely to begin within the next two weeks. Labour and pro-EU Conservative MPs want the policy document to be published in time to inform the scrutiny process.
Questioned by Conservative MP Anna Soubry, one of the leading opponents of the government’s “hard Brexit” stance, Davis said the publication of the white paper would be “as expeditious as can be” but did not commit to publish it before MPs debate the Article 50 bill.
Despite the clamor over the white paper, MPs are not expected to block the Article 50 legislation. Government sources have suggested that the policy document would not differ substantially from May’s speech last week, in which she set out 12 goals for the Brexit negotiations and pledged to take the U.K. out of the single market.
The unemployment rate in Spain fell 2.3 percentage points to 18.6 percent in 2016, its lowest level since 2009, according to the National Institute of Statistics on Thursday.
In the last 12 months the total number without work fell by 541,700, down on the previous year when it decreased by 678,200.
There are still more than 4.2 million people on the unemployment list and more than 1.3 million Spanish households in which no one has a job. That’s down on the record 6 million people without work during the economic crisis on 2013.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he was pleased with the results. “If we’re able to maintain our economic policy, we’ll get to 20 million jobs by the end of the parliamentary term,” he said in an interview with Onda Cero radio. “There’s a lot left to do, but we’re moving forward.”
Officials in the U.K. government are overloaded as they prepare for Brexit, according to a think tank report published Thursday.
The Institute for Government said the U.K. civil service is the smallest it has been in 70 years as it prepares for one of its biggest challenges in recent history.
Some departments that face the biggest challenge as Britain pulls out of the European Union have experienced the deepest budget cuts in recent years, the report says. The environment department, that estimates that around 80 percent of its work is framed by EU legislation, has lost a third of its stuff since 2010. The Home Office, which is responsible for a new immigration system once Britain leaves the bloc, has lost a fifth of its operational budget.
The report argues that the British government has also become less open to public scrutiny, citing the example of the Home Office, which the report says withheld information in 40 percent of freedom of information requests.
Up to 70 percent of Dutch voters are still undecided seven weeks ahead of the general election in the Netherlands on March 15, local media reported Thursday.
The number of undecided voters is between 50 percent and 75 percent because of the high number of similar parties that compete in the election, according to four polling organizations who asked about voting intentions.
Opinion polls published last Sunday suggest that the far-right Freedom Party (PVV) of Geert Wilders would emerge as the biggest if elections were held today, with 33 seats in the 150 seat parliament. Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s liberals would come in second with 26 seats, followed by the Christian Democrat CDA with 16 seats.
Pollsters suggest that those projections are far from certain. Of those people who indicate that they will vote, just 28 percent say they are certain which party they will vote for. Three quarters of the people say they are considering voting for between three and four parties.
Pollster Maurice de Hond said that the majority are choosing between the more traditional parties and newer anti–establishment parties. “In the past, people would have made their choice before the election campaign even started,” De Hond said.
Definitive lists of candidates and parties are expected to be published by the electoral committee in early February. The first televised debates between party leaders are scheduled to take place later that month.
Rutte earlier this week said people should leave the Netherlands if they reject the country’s values, in an advert published in Dutch newspapers, seen as a start of his liberal VVD party’s campaign.
Belgian MPs will have to pay for their beer and wine in the federal parliament’s restaurant after wide scale opposition to an earlier decision not to ban free alcohol at the premises, local media reported.
Drinks have been free of charge for almost three decades but the parliament’s bureau, which includes the speaker, deputy speakers and leaders of the political groups, decided on Wednesday to start charging MPs for all beverages, except coffee.
An ethics committee had asked speaker Siegfried Bracke to scrap free beer and wine after an investigation into bad behavior in parliament found the move would “improve the quality of debate.”
But Bracke initially denied there was a problem and said figures show there was “no reason to reduce the alcohol consumption.” He said MPs drink an average of 3 glasses of beer and two glasses of wine a month.
Marijs Geirnaert, the chair of the Association of Alcohol and Drug Problems, called for the ban because “politicians are role models” and they should set an example for other workplaces.
It is unclear how much drinks will cost. Alcohol will remain free of charge in the regional parliament of Flanders, which had a similar policy, its speaker said last week.
More than two-thirds of Germans think the former president of the European Parliament Martin Schulz is right to run for the German chancellorship in September’s federal elections.
According to an opinion poll published Wednesday evening by broadcaster ARD, 81 percent of his own Social Democratic Party voters back Schulz’s move.
The poll also suggests that Schulz would gain as many votes (41 percent) as Germany’s current Christian Democrat leader Angela Merkel if there were direct elections today, while 11 percent of the respondents were undecided.
When it comes to good leadership, 78 percent of respondents think Merkel is a competent leader, compared to 68 percent for Schulz. Merkel was perceived as sympathetic by 63 percent of people, whereas 69 percent thought that Schulz was the more likable.
However, Schulz, who has spent the last 23 years in Brussels, remains an unknown quantity at home, with 65 percent of respondents saying they don’t know what he stands for.
Gabriel, the former SPD leader, surprised many of this own party members by resignaing from the post on Tuesday, but the poll shows that 79 percent of SPD voters back his decision to stand down. Almost 70 percent of them believe Schulz will bring new life into the party ahead of the vote.
Britain’s exit from the European Union won’t threaten its military capabilities, the defense ministry’s top civil servant said in an interview published Wednesday.
EU membership is ultimately irrelevant to the U.K.’s defense, Stephen Lovegrove told Civil Service World, because Britain has insured its safety through multinational and binational arrangements.
Out of the four leading nations involved in recent NATO deployments in Poland and the Baltics, two — Canada and the U.S. — are not European, and a third — the U.K. — is on its way out of the EU, Lovegrove said.
Referring to growing concern over Russia’s global influence, Lovegrove said: “I wouldn’t say the current situation is unique. Certainly in my lifetime there have been environments which have felt more perilous than this one.”
Lovegrove said he was not worried about an increase in populist sentiment across the Continent either. The populist momentum that contributed to the U.K.’s exit from the EU and Donald Trump’s election in the U.S. is not in itself a significant threat to stability, he said.
“I would be very concerned if there was a sense of rising nationalism which undermined the rules-based order and allowed for conflicts to emerge more quickly — and for the dominant paradigm to become one of power and force rather than rules,” he said. “But I think it’s a bit early to say that this is going to happen.”
The department is vulnerable to currency fluctuations, Lovegrove admitted, because it buys large amounts of equipment from overseas, but reports that it faces added costs of up to £700 million due to post-Brexit uncertainty, are far from accurate, he said.
Lovegrove said he was standing by to lend expertise in strategic planning to fellow civil servants responsible for Brexit negotiations, but stressed Brexit will not be “like a war.”
President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a sweeping set of immigration-related executive actions jumpstarting a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, cracking down on sanctuary cities, and directing significant resources toward swifter deportations for undocumented immigrants currently in the country.
Less than a week into his presidency, Trump is following through on some of his biggest campaign plans, satisfying supporters eager to combat the flow of undocumented immigrants into the U.S. but alarming activists worried about rising xenophobia and a new era of mass deportations.
Trump, who signed the orders before around 70 people at the Department of Homeland Security around 1:30 p.m. Wednesday, overall has been focusing much of his energy on executive actions during his first week, having already cranked out documents undercutting Obamacare, freezing regulations, halting most federal government hiring, reining in abortion funding overseas, and advancing the Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines.
The first executive order signed on Wednesday directs DHS to use existing funding to begin work on the border wall, although its completion will require an appropriation from Congress, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said at the daily briefing.
“Building this barrier is more than just a campaign promise. It’s a common-sense first step to really securing our porous border,” Spicer said. “This will stem the flow of drugs, crime, illegal immigration into the United States. And yes, one way or another, as the president has said before, Mexico will pay for it.”
Spicer did not elaborate on how Mexico will be forced to fund a project that is certain to cost billions of dollars.
In an interview with ABC News taped Wednesday afternoon, Trump said construction would begin “as soon as we can. As soon as we can physically do it.”
“I would say in months, yeah,” he told ABC’s David Muir. “I would say in months. Certainly, planning is starting immediately.”
The president also scoffed at Mexico President Enrique Pena Nieto’s insistence that his country will not be paying for any border wall.
“I think he has to say that. He has to say that. But I’m just telling you there will be a payment,” Trump said. “It will be in a form, perhaps a complicated form, and you have to understand, what I’m doing is good for the United States. It’s also gonna be good for Mexico. We wanna have a very stable, very solid Mexico.”
Trump’s executive order on Wednesday, which begins the process of building the wall, also seeks to provide DHS more resources in general “to stop illegal immigration from entering the United States.” Spicer said the Trump administration will also seek to create more detention facilities for undocumented immigrants along the U.S. border, centers that he said would allow for swifter and cheaper deportations.
The second executive order focuses on immigration enforcement away from America’s borders. The press secretary said that “federal agencies are going to unapologetically enforce the law, no ifs, ands, or buts.” A program to aid Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in targeting undocumented immigrants for removal will be reinstated, Spicer said, and the State Department will withhold visas for nations who refuse to accept deportees being sent back to their home countries.
Federal grant money will be stripped from so-called sanctuary cities that harbor undocumented immigrants from the federal government, Spicer said, although he explained the particulars of how that will work have not yet been determined.
Absent from the directives is any mention of DACA, the controversial Obama administration program that currently spares minors illegally brought to the U.S. by their parents from the prospect of deportation. Spicer said more action related to DACA, the repeal of which remains a priority for conservatives, may come later in the week.
He also addressed fears felt by those young people, and the worries about their parents’ and relative’s potential deportations, and Hispanics more broadly.
“His priority is first and foremost people who are in this country that seek to do us harm,” Spicer said. “The president understands the magnitude of this problem. He is a family man. He understands. He has a huge heart. He understands the significance of this problem, but he is going to work through it with his team in a very humane way to make sure that he respects the situation that many of these children are in that were brought here. But his priority with respect to immigration is first and foremost making sure that people who are in this country that are seeking to do us harm or have committed a crime are at the forefront of that.”
Family members of people killed by immigrants in the United States illegally have been invited to participate in an executive signing ceremony, according to one person familiar with the event’s planning.
Trump made his hardline stance on immigration from Mexico and from countries with large Muslim populations a centerpiece of his campaign. He has promised to build a massive wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and to combat terrorism by applying “extreme vetting” to immigrants from countries known to foster what he calls “radical Islam.”
But there are significant obstacles. It’s not clear how such a wall will be financed, and Trump at times has seemed opened to having parts be a fence. His allies at times have spoken of a “virtual wall.”
On the issue of “extreme vetting,” it’s been unclear what standards would be used for the practice, and critics have said such an approach could backfire and be used as a recruiting tool for would-be terrorists.
The European Union can’t stop Britain from negotiating a new trade deal with the United States, the Commission’s chief Brexit negotiator said Wednesday.
Michel Barnier’s comments come ahead of a scheduled meeting between British Prime Minister Theresa May and U.S. President Donald Trump in Washington on Friday.
Asked about the U.K.’s ability to open discussions on its future trade relationship with the U.S. before it leaves the EU, Barnier said: “What could prevent countries from talking?”
But the U.K. remains a “part of the EU’s trade policy” until it leaves the Union, he added, speaking at an event in Oslo.
The extent to which Britain can engage in trade talks before it completes its exit from the bloc has been a source of tension between London and Brussels. On Monday Commission spokesperson Margaritis Schinas warned the U.K. that it is playing with fire by opening trade talks with Australia.
May has vowed to launch divorce proceedings by the end of March, with negotiations expected to conclude by March 2019.
The new liberal-conservative coalition in the European Parliament is pressuring Jean-Claude Juncker to appoint a liberal as vice president of the European Commission — putting a planned promotion for Germany’s Günther Oettinger in doubt.
Oettinger, a conservative, was moved from the digital portfolio to oversee the budget and human resources after Bulgaria’s Kristalina Georgieva, a Commission vice president, resigned in the fall to take a senior job at the World Bank.
But behind-the-scenes maneuvering in the Parliament may affect those plans.
In return for giving their support to Antonio Tajani of the European People’s Party (EPP) as Parliament president, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) struck a power-sharing deal, according to MEPs from both groups.
The agreement includes a commitment by the conservatives to push for “a more central role for ALDE within the Commission,” according to a participant in a closed door ALDE meeting on Monday.
While EPP chief Manfred Weber and ALDE leader Guy Verhofstadt have both declined to comment on their confidential deal, a senior EPP official confirmed its existence and content.
Weber spoke vaguely of an “upgrade” for an ALDE commissioner at a meeting with his group, one EPP MEP said, while acknowledging that the Parliament doesn’t have a say in the Commission’s dealings, according to another MEP.
Several liberal commissioners could be in the frame. According to Commission officials, the most likely to be promoted are Cecilia Malmström, who oversees trade, and competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager. Andrus Ansip, another liberal, is already a vice president. Violeta Bulc (transport) and Vĕra Jourová (justice, consumers and gender equality) are the other liberal commissioners.
Promoting Malmström or Vestager would not only accommodate the Parliament’s wishes but also solve a problem for Juncker caused by Georgieva’s departure: a dearth of women vice presidents. Of the six VPs, only one is a woman — foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini.
Malmström has developed a reputation as a defender of free trade and helped push through the huge trade deal with Canada, while Vestager’s rulings on Apple’s tax affairs in Ireland have raised her profile.
Commission vice presidents get paid more than other commissioners and wield more power, leading “project teams” of other commissioners.
If a liberal gets the nod, Oettinger would stay as a rank-and-file commissioner, unless Juncker decides to also give him a title — which would reflect the weight that Juncker wants a budget and HR commissioner to have in budget negotiations with the Parliament and EU countries, according to a senior Commission official.
There’s a bigger threat to Oettinger’s ambitions to move up a floor in the Commission’s Berlaymont headquarters: He’s German. One of the oldest rules of EU politics, a veteran EU official said, is that you can’t promote a German if you don’t promote a Frenchman too, especially a few months before French presidential elections.
While the parties involved in the deal claim that Juncker is mulling their request, Juncker’s spokesman Margaritis Schinas said the Commission is “not involved in any deal.”
The election of the president of the European Parliament was “solely an issue for political groups,” he said, indicating that Juncker did not meddle in the Parliament’s affairs and expects the same treatment from MEPs.
“The Treaty gives the Commission president full competence on the internal organization of the Commission,” Schinas said. “President Juncker will decide when the time is ripe” to name a vice president.
Italy’s Constitutional Court modified the electoral law on Wednesday, removing a potential obstacle to early elections.
The court delivered a mixed verdict on the law known as the Italicum but said in a statement that it “can be applied immediately upon the issue of the ruling.”
In the ruling on elections to the lower house of parliament, the court found that it is legitimate to award bonus seats to any party that wins more than 40 percent of the vote — unlikely according to current opinion polls — but rejected the mechanism for a second round run-off.
Italy has been awaiting the decision since Matteo Renzi’s resignation as prime minister last December, following his defeat in a referendum on constitutional reform. His place was taken by Paolo Gentiloni, who had been Renzi’s foreign minister.
President Sergio Mattarella has been unable to call fresh elections because of an anomaly whereby the upper and lower houses of parliament have different electoral laws. The ruling means parliament can now attempt to harmonize the rules for both houses.
Renzi pushed the Italicum through parliament last year, arguing that it would put an end to the political instability inherent in fragmented coalitions and revolving-door governments.
Renzi, who still leads the Democratic Party, has said he is in favor of holding elections in June, while the opposition 5-Star Movement and Northern League want elections as soon as possible.
Wolfgang Piccoli, an analyst at Teneo Intelligence, said the ruling “increases the likelihood of snap polls by June.”
The Italicum is now “an essentially proportional system with a 3 percent minimum threshold and a majority bonus … if the winning party secures at least 40 percent of the votes,” he wrote in a research note. “That any of the parties reaches this threshold is, however, an unlikely scenario given the fragmentation of the political system.”
The British government’s treatment of EU nationals who have applied for U.K. citizenship is to be investigated by the European Parliament.
A task force is to examine cases where EU citizens have faced a “bureaucratic wall” when seeking to remain in the U.K. after Brexit, the Guardian reported Wednesday.
Sophie in ’t Veld, a Dutch liberal MEP, said she planned to form the cross-party task force after Theresa May triggers Article 50 — which the British prime minister intends to do before the end of March — and official Brexit negotiations get underway.
She said she will also request that a representative of the British government — ideally the prime minister — travel to Brussels to face the Parliament’s committee on civil liberties, of which she is a member, and answer questions about EU nationals who believe they have been treated unfairly since the Brexit vote.
“We have been calling repeatedly for Mrs. May to come before the European Parliament and I think she should come, at the latest, once Article 50 has been triggered. We are going to put questions to her on behalf of British and other EU citizens.
“Once Article 50 has been triggered, and negotiations have started, I want to have a task force inside the European Parliament that citizens can contact directly so that we can have a clear idea of the difficulties people are facing and try to help. Brexit will be partly a technical negotiation, but ultimately it is about people. The consequence cannot be that millions of people are penalized.”
In ’t Veld told the Guardian that “people feel they are being harassed” and asked to fill in excessive, and some feel unnecessary, amounts of paperwork.
“Why is the British government trying to make it so hard for people who have been living in the U.K. for decades, who have set up a family there, work there? It is their home.
“What sort of signal are they trying to send out to these people? I am not aware of U.K. nationals trying to apply for citizenship elsewhere in the EU running into these kind bureaucratic walls. I am not saying it doesn’t exist but I have not heard of it yet. I can only suppose other countries are a bit more welcoming and facilitating.”
In her big Brexit speech last week, May said she wanted a deal on the future of British citizens living in the EU and EU nationals in the U.K. as soon as possible. But so far there is no such agreement.
According to the Guardian, Home Office figures show a 50 percent increase in the number of applicants from EU countries seeking permanent British residency since the Brexit vote in June. It rose from 36,555 between April and June 2016 to 56,024 between July and September.
Bulgarian President Rumen Radev has appointed a caretaker government ahead of snap elections on March 26, Reuters reported Wednesday.
Radev, who took office earlier this month, was forced to call an early parliamentary election after the country’s center-right government resigned following its presidential candidate’s defeat in elections late last year.
The president is expected to dissolve the parliament and install the caretaker government on Friday.
Former parliamentary speaker Ognyan Gerdzhikov is slated to become interim prime minister, while current deputy finance minister Kiril Ananiev will take over as finance minister and Bulgarian ambassador to Germany Radi Naidenov will become foreign minister.
Radev’s decision to appoint Naidenov is considered a move that reaffirms Sofia’s commitment to its EU and NATO allies, according to Reuters.
Radev, a Russia-friendly political newcomer, campaigned on promises to improve ties with the Kremlin and lift EU sanctions on Russia.
Brussels is worried that the Romanian government’s proposal to let non-violent criminals out of jail before their sentences are completed will undermine the fight against corruption, the European Commission said Wednesday.
The Social Democrat government in Bucharest says the aim is to relieve overcrowding in prisons, but the opposition views it as a ruse to free politicians convicted of corruption. There were public protests last week against the draft emergency decree to commute sentences and the Romanian president has called for a referendum on the issue.
The Commission praised the work of the Romanian Anti-Corruption Directorate (DNA), which “has established an impressive track record in terms of solving high and medium-level corruption cases.” But attacks by politicians and the media on the justice system are a threat to such efforts, it said, advising Romanian authorities to avoid “negative steps which call into question the progress made so far.”
The Commission’s warning came in a footnote to an annual report presented Wednesday that is part of a monitoring scheme of Romania and neighboring Bulgaria’s progress in weeding out corruption and strengthening the judiciary.
The scheme has been in place since the two countries joined the EU 10 years ago and Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker wants to end it by October 2019, when his term in office expires. Clear targets for that date should “act as an incentive to accelerate the process,” said one Commission official.
The Commission’s outlook for Bulgaria was bleaker than for Romania. “Over the past 10 years, overall progress has not been as fast as hoped for. A number of significant challenges remain to be addressed,” the report said.
While Bulgaria has made some progress on judicial reform, its anti-corruption strategy is still at an early stage and whoever takes over the government after March’s snap elections “will need to drive reform forward to secure irreversible results,” the report said.
Romania and Bulgaria want an end to the corruption monitoring scheme, which they say is used by other EU countries as an excuse to keep them out of the passport-free Schengen zone. The Commission denies there is any link between the two issues.
 
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump will invite British Prime Minister Theresa May to visit him “right after” his inauguration and will strike a “fair” trade agreement with the U.K. “very quickly,” he told the Times in an interview published Sunday.
Brexit “is going to end up being a great thing” and other countries will follow the U.K.’s lead out of the EU, largely as a result of the migration crisis, Trump said.
The interview will boost campaigners pushing May to agree to a hard Brexit with Britain outside the European single market and will worry many among the Continent’s Establishment. Trump’s desire to strike a deal with President Vladimir Putin is likely to be welcomed by Russia but his comments will provoke concern in Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic countries.
“I do believe this, if they [EU countries] hadn’t been forced to take in all of the refugees, so many, with all the ­problems that it … entails, I think that you wouldn’t have a Brexit,” Trump said. “It probably could have worked out but this was the final straw, this was the final straw that broke the camel’s back … I believe others will leave.”
The interview, the first extensive comments to European press since Trump became president-elect, was conducted by Michael Gove, a columnist for the Times and former U.K. justice secretary, and Kai Diekmann, publisher and former editor of Bild newspaper. Gove, who worked for the Times before being elected to the U.K. parliament, was a prominent Brexit campaigner during Britain’s referendum in June and was sacked by May after he failed in a bid to become prime minister following the Brexit vote.
Trump said that while he had “great respect” for Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel, “she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals, you know, taking all of the people from wherever they come from.”
He added that the EU was pandering to Germany, at others’ expense.
“You look at the European Union and it’s Germany. Basically a vehicle for Germany. That’s why I thought the U.K. was so smart in getting out.”
While Russia’s actions in Syria were “a very bad thing” and had led to a “terrible ­humanitarian situation,” the U.S. president-elect said he intended to start his presidency trusting Putin and Merkel.
“Well, I start off trusting both — but let’s see how long that lasts. It may not last long at all,” he said.
Trump, who will be inaugurated Friday, said he hoped to strike a deal with Russia to reduce its nuclear capability in exchange for sanctions relief.
“They have sanctions on Russia — let’s see if we can make some good deals with Russia. For one thing, I think nuclear weapons should be way down and reduced very substantially, that’s part of it.”
Trump has previously said it might not be bad if countries such as South Korea, Japan and Saudi Arabia developed nuclear weapons for self defense.
On NATO, Trump said he was committed to the alliance, but added that the U.S. paid more than its fair share and the organization had not adapted to today’s threats.
“I said a long time ago that NATO had problems. No. 1 it was obsolete, because it was designed many, many years ago. No. 2 the countries aren’t paying what they’re supposed to pay. I took such heat, when I said NATO was obsolete. It’s obsolete because it wasn’t taking care of terror… With that being said, NATO is very important to me.”
The incoming president also said he planned to sign orders next Monday to strengthen U.S. border control, which would include travel restrictions on Europeans visiting the country and “extreme vetting” of those entering the U.S. from parts of the world known for Islamic terrorism.
Trump said he intended to appoint his son-in-law Jared Kushner to forge a Middle East peace deal, and called on the U.K. to veto any U.N. Security Council resolutions critical of Israel.
On a sunny late September day, a trio of tourists gathered on Moscow’s Red Square. Well-dressed, carrying a Russian flag, the visitors bunched in front of the Kremlin’s walls to snap a selfie. Like so many others before, the man taking the photo, Louis Marinelli, took to his Twitter account, and shared the shot for the world.
But Marinelli wasn’t your average American tourist, and neither were his friends. That weekend, Marinelli was ensconced in a conference room in the capital, where he delivered a speech for an unusual cause: the secession of California from the United States. “As not only a representative of the nation of California, but also as the founder and the leader of the independence movement as recognized by the state of California itself, it is my honor to speak on behalf of my people at this conference on the right of self-determination,” Marinelli told his audience. “Our campaign exists to explain why we should free ourselves from the shackles of statehood, and instead embrace the freedoms of nationhood.”
The strategic advantage of making an argument for the secession of an American state to an audience in central Moscow is hard to gauge; after all, it’s voters in the States who would decide this matter. But the value to Russian interests seems more obvious, at least in the estimation of the leader of a separate and competing California secession movement, who actually lives in the state.
“YesCalifornia isn’t a Californian movement,” said Jed Wheeler, the General Secretary of the California National Party (CNP). “YesCalifornia is a movement whose optics are all designed for a Russian audience to reinforce [Vladimir] Putin, by talking about…how terrible America is, and reinforcing [the idea that] Putin is this great guy who is admired all over the world.”
While the conference was going on, of course, the Kremlin-led hacking campaign against the Democratic National Committee was having its effect on the American presidential election, a provocation that has unwound relations between Moscow and Washington (with the exception of the president-elect) to their lowest levels since the pre-Gorbachev days. Since the election, while Washington (again with the exception of the president-elect) debates what the response should be for Russia’s meddling in the American political process, Marinelli and his handful of supporters are flaunting their ties with Russia, or at least the ones they hope to build. To that end, in mid-December, Marinelli held a press conference, helpfully covered by the state-run RT television station, declaring the opening of a “California Embassy” in Moscow.
It would be easy to dismiss all this as nonsense driven by publicity-hungry amateurs, but people who know the Russian political playbook say winking at these fringe movements—and even giving them a boost—is a part of a very real strategy. Not only is this a way of puffing Russia’s domestic claims at turmoil in the U.S., but it fits firmly within the Kremlin’s modus operandi of cultivating fringe groups in the West—including, most especially, those who would fracture the United States in a reprise of the Soviet Union’s demise, over a quarter-century later.
* * *
Marinelli is by no means the first North American separatist who’s caught Moscow’s eye. In the late 1960s the Kremlin considered cultivating Quebec separatists to further its own geopolitical ends, but eventually opted for more conventional means during the Cold War. For the past few years, however, those close to Moscow—including those whose books remain assigned to students at Russia’s General Staff Academy—have been constructing ties with white ethno-state separatists: the same brand who backed Donald Trump with such fervor in the presidential election. Recently, Russia’s gaze has fallen primarily upon Texas. As POLITICO Magazine found in mid-2015, actors tied to the Kremlin had begun cultivating links with higher-ups at the Texas Nationalist Movement, the most prominent separatist group in Texas. Russian backing for the cause ranges from meetings in St. Petersburg to chat about secession to Russian bots Tweeting exhortations to “Free Texas!” There are even instances of local Russian officials barking calls to arm Mexico ­to reclaim territory lost to the U.S. (The second-most-popular Texas secessionist Facebook page, with its mangled English and Russian grammatical constructs, may well be a Kremlin Astroturf operation.)
But where the Texas Nationalist Movement has sought to blur its links in Moscow—you’ll find little public information about Smith’s visit to Russia in September—Marinelli hasn’t been nearly so coy about his Russian ties. Not only does Marinelli readily acknowledge he lives in Russia, but he has compared his planned California independence referendum on par with a Crimean “referendum” that was recognized by only a handful of tin-pot dictatorships. Marinelli has further compared his appeals to the Kremlin to, curiously, American revolutionaries’ pleas to Paris, positioning himself—or his Russian contacts—as something of a redux of Marquis de Lafayette.
But Marinelli’s rise to the forefront of the YesCalifornia campaign over the past few months has been unexpected for a handful of other reasons. Up until a few years ago, Marinelli — who, along with other YesCalifornia supporters, did not return multiple requests for comment — placed himself firmly on the theologically conservative end of the spectrum, working with the National Organization for Marriage to oppose same-sex marriage. Homophobia certainly has its supporters in the upper reaches of the Kremlin, but Marinelli has since recanted his views, making him far more palatable as an advocate for secession in one of the most liberal states in America.
That’s not the only puzzling thing in Marinelli’s background. He’s originally from New York, and up until 2014 he’d spent more years living in Russia than living in California. When he first latched onto the California independence movement, other members of the secession push quickly butted heads with Marinelli and his beliefs. Marinelli “seemed like bad news,” the CNP’s Wheeler told me. “At the point where Louis Marinelli came out as an anti-vaxxer—he believes that vaccines are a federal government conspiracy — I said, ‘I want nothing to do with you — you’re freakin’ radioactive.’” While the CNP, which models itself on the Scottish National Party, maintains a raft of progressive policies, ranging from infrastructural upkeep to universal health care, party higher-ups quickly realized that Marinelli’s views didn’t gel with the group’s political ends. Marinelli, after all, claims he supported Bernie Sanders’ candidacy during the 2016 Democratic primaries, but admits that he voted for President-elect Donald Trump in the general election. As Wheeler said, “Louis used [Hillary Clinton’s candidacy] as his excuse to say, ‘Oh, well I’m Bernie or bust, and this is my bust — and I’m moving to Russia.”’
Marinelli’s official reason for moving to Yekaterinburg, according to interviews he’s given to Russian media, stems from immigration issues for his wife, who is a Russian national. (“That’s bullshit,” Wheeler said, pointing out Marinelli’s inability to find a job in California.) Marinelli made the move sound like it was more principle than paycheck, telling Kremlin-funded RT that he “could no longer live under an American flag.”
Whatever the reason for the move, Marinelli quickly found a welcome in Russia from Ionov, the twenty-something head of the Anti-Globalization Movement of Russia, a group that describes its mission as “support[ing] countries and peoples who are opposing the dictates of a unipolar world and seeking an alternative agenda.” Ionov also maintains ties to Rodina, a group founded by Kremlin Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, and sits on the board of the Anti-Maidan organization, a group led by one of Putin’s forfriends that seeks to squelch anti-Kremlin rhetoric.
Ionov has organized at least two secessionist conferences in Russia since 2015. (For Ionov and his group, there’s apparently little difference between pushing secession in the West and advocating nominally anti-globalist positions.) The first conference featured representatives from Puerto Rican, black nationalist, and Hawaiian independence movements — the latter of which was led by a convicted felon who’d spent 13 years in prison for stealing more than half a million dollars — alongside Irish splinter groups and Catalonians from Spain. This year, though, Ionov managed to land tens of thousands of dollars in Kremlin financing, enough to help expand his secessionist roster.
In September, sitting next to their counterparts from Italy’s far-right Northern League and Moldova’s separatist Transnistria region, Smith and Marinelli offered their spiels for their Russian audience. (At this point, the only US secession movements, out of about half a dozen notable ones, that lack any clear Kremlin links are the so-called Cascadian (West Coast liberals who are toying with a bid to join Canada) and Alaskan groups.) In an interview with Salon following the conference, a representatives from the Texas Nationalist Movement offered the first, firm tie between Kremlin monies and American separatists, admitting that that Ionov’s group helped finance the Texans’ travel to Moscow.
In an interview, Ionov feigned surprise that those in the West would view his conferences—and his funding from the Kremlin—as cause for concern. “We’re working within the frame of international laws, and don’t want to violate international laws,” Ionov said. “I don’t understand why Western media says I want to destroy the West, or make U.S. states secede from the country.”
The notion, he said, that he’s a “Kremlin puppet, sent by Putin to destroy the West, is ridiculous.” (As Vice’s Alec Luhn found, Ionov’s office features a letter from Putin, thanking him for his “work to strengthen friendship between people.”)
Of course, Putin’s attaboy hasn’t stopped Ionov from offering his services toWestern secession movements—while completely ignoring Russian separatists from places from Karelia or Siberia, who continue to be fined and jailed for their views. That’s because, for Ionov, such Russian separatist movements don’t actually exist.
“Nowadays,” Ionov told me via email over the summer, “the so-called Russian secession movements were artificially created by US intelligence in order to destabilize [the] political situation. … The western secession movements exist as an opposition to US imperialism, violence and hatred. And all of them love us, Russians, because we are good, kind and beautiful:)))”
* * *
Indeed, the notion that Russia is guiding American secessionist movement is, on its face, farcical; such movements, especially in Texas’s case, predate both Putin and post-Soviet Russia alike. But that doesn’t make the links—financial and otherwise—any less glaring. If anything, these ties are only growing. While a Trump victory may have taken the wind out of the sails of those who would like to return Texas to nationhood, interest in California’s independence push has spiked following the November election. Trump booster and Silicon Valley mogul, Peter Thiel, told The New York Times last week he is a proponent of secession. (“I think it would be good for California, good for the rest of the country,” Thiel said. “It would help Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign.”) And thanks to the efforts of both Marinelli and Ionov, California now has its first, if unofficial, “embassy” abroad—located in, of all places, Moscow.
Backed by photos of Putin, Hugo Chavez, Fidel Castro and Muammar Qaddafi, Marinelli and Ionov officially unveiled the “embassy” in mid-December, pitching it as “bridge between California and Russia” and a way to “gain Russian support for California independence.” While the “embassy” won’t be issuing any passports or visas anytime soon, the sham operation represents the most formal tie between Russia and those who’d wish independence for California. For good measure, Ionov sent me a photo of an “activist” wearing an Obama mask, ironing a tablecloth in front of a sign welcoming visitors to the “Embassy of the Independent Republic of California.”
And the action in this strange drama isn’t confined only to Russia.
A few weeks ago, members of YesCalifornia, meeting in San Francisco, attempted to hang a one-story-high banner highlighting the Kremlin’s support for their movement. (Their efforts were thwarted by an “undercover police officer,” a YesCalifornia rep later said.) As featured on a Russian propaganda outlet, the banner, unfurled by a pair of Marinelli’s colleagues, declared that “California and Russia will always be friends!”—and included, at the top, a larger-than-life shot of Putin, winking at those passing by.
Casey Michel is a writer living in New York, and can be followed on Twitter at @cjcmichel.
The gloves — or maybe make that the blinkers — come off this week in the great Brexit drama.
British Prime Minister Theresa May is on Tuesday going to unveil a harder than expected U.K. position in the coming divorce talks with Europe. Its contours were signaled for months and specified in the messages that came out of Downing Street over the weekend: Britain is out — out of the single market, out of the customs union, out of the free movement zone.
That’s what Brexit means, after all. And if Brussels doesn’t like it, is the message from London, Brussels can go hang.
After months in which anyone hoping to discover Britain’s negotiation strategy was forced to read between the lines of cryptic, sometimes contradictory statements from ministers, at last there is clarity.
In a media blitz Sunday, Downing Street released excerpts from May’s big Brexit speech on Tuesday, and briefed Sunday newspapers that Britain is preparing for a so-called “clean Brexit.”
The Sunday Times and the Sunday Telegraph reported that this will mean out of the single market and the customs union, in order to regain British control over immigration from the EU, and to release Britain from the authority of the European Court of Justice.
On the all-important question of immigration, government sources told POLITICO that May’s officials are working on plans for controls across the board, at all skill levels. Even the mighty City of London has yielded to political reality and dropped its demands for “passporting” rights to sell their services throughout the single market.
May’s hardline stance will delight the powerful Euroskeptic wing of her party, but will leave the defeated Remainers aghast that their worst fears for a “hard Brexit” are coming true. There will also be jitters on financial markets, which despite their retreat on passporting will now be bracing for a fall in the pound as currency markets face up to the reality that Britain is leaving the single market.
Europe, meanwhile, may be taken aback by the stridency of Britain’s position. Michael Barnier, the European Commission’s chief negotiator, had signaled a softer stance with a suggestion reported by the Guardian of a special relationship to maintain European access to British banks, which the Commission subsequently backed away from this weekend. The question facing Europe now is whether May is completely serious, or whether, as many on the Continent suspected after her October conference speech, talk of hard Brexit is more about getting her MPs onside before the inevitable compromises of the negotiation.
Only time will tell whether May is bluffing or not. On Sunday, she deployed a stick and carrot strategy to keep the EU guessing. Two of May’s key ministers have been deployed as good cop and bad cop — and they’re not the ones you might expect.
Philip Hammond, May’s Chancellor, is considered a moderating influence in the cabinet, and has been eager to ensure the British economy is not sacrificed on the altar of hard Brexit. But in an interview with Welt am Sonntag, also published Sunday, he issued a thinly veiled threat that if Britain doesn’t get the bespoke market access it wants from the EU — for cars, pharmaceuticals and financial services — London won’t hesitate to change its economic model, lowering the corporate tax rate in order to remain “competitively engaged.”
“You can be sure we will do whatever we have to do,” Hammond said, in uncharacteristically strident terms. “The British people are not going to lie down and say, too bad, we’ve been wounded.”
Meanwhile, the longstanding Euroskeptic and Brexit Secretary David Davis took up column inches in the Sunday Times, to reassure Europe that Britain doesn’t want the EU to fail, and that London is open to the idea of a transitional arrangement before the new relationship comes into force. But he couldn’t resist a little threat of his own, telling Brussels that he believes a “disorderly” Brexit poses as much, if not more, risk to the European economy as the British.
The message couldn’t be clearer, Britain is prepared to play hardball.
Risk to the pound
The strategy is not without risk, some of it immediate. Currency markets have responded dramatically to previous hints from the U.K. on its intentions vis a vis the single market. A suggestion from Davis in December that the U.K. might continue to pay into the EU budget in exchange for some degree of market access saw the pound surge. It plunged again last week on the mere suggestion from May that Britain wouldn’t try to cling on to “bits” of EU membership.
Downing Street fully expects that new clarity about the U.K.’s hardline stance will trigger some turbulence for the pound. Government officials told the Sunday Times they were anticipating a “market correction” — which in Whitehall speak means, potential collapse of sterling when markets open Monday.
In truth, there is nothing completely unexpected about May’s position. Ever since she told the Conservative party conference that her priority was to take back control of immigration and leave the jurisdiction of the ECJ, single market membership has been off the table.
However, the hardening of language used by the one-time soft Brexit advocate Hammond is indicative that the three Brexiteers in the Cabinet — Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, Trade Secretary Liam Fox, and Davis — are winning the argument. On the customs union in particular, if the government sees through its apparent intention to leave, it will mark a victory for Fox’s vision of a free-trading Britain, able to strike its own bilateral deals with third countries independent of the EU. This idea of a “Global Britain” is at the heart of the government’s Brexit communication strategy. May is expected to land the phrase in her big speech this week, and Hammond — again, speaking for the first time like a red-blooded Brexiteer — told Welt am Sonntag that Europe needed to “respect the British people’s sense that our history and our destiny is an engagement with the wider world and not just with the European continent.
“Historically we have never been a nation that was focused on continental Europe. We have been a nation that has been focused beyond that, to the wider world,” he said, in words that — coming from him — signal a profound axis shift for U.K. foreign policy.
May’s speech this week, to be delivered at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s Lancaster House, a 180-year-old relic from the heyday of the British Empire, will seek to end the internal argument about Brexit.
“The overwhelming majority of people — however they voted — say we need to get on and make Brexit happen,” she is expected to say, according to a briefing from Downing Street. “Business isn’t calling to reverse the result, but planning to make a success of it. And the House of Commons has voted overwhelmingly for us to get on with it too.
“So the country is coming together. Now we need to put an end to the division and the language associated with it — Leaver and Remainer and all the accompanying insults — and unite to make a success of Brexit and build a truly Global Britain.”
Clarity from the government has also made the lines in May’s domestic battle with opposition parties more distinct. Hammond’s threat on corporation tax gives new life to Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn’s attack line that Britain risks becoming a “bargain basement economy on the shores of Europe” and gives credence to his claim to be fighting for a Brexit that isn’t geared only to the needs of big business.
Speaking on the BBC’s Andrew Marr show he appeared to have found his voice on Brexit, stridently warning that Hammond’s threat risked “some kind of trade war with Europe” that would be damaging for all.
However, Labour is still in a quandary on the question of immigration, and will have to reconcile its call for single market access to be a priority, with ever stronger calls from within the party for a tougher stance on freedom of movement.
The centrist Liberal Democrats have no such problem, and appeared galvanized by May’s confirmation of the hard Brexit approach. The party is pro-EU and wants a second referendum — the harder the Brexit May goes for, the easier it will be to define themselves as the alternative for the 48 per cent who voted Remain, and any of those who voted Leave now having second thoughts. Leader Tim Farron issued a statement Sunday describing May’s strategy as “incredibly reckless” with a warning that the economy could be hurt “for generations to come.”
Republican bundlers have been aggressively lobbying Donald Trump’s transition team for plum diplomatic posts in Western Europe — but so far have been met with almost no vetting, according to transition sources and top donors, despite the past business troubles of some contenders.
Trump’s moneyed donors are especially driven to jockey now for the ambassador positions, given that President Barack Obama’s current appointees have been notified that they have to vacate their posts by Jan. 20.
The president-elect has also accelerated the timetable for some of the highest-profile ambassador slots, having already named his representatives for Israel and China – longtime bankruptcy lawyer David Friedman and Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad, respectively.
For the more swanky posts in Western Europe, top donors including New York real estate developer Peter Kalikow and financiers Lew Eisenberg and Duke Buchan have already received word from the Trump transition that they’re being considered for prime postings in Italy and Spain, top donor and transition sources say.
Despite the rush, candidates for the posts say they have not heard from transition officials about the intensive background checks which typically take about three months for the White House personnel office and FBI to review. This includes a 47-query questionnaire, a SF-86 financial form for security clearance and a SF-278 Public Financial Disclosure Report that details every stock, bond and asset.
Those close to the ambassador selection process are privately worrying that some of Trump’s high-net-worth donors with extensive business histories and little foreign policy experience may end up running into significant headwinds before the Senate during the confirmation process if the vetting process doesn’t crank up soon.
The problem has become more acute since Senate Republicans were forced to slow down the confirmation hearing schedule for Trump’s Cabinet appointees after Democrats squawked about how much of the ethics and financial paperwork for the Office of Government Ethics had not yet been submitted.
“You’re not supposed to announce the [nominees] until you have the vetting, the questionnaire and the agreement [from the foreign government],” said former ambassador to Yemen Barbara Bodine, who spent 33 years in the foreign service. “It’s dangerous to short-circuit the process. It means that after they are publicly announced if something comes up that would bar them from taking the job then you have egg on your face. It’s unwise as well as inappropriate.”
The vetting process is designed to weed out early the problematic political appointees for ambassadorships, who tend to be wealthy donors who are typically designated to glamorous but less strategic countries in Western Europe and the Caribbean, known informally as “cocktail ambassadors.”
They make up about 30 percent of the top diplomatic corps, while the deputy chief of mission — a career diplomat – typically runs the operations of the embassy.
And the process for putting in place new ambassadors usually takes months, meaning many of Trump’s foreign embassies could be without a top political appointee for an extended period of time. During Obama’s second term, very few of his new politically appointed ambassadors made it to their posts before the summer of 2013 after the vetting and confirmation hearings.
Some of Obama’s appointees represented a cautionary tale about vetting after they produced several cringe-inducing moments during the Senate confirmation process. Noah Bryson Mamet, who was seeking a post in Argentina, and hotel magnate George Tsunis, who was nominated for an ambassadorship in Norway, both admitted during their hearings that they had never visited the countries where they sought to represent the U.S. Tsunis never made it through the hearing because of his lack of knowledge of the country. He thought Norway was a Republic instead of a Monarchy and had very little knowledge of the political situation in the country. Mamet was ultimately confirmed.
In-depth knowledge about Western European countries could be even more critical for Trump’s nominees, given that it’s a fraught time in the region with ongoing negotiations about Britain leaving the European Union and a rising nationalist movement that is driving an anti-immigration push. There’s also the debate over the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the U.S.-EU trade deal that has hit a number of road blocks.
But donors under consideration by Trump’s transition team could run into problems deeper than their foreign policy expertise, given their extensive business dealings. Those who have served in the foreign posts say an early vetting process is critical because the questionnaires don’t just ask about prior legal issues but also grey topics like ethical, behavioral and judgement issues.
“[There are] questions about your questionable ethics, doubtful behavior because it could be used to impugn you by the government where you’re representing the U.S.,” said Philip Hughes, senior vice president at the Council of American Ambassadors, who was a former ambassador to Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean under George H.W. Bush. “That’s why we take special care to make sure that ambassadors are of good character because those judgments will affect how we conduct business abroad.”
Some donors under consideration by Trump’s transition team have already publicly battled financial and legal troubles.
Kalikow, as former owner of the New York Post in the late 1980s, filed for personal bankruptcy protection in 1991 and left many employees without millions of dollars in pensions. In his business dealings as a New York City developer, he gained a reputation for being ruthless in his plans to take down rent regulated apartments in exchange for luxury housing. He also was scolded by the New York City Buildings Department for violating building code by sneaking in an extra floor to a 31-floor apartment building. Kalikow gave $449,000 to Trump Victory fund, a fundraising arm of the campaign.
Kalikow did not respond to a request for comment.
Hughes, the former ambassador, said in general that business history can factor into nominations and said government questionnaires ask ambassadorial candidates about bankruptcies and any bad credit records to assess the candidates’ “prudent stewardship of money.”
“If you can’t successfully manage your own money how would you manage the government’s money as an ambassador?” he asked.
Buchan, the CEO of Hunter Global Investors L.P. who gave nearly $900,000 to Trump Victory, also has run into public scrutiny for his business engagements.
He was mentioned in a 2006 Senate report on tax haven abuses that details a federal lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission against billionaire brother Sam Wyly and Charles Wyly for allegedly hiding $550 million in trading profits by using an “elaborate sham system” of offshore entities. In the report, Buchan was named as a member of the board of directors for four companies that were allegedly used by the Wyly brothers in the scheme — Michaels Stores Inc., Sterling Software Inc., Sterling Commerce Inc. and Scottish Annuity & Life Holdings Ltd.
“Mr. Buchan has not been offered any position in the new administration and won’t comment on considerations being made by the transition,” said his spokesperson Kevin Madden.
“Mr. Buchan does not own or direct companies. He runs a diversified fund of investors that invests in publicly traded companies and other funds.”
Another candidate for Italy, financier Eisenberg, a Trump loyalist, has the confidence of the transition team to get through brutal Senate hearings, a transition official said, despite public reports that he was forced to resign from Goldman Sachs in 1989 after a former assistant filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against him.
The transition official sited two corrections in Crain’s and the New York Observer that apologize to Eisenberg for referencing a lawsuit that was later dismissed by the accuser and recanted as proof that the incident is a non-issue. Eisenberg did not respond to a request for comment.
“Anyone we do put forward and formally say we want this person to assume a position, it’s because we’re confident that it’s a confirmable position and that they’re fully up to the job,” said a transition official.
“For Lew Eisenberg, the transition team is very comfortable that this issue has been publically dismissed and has no merit,” the official added, noting Eisenberg’s loyalty to Trump. “Lew’s a different situation, because he’s been so active.”
On the other hand, some nominees may fly through confirmation hearings but once they take up office they have a less than impressive showing. U.S. ambassador to France Jane D. Hartley, a major Obama donor, has been mocked by the Parisian press once in the job for her poor French and for lack of influence in the country.
Bodine, the former ambassador to Yemen, said there’s usually no middle ground for the track record of ambassador appointees. “The issue is that they either tend to be absolutely fantastic or really really bad,” she said. “You don’t tend to get mediocre ambassadors.”
Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias will be kept out of future negotiations to reunify Cyprus after he “went rogue” and disrupted fragile talks in Geneva last week, according to two officials who follow the talks closely.
The next political meeting on how to ensure Cyprus’ security and independence, which has not yet been scheduled, will be between heads of government rather than foreign ministers. Greece’s Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras can represent his country following complaints by the United Nations and others about Kotzias’ behavior last Thursday.
The first-ever conference between Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders and the three countries charged with guaranteeing the Cyprus’ security and independence — Greece, Turkey and the U.K. — ended unexpectedly after just one day of talks.
The setback underscored the hard work that remains after 20 months of negotiations between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders, facilitated by the U.N. Both sides and the U.N. still insist it’s a matter of weeks, not months, before they reach a deal. However, they have only just started to broach the divide between Athens and Ankara, both of which will ultimately have to sign off on the agreement.
Despite weeks of shuttle diplomacy between the United Nations, the two Cypriot leaders and the three guarantor countries to lay the ground for a Cyprus peace deal at the negotiations in Geneva last week, Kotzias entered the conference with surprise demands for Turkey and Turkish Cypriots, including the full and quick withdrawal of Turkish forces, and reiterated them at an impromptu press conference during a break in the talks.
The Tsipras government seemed to soften Greece’s position on Friday in an informal position paper, stressing that Athens is determined to protect the “considerable momentum” built toward a “just and viable” deal to reunify Cyprus.
“In constant coordination and cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus, we will continue to process and put forward proposals based on the principles we have proclaimed in the areas of guarantees and security, in which we are involved,” the document said, adding that “aggressive” statements have no place in the talks.
Notably absent from Tsipras’ statement was some of the tough talk Kotzias gave on Thursday. In the press conference, Kotzias called for a fast withdrawal of the 30,000 or so Turkish troops stationed in the northern Turkish Cypriot area and announced that foreign ministers would meet again on January 23 — a date the conference parties had not agreed to.
“We believe — and I think rightly so — that the system of guarantees must be eliminated,” he said. “Regarding the withdrawal of the army, we want, first of all, the flow to be continuous, a large withdrawal the first week, if not from the first day, and afterwards a continuous withdrawal. There should be a specific deadline.”
The Greek foreign affairs ministry could not be reached for comment.
On Sunday, Kotzias told reporters in Paris that it was the Turks who were to blame for the Geneva conference’s failure, and stressed that Greece wants to use European and international law, wants Cyprus to have sovereignty, and wants to make sure as many rights as possible are given to Turkish Cypriots and the “maximum sense of security” to Greek Cypriots, according to the Greek news site Kathimerini.
He also said that he, U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres and Nicos Anastasiades, the Greek Cypriot leader and Cyprus’ internationally recognized president, were ready to continue the political talks on Friday, but that the Turkish team left that Friday morning. Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state, told reporters on Friday that he and the Turkish team were willing to have the senior civil servants meet that day, but that Greece needed more time to prepare.  
Kotzias’ comments on Thursday angered Anastasiades, who didn’t know about the press conference, and raised tension when the conference resumed on Thursday evening.
Turkey’s Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu and Akıncı kept calm but firm in response, according to a source in the room.
However, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan came out swinging with an equally tough stance on Friday. “We have told Cyprus and Greece clearly that they should not expect a solution without Turkey as guarantor. We are going to be there forever,” he said, according to Reuters.
Greek Cypriots want to get rid of the system created in 1960 that gives Greece, Turkey and the U.K. the power to protect the island’s independence and security, saying it’s outdated and unnecessary for a European Union member. Turkish Cypriots, however, are reluctant to push out Turkey, which is the only country that has officially recognized their government since Cyprus was divided in 1974.
Anastasiades and Akıncı have talked about gradually phasing out the guarantee powers and Turkish troops — although they still differ on the number of years and extent of the withdrawal.
The Geneva conference was expected to run for at least a couple of days to give the negotiators a chance to dig into the issue, with the aim of ending with a broad political agreement on how to ensure security once Cyprus is reunified. The hope was that the agreement would clear the way for Anastasiades and Akıncı to work out the last outstanding issues and organize a referendum in the coming months.
Instead, it broke off late on Thursday night and will resume with a working group meeting between high-level civil servants from all sides on Wednesday, after which political leaders aim to meet again soon.
This article was updated to include Kotzias’ comments on Sunday evening.
Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley billionaire and outspoken Donald Trump supporter, is considering a 2018 bid for California governor, according to three Republicans familiar with his thinking.
Thiel, who co-founded PayPal and was an early investor in Facebook, has been discussing a prospective bid with a small circle of advisers, including Rob Morrow, who has emerged as his political consigliere.
Morrow has worked at Clarium Capital, the San Francisco-based investment management firm and hedge fund that Thiel started.
Those who have been in touch with the 49-year-old entrepreneur are skeptical that he’ll enter the race. He is a deeply private figure, and California is unfriendly territory for a Republican – particularly a pro-Trump one. The president-elect won just over 30 percent of the vote there.
But they add that Thiel has conspicuously yet to rule out a bid and that those around him continue to discuss it.
Adding fuel to the speculation: Thiel raised eyebrows this week when he granted a rare interview to the New York Times’ Maureen Dowd. In the interview, he outlined his political worldview and explained his support for Trump.(At one point, Thiel said, perhaps jokingly, that he’d be “fine” with California seceding. “I think it would be good for California, good for the rest of the country. It would help Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign,” he added.)
Neither Thiel nor a representative responded requests for comment.
Thiel, who delivered a primetime speech at last summer’s Republican National Convention, isn’t entirely new to the political scene. According to public filings, he has contributed over $8.5 million to federal candidates and committees since 2000. He speaks frequently with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, the most powerful Republican in California.
Other Trump backers are exploring bids for political office, too. Alan Cobb, who was a Trump campaign aide, is seen as a top contender for the Kansas congressional seat that GOP Rep. Mike Pompeo would vacate should he be confirmed as CIA director.
Whether Thiel pulls the trigger or not, Republicans in the Trump era are expecting a sizable number of business-minded political outsiders to wage 2018 bids for office. They include Randy Boyd, a wealthy Tennessee executive and minor league baseball team owner who is expected to run for governor in the state.
“Republicans have had great success at both the state and federal level in recent years electing candidates who had backgrounds in business, but who were political outsiders,” said Phil Cox, a former Republican Governors Association executive director. “With Trump’s victory, we’re going to see even more non-traditional candidates, with backgrounds in business, not politics, enter the political arena.”
Thiel, who is worth an estimated $2.7 billion, would fill an important need: The ability to self-fund. Waging a gubernatorial bid in California, where campaigns are famously expensive, could cost over $100 million.
He isn’t the only billionaire who may run. Environmentalist Tom Steyer, a prolific giver to Democratic causes, is also seen as a possible contender.
With Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown term-limited, several high-profile Democrats including former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, and state Treasurer John Chiang have already launched campaigns.
One hurdle for Thiel might be his past support for Newsom. In July 2015, according to California election records, he contributed over $56,000 to Newsom’s 2018 campaign.
The code name for the operation was “Royal Water,” English for the Latin-named “Aqua Regia” acid, which is powerful enough to dissolve gold.
That was how the small group of Hillary Clinton aides clued in to the top-secret identity of the man who played Donald Trump in debate preparations referred to him and his small team.
And for Philippe Reines—the colorful and famously combative longtime Clinton confidant who stepped into the role of Trump opposite his old boss in tense and testing mock sessions—it was the name of the project that drove him deep into Trump’s mind for three of the most bizarre months of his life.
Clinton’s chief gatekeeper in the Senate and at the State Department, Reines, 46, was a longtime clutch player in Clinton’s tight-knit and clubby inner circle. But until August, when the 2016 Democratic nominee signed off on his star turn as Trump, Reines had been kept at arm’s length from the ultimately doomed campaign, playing no official role. When he was finally handed one, Reines effectively took a three-month leave from his day job and went full method actor, cribbing from the all-in immersion techniques of Hollywood legends like Marlon Brando and Robert De Niro.
Reines purchased four podiums on Amazon, two for his home and two for the secret office the Clinton campaign lent him at the PerkinsCoie law firm in Washington, D.C. He searched eBay for a 2005 Donald J. Trump signature collection watch, which he purchased for $175. He experimented with a self-tanning lotion on his face. Before prep sessions, Reines began suiting up with velcro knee pads (to keep his legs straight), a posture enhancer (to keep his arms back), and dress shoes with three-inch lifts (to match Trump’s 6’1 frame). His longtime tailor fit him for a loose-fitting suit with large cuffs. His goal was not a “Saturday Night Live”-style caricature of Trump, so he didn’t try to replicate Trump’s famous mane. But he wanted to approximate his physicality so that Clinton would grow accustomed to Trump’s looming presence when she saw Reines in her peripheral vision.
He also sat down with Tony Schwartz, Trump’s ghostwriter-turned- tell-all critic, to better understand the man’s psychology. Hoping to fully become the character he had been cast to play, Reines briefly went off his meds (he declined to say which, or if he has since resumed them).
The preparations were conducted in such secrecy that Reines bought a bag with combination locks to store his prep materials while shuttling between his home and his temporary office. He became so anxious about accidentally leaving the bag in an Uber that he put a GPS locator on it and then shackled the entire contraption to his wrist.
At home, or in his secret office, Reines watched all 12 Republican primary debates three times, while standing behind one of his podiums—practice for the physical feat of simply standing still for 90 minutes. During his first viewing, he would watch the debate all the way through, taking notes. The second time, he would watch just for Trump’s lines and reaction shots, and the third time he would watch with the sound off, studying Trump’s mannerisms and body language.
Trump eventually defeated Clinton, but it wasn’t because he bested her in the debates, which former Clinton campaign officials still consider some of the few high points for the former secretary of state during a generally nasty and depressing campaign.
For Reines, who thought he was playing a historic role in helping elect the next president, the months he spent studying Trump’s every word and gesture have transformed into something else, now that Clinton lost and Trump won: They’ve given him a unique perspective into the mind and behavior of the president-elect.
Reines hasn’t talked about the experience publicly until now. But nine days before Trump was set to be sworn in as the country’s 45th president, he sat down with POLITICO and opened up about what living like Trump taught him about what to expect when Trump’s unusual psyche collides with the unique demands of the American presidency. Looking ahead to the inauguration and beyond, Reines thinks Trump’s biggest challenge is going to come from within himself.
“I want him to leave his brain to science, I’m just so curious,” Reines says. “We just need to understand because it’s a simultaneously scary yet fascinating person.”
* * *
Megan Rooney, then a Clinton speechwriter, was the first to think of Reines as a potential stand-in for Trump, back in May of 2016. There were skeptics within the Brooklyn headquarters, worried about bringing the flamethrowing aide back into the mix. But eventually staffers, including policy chief Jake Sullivan, realized that Reines’ famous temper, deep understanding of Clinton and ability to needle could, in fact, make for the perfect fit.
“Usually [Clinton] has a visceral reaction to my sheer presence,” Reines explained over a breakfast of pancakes and grapefruit juice at the Ritz-Carlton hotel, near Reines’ old stomping grounds in Foggy Bottom. “With principals and their press people, it becomes a bit of a Pavlovian response. It’s not like your spokespeople come in and say, ‘I have a great thing to tell you.’ It becomes a degree of, ‘What now?’ I knew how to push her buttons.”
As a staffer, Reines was not a standard choice for the gig, which often goes to established politicians with built-in staffs to help with all of the research and practice that comes with the role. In 2012, for instance, Sen. John Kerry played Mitt Romney opposite President Barack Obama in debate prep. In 2008, former White House counsel Greg Craig played Sen. John McCain. Aside from the help of three volunteers—Jeremy Barber, Kirsten Nelson and Stephanie Cohen, who kept him current on Trump’s tweets and other statements—Reines, however, was basically left on his own.
While subsuming himself in the mind and words of Trump, Reines saw certain patterns emerge—ones he doesn’t expect will change when the president-elect enters the White House.
He noticed lesser-known physical tics, like the fact that Trump never makes eye contact. To train himself to avoid looking at Clinton, Reines taped a big X on the opposite wall and stared at it intently.
In the first full mock debate session on September 1 (the Obama team pulled its full 2012 mock debate stage out of storage and lent it to the Clinton campaign), Clinton entered the room and saw her suited-up former aide standing at the podium in character. “Oh God, Philippe looks ready to be obnoxious,” Clinton joked to cut the tension. Reines focused on his X on the wall and didn’t acknowledge her. “I did not look at her for the next five hours,” he recalls. “We took a break for lunch, and I stood at the podium. She came walking by and said, ‘Aren’t you getting lunch?’ I didn’t answer her.”
“He is so annoying. Just unbelievably annoying. God, Philippe, so annoying,” Clinton said. To Reines, “that summarized the whole thing. It was impossible to tell who she was talking about.”
“Don’t worry about him, he’s just staying in character,” Ron Klain, who alongside attorney Karen Dunn oversaw the debate prep, assured her. “He’s going to go around and just take a little off of everyone else’s plate.”
Reines’ deeper takeaways about Trump, he says, give a hint of how the president-elect will govern. To try and anticipate where Trump might fall on an issue, or what he might do, the key is to think of him as innately contrarian, Reines advises.
He gave, as an example, Trump’s response at the first Republican primary debate in 2015, where he famously raised his hand to say he would not pledge to support the eventual Republican nominee. Before doing so, Trump quickly peeked at the other candidates on stage, checking to see that no one else’s hand was shooting up.
“The moderator said it would be a show of hands. Right there, that’s all the information he needed. If all of them had raised their hands, he wouldn’t have,” Reines says with confidence. “He smelled their hesitation, his hand shot up. At worst, he had a 50-50 chance of choosing right. The question didn’t even matter. It could have been, ‘Who wants a root canal?’” It was only of secondary importance that it also happened to be his position, Reines says. “He’s one of the most predictable unpredictable people.”
To attribute forethought to how and when Trump tweets, or how he comes to a decision, is to misunderstand the instinctual player who might not be strategic but certainly recognizes the upside of simply being himself, according to Reines. “I think of it like a pinball machine, where Congress are the bumpers, the machine says tilt, no one controls where the ball goes, and the player, at best, is just playing goalie,” says Reines. “Trump is not the player, he’s the ball,” he adds. “The truth is the ball doesn’t know what it’s about to do.”
President Trump will be more preoccupied with being able to declare success than with actually succeeding, Reines predicts. Trump, for instance, declared victory when Sprint agreed to keep 5,000 jobs in the United States. Those jobs, however, were part of a commitment that Sprint’s parent company had previously announced. Those details didn’t matter much to Trump. A photo-op at the groundbreaking of a wall along the Mexican border might be all he needs to declare the fabled project successfully underway, and move on.
Reines noticed that Trump has two modes: basically polite, and what he refers to as “hot under the collar.” The red-faced, finger-wagging, interrupting Trump was brought on mostly by people who just got under his skin, like Jeb Bush and then Clinton. “Jeb’s mere presence drove him crazy,” says Reines. “The pyschobabble part of me thinks it was because Jeb was the only person taller than him on stage. The less psycho-babble part of me thinks that in the back of his mind, he thought if someone was going to beat him it was probably the guy with $100 million.”
Another sure-fire way to get under his skin, Reines says, is to quote Trump back to Trump. “It was when Clinton quoted his tweet on climate change being a Chinese hoax that he went off the rails,” he says, referring to a moment in the first general-election debate when Trump interrupted Clinton multiple times to deny calling climate change a hoax. “He really doesn’t like being quoted back to him,” says Reines. “I think part of it is he might not remember what he said or wrote at any given time.”
But Trump’s “hot under the collar” mode flashes and then dissipates quickly. “He tends to move on,” Reines observes. Despite all of his lashing out against individuals and political foes, “it would be hard to find someone he has consistently beat up over the past two years. When you kick him in the shins, he kicks back. There’s no such thing as being the bigger person. But he moves on.”
Trump’s digs at Clinton since the election, for instance, have come only in retaliation: He slammed her on Twitter after the campaign joined the Jill Stein recount, and again on Friday, in reaction to her former aides emerging from hibernation to weigh in on the Justice Department’s investigation of FBI chief Jim Comey’s conduct during the election. But “he’s had a couple of glimpses of fundamentally respecting her,” Reines notes. When Trump backed off of his campaign promise to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the former secretary of state, for instance, Trump said of the Clintons, “They’re good people. I don’t want to hurt them.”
Trump’s most famously cutting insults—“Little Marco,” “Lyin Ted”—were also what Reines calls his “in case of emergency, break glass” moves. “He didn’t start out there,” Reines says. “When Trump called him Little Marco, it’s because that was all that was left. It was a last-ditch effort to save himself” after Rubio vigorously took him on.
Trump, Reines says, is most at ease at a rally, where he engages in stream-of-consciousness thinking and talking, rather than participating in a conversation. “I don’t think he’s in a lot of situations where he’s not dictating the conversation,” Reines says.
This might be Trump’s biggest struggle in adjusting to his new role on Jan. 20, Reines speculates. “When’s the last time someone said to him, you have to do X and he bought into it?” he says. “I think the presidency is going to be a lot more ‘you have to’ than he realizes.”
Reines has not been able to give up his Trump obsession, and was glued to the news conference last week, where he thinks the president-elect skillfully dominated the media.
“You guys are bringing knives to a gunfight,” the famously combative Reines says of the press corps covering Trump, joking that he should stand in to train the media on how to grill the president-elect. Reines cringed at the convoluted, multipart questions that allowed Trump to avoid a straight answer. The media’s only hope of pushing Trump where he doesn’t want to go is working together to ask follow-up questions, he says. “He knows that whack-a-mole works.”
* * *
If the confident Clinton campaign made a mistake in its assessment of Trump, it was in underestimating how the simplicity of his message was breaking through to win the war, even if Clinton was winning every debate battle. They saw the poll numbers—after the town hall-style debate, for example, an instant CNN/ORC poll found 57 percent of viewers thought Clinton won, compared with 34 percent for Trump—and celebrated what they thought were dominant performances.
But after processing Clinton’s loss on a meditative train trip across the country, Reines went back and thought about Trump through a different lens. “With 20/20 hindsight,” he says, “you remember how direct his arguments were, and how compelling they were, if you set aside veracity. If people were waking up looking for something they had never seen before, this was it.”
And part of Trump’s ability to plow ahead while disregarding his previous positions, or distorting the truth, Reines muses, is because he doesn’t experience shame or regret— human emotions that drive many politicians who expend energy trying not to make a gaffe or contradict themselves.
“I think he’d look at you blankly if you asked him, ‘What’s the biggest regret, or mistake you have made in your life?’” Reines says. “Talking about those things were some of the few questions, when I was figuring out how he would answer, where I couldn’t come up with a good answer.” It’s a different mindset from which to approach the presidency—and part of the explanation for Trump’s “I alone can fix it” ethos.
* * *
Today, Reines takes great pride in being able to predict what Trump might say, do or tweet, before he does it — and his former colleagues say it was uncanny watching him nail moments in debates before they happened.
“It’s one thing to learn everything that had been said by Trump,” says Dunn. “With Philippe, it became an ability to predict situations that hadn’t happened. It’s a whole other level of understanding of the person you are playing, to be able to do that.”
Reines, for instance, predicted correctly in a debate-prep session that Trump would blame the microphone when cornered—which he did after the first debate, where he said he had a defective microphone. “He puts his fingers on it and leans in,” says Reines, who had noticed that at rallies “he used the mic as a schtick.” But Clinton aides less familiar with Trump’s go-to moves were confused about what Reines was saying when he started yelling at the mic in debate prep. “Who’s Mike?” they asked during a break.
Reines has long since resumed his regular life. But the line between Reines and Trump at times is still blurry in his mind. “It went from me saying things I knew he had said, to me saying things I thought he would say,” he admits. “There are times when he says something and I spend five minutes trying to figure out if I was copying him or if he was copying me.”
French presidential candidate François Fillon will slow the intake 0f refugees entering France if he wins the election, according to one of his closest aides.
“A President Fillon would never accept more refugees than in the present proportions,” the former Les Républicains presidential candidate Bruno Le Maire told German newspaper Bild.
“France is neither economically or politically able to do so,” he added.
Fillon — whom pollsters expect to win the French election in the spring — beat Le Maire and other rivals in a November primary to decide who from France’s right-leaning Les Républicains party would challenge the presidency. Le Maire now advises Fillon on foreign and European affairs and is expected to be foreign minister if Fillon wins the election.
Such a stance on refugees will dismay Berlin, which has sought to rally European leaders behind its generous refugee policy.
Le Maire said that “under no circumstance” would France bow to Berlin’s wishes.
France registered around 78,000 asylum requests last year — a 10 percent increase on the previous year. Meanwhile, Germany received 280,000 requests last year, down from a record 890, 000 in 2015.
Fillon is set to visit Berlin January 23 to meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas met Pope Francis in the Vatican Saturday to inaugurate the opening of the first Palestinian embassy to the Holy See.
The trip comes a year and a half after the Vatican formally recognized the State of Palestine, in June 2015.
However, it also comes amid an atmosphere of heightened concern for Palestinian politicians.
U.S. President-Elect Donald Trump has said he will move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which Palestinians claim as their capital.
“We are waiting to see if [the move] happens. If it does it will not help peace and we hope it does not happen,” Abbas told reporters minutes after meeting Pope Francis, according to the Associated Press.
France is hosting an event on a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict Sunday.
Abbas will attend but Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has refused an invite.
The U.K. government wants to relieve pressure on hospitals by encouraging doctors’ surgeries to stay open for longer and every day of the week. And it is threatening to withhold funding if they don’t.
“Most GPs [family doctors] do a fantastic job, and have their patients’ interests firmly at heart,” the BBC quoted a Downing Street spokesperson as saying.
“However, it is increasingly clear that a large number of surgeries are not providing the access that patients need — and that patients are suffering as a result because they are then forced to go to [accident and emergency units in hospitals] to seek care,” the spokesperson added.
The announcement follows official figures which showed that four out of ten English hospitals had encountered nearly unmanageable pressures in the first week of the new year. The Red Cross described the situation as a “humanitarian crisis”.
The British government said that it had seen evidence that some doctors failed to inform their patients about extended hours and that those in need of medical attention had no option but to go to hospital emergency rooms. A report published by the National Audit Office found that 46 percent of GP practices close during core working hours, while 18 percent closed before 3pm one day a week.
It wants surgeries to remain open between 8 a.m and 8 p.m, seven days a week, unless they can prove there is no demand for such services.
Extra funding would be conditional on offering appointments that patients want and properly advertising the services, the government added.
Critics, however, argue that British Prime Minister is scapegoating family doctors for a winter health service crisis caused by NHS underfunding.
In a speech Saturday at the Fabian Society, the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was reported by the Guardian as saying: “[Theresa May has] told her Number 10 advisors to tell the media the real people to blame are the hard pressed and under pressure GPs.”
“This is another example of a prime minister in denial,” he added, “A Prime Minister who would much rather listen to spin doctors than real doctors.”
Labour’s shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth responded to the government’s move on Twitter. “First Ministers blamed patients, then Theresa May blamed the NHS boss now she blames GPs. Floundering response,” he wrote.
 
Angela Merkel has confronted populist forces in German politics with a speech that subverted slogans used by her far right rivals.
In a stump speech at a party conference in the town of Saarlouis Friday evening, the German chancellor implored her supporters to defend democratic values.
“All of us, we all are the people” Deutsche Welle quoted her as saying. The phrase is a play on “We are the people,” a popular chant among supporters of anti-refugee movement PEGIDA.
Right-wing, anti-immigration parties such as Alternative for Germany (AfD) have eroded support for Merkel’s Christian Democrats party (CDU), exploiting unease about the recent influx of refugees into the country.
Although a formal date has yet to be set for the German elections, voters must head to the polls sometime between late summer and the fall.
Merkel also underlined that citizens should never take for granted core democratic values such as freedom of speech and religion and cautioned that these are not “gifts you don’t have to work for.”
The Chancellor did not only talk about immigration, however.
She said a focus of her campaign this year would be “prosperity for all,” a slogan used by Germany’s first postwar economic minister Ludwig Erhard, who kickstarted the country’s stunning economic recovery in the 1950s.
“We want as many people as possible in Germany to have the possibility of a job with fair pay,” she said, adding that she also wanted to encourage companies to invest domestically.
President-elect Donald Trump expressed a willingness Friday to lift sanctions on Russia if it assists the U.S. in other efforts such as counterterrorism.
Trump told the Wall Street Journal that he intended to keep sanctions imposed on Russia by the Obama administration in response to cyber attacks during the election “at least for a period of time.” But the president-elect implied sanctions would not be warranted if Russia helped the U.S. in other ways.
“If you get along and if Russia is really helping us, why would anybody have sanctions if somebody’s doing some really great things?” Trump said.
The president-elect spoke of meeting with Russia and its leader Vladimir Putin after he is sworn in.
“I understand that they would like to meet, and that’s absolutely fine with me,” he said.
Trump also stood by his previous remarks on China, which he’s repeatedly criticized on the stump. The president-elect said he would not commit to the decades-old agreement of not recognizing Taiwan diplomatically, a policy known as “One China.”
“Everything is under negotiation including One China,” Trump said.
The president-elect caused a diplomatic furor in early December when he spoke to Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen over the phone, the first president or president-elect to do so in over 35 years.
Trump stood by that decision Friday, telling the Journal: “It would have been very rude not to accept the phone call.”
He added: “We sold them $2 billion of military equipment last year. We can sell them $2 billion of the latest and greatest military equipment but we’re not allowed to accept a phone call.”
President Barack Obama warned against the dangers that lie in the power of the presidency during a wide-ranging TV interview Friday.
In a thinly veiled comment aimed at the incoming administration, Obama told NBC’s Lester Holt that “You have to be careful because anything you say can move markets or start wars.”
The outgoing president also discussed at length the various highs and lows of his presidency, naming the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting as his lowest point in office.
“My worst day as president was hearing that 20 six-year-olds had been shot in the most brutal way,” he said.
The president also spoke of the challenges of lifting up his party while in office.
“I had trouble transferring my personal popularity or support to the broader cause of the Democratic Party,” he said. “And I think that’s a legitimate criticism.
Obama, the first African-American president, also elaborated on how his journey didn’t spell the end of racial challenges facing the country.
“I think any talk of the post-racial America before my election was never realistic,” he said. “I think that talk was not only naive but it created some problems down the road.”
Obama, however, said he remained optimistic about the changes he made while in office, and that even though the country was seemingly moving in an opposing direction, “his spirit was unchanged.”
“You get the baton and hopefully you’ve either advanced a lead or closed the gap when you pass the baton to the next person,” he said.
LONDON — The British government is considering formally tying its industrial strategy for the economy to a new EU visa scheme that will aim to bring down the number of workers entering Britain by controlling access for “every sector and every skill level,” senior government sources said.
While no final decision has been taken on the details of the new system, ministers favor extending the regime currently used to manage immigration from outside the EU, one official familiar with the plans said.
With less than three months to go until Prime Minister Theresa May kicks off formal negotiations with the 27 remaining EU countries about Britain’s exit from the bloc, her government is under pressure to radically reduce the number of migrants arriving in the U.K. following June’s referendum in which immigration was the main issue for many voters.
May has reiterated her commitment to reducing net migration to below 100,000 a year, a target David Cameron’s government repeatedly missed. Net migration to the U.K. in the year ending June 2016 was 335,000, of which 189,000 were EU citizens.
The Home Office is under clear instruction from Downing Street that the new system must impose controls on the number of workers moving to the U.K. from the EU, the official said.
May’s determination to ensure there is control of immigration across the board appears to contradict comments made by Chancellor Philip Hammond and other ministers who have sought to reassure employers that they will continue to be able to hire workers from the EU after Brexit.
It also undermines the prime minister’s refusal to rule out continued membership of the European single market, which requires free movement of people across borders.
In October, Hammond suggested there could be carve outs for certain sectors of the economy, insisting there was “no likelihood” highly skilled and highly paid workers from the EU would be stopped from coming to the U.K. Low-skilled migrants competing with British workers for manual jobs will be harder hit, the government has suggested.
However, a senior government official said that while “flexibility” would be built into the new system “to meet the needs of the economy,” the government wanted to control immigration across the board.
“To control people coming from Europe is the principle we are working towards,” the official said. “Every sector and every skill level will have some form of control.”
The new system will be tied to the government’s long-term economic strategy, under plans currently being developed by the Home Office and Department for Business, two senior government sources said.
The move, ministers believe, would allow for a long-term approach to managing migrant numbers, heading off potential labor shortages which force businesses and public bodies to employ foreign workers.
The government’s proposal to link the new visa regime to the upcoming industrial strategy is a further break with the Cameron era. The strategy, billed as a more proactive approach to job creation than any since the 1980s, is key to May’s domestic agenda.
“What jobs will we need and when? That is the sort of question that we could be asking,” the government official said. “How many British workers do we need to train up to meet the needs of a certain sector down the line?”
Another aide said it was sensible for there to be “interplay” between the government’s economic plan and its goal to reduce net migration.
While the Home Office is leading on the new scheme, Business Secretary Greg Clark is also weighing in, alongside Work and Pensions Secretary Damian Green, Brexit Secretary David Davis and Hammond.
The final decision will be taken by the Brexit cabinet committee chaired by May.
Fresh details of the prime minister’s plan to re-impose border controls on EU citizens could come as early as Tuesday when she gives a long-awaited speech on her plans for Brexit.
“No decisions have yet been made on our future immigration system but we are determined to use the opportunity presented by leaving the EU to take control of the numbers of people coming from Europe in the future,” a government spokesman said.
He added: “We are considering very carefully a range of options, taking into consideration the impacts on the different sectors of the economy and we will always welcome those with the skills, the drive and the expertise to make our nation better still.”
IMMERSED IN THE BRUSSELS BUBBLE: Gabriella Adèr, a Dutch crime reporter, used financing from a Dutch journalism fund to dive deep into the Brussels bubble. The result is an 8,000-word essay in De Groene Amsterdammer published January 11. Adèr told Playbook what “an outsider with no experience of political reporting at all” found from four months living among us, and 100 interviews.
Life is a buffet: Adèr’s first Brussels experience was a fisheries industry buffet in the European Parliament. The British left when the food ran out, and interns told Adèr they always go to these events so they don’t have to buy dinner. One intern admitted she was caught gorging on shellfish by an MEP who looked at her disapprovingly and said he wouldn’t touch the fish because it would make his hands smell.
Parliament microcosm: An MEP explained from her office: “I go nowhere but my hotel or this building, because everyone comes to me. Lobbyists, policymakers, experts … If I have to walk two blocks for a debate I think … why can’t you come here?” She and other MEPs admitted to being rather embarrassed that they never go into Brussels. Drinking on Place Luxembourg, Adèr concluded that the Parliament “is actually a professional Erasmus exchange for adults.”
Expat prison: To get ahead in the bubble, according to most of the young people Adèr met, you have to give yourself completely to the bubble. “Your network is everything,” said one. When you do that, the results can be unexpected. A long-term European Commission staffer told Adèr: “How can I know what European citizens want? How can they understand what the hell I am doing here?”
Love the competence you’ve got: Adèr met dozens of people struggling to match their passions to their actual powers. Their constituents want jobs and security, but sometimes all MEPs can offer is a meeting or a free trip to the Parliament in Brussels. If an MEP “initiates a European dog registry to identify missing pets, who cares?” complained one parliamentary assistant.
The midday trenches: Journalists often get sneered at by Commission chief spokesperson Margaritis Schinas, said Adèr, instead of being given proper answers. When one journalist wanted to know something about an upcoming summit, he got a nasty “I don’t have my crystal ball with me” response from Schinas. On the Juncker system of centralized press management rather than spokespeople and press officers for each commissioner: “The idea is nice, but its implementation is totally counterproductive. In practice, this means a wave of ‘look-how-good-we-do-it’ messages,” but little else. Adèr concluded that real information comes only when the cameras are off, and after critical journalists have been bullied into submission.
What’s next? “Nearly everyone I speak to feels and recognizes the criticism of the EU, but does not know how to deal with this,” said Adèr, who concluded politicians are trapped in a catch-22 situation. “They seem to have chosen to stay low,” she added. “You can feel that there is something cooking in the bubble; slowly and informally people are talking about reform and changing the system.” What could make the difference? “They should talk to people outside the bubble more, really listen to the answers and act on it. Because the future of the EU is at stake.”
FEUD OF THE WEEK: Jeremy Corbyn versus freedom of movement: The U.K. Labour leader had always been in favor. Then he said he wasn’t “wedded” to the idea. Then he backtracked and said he was a bit of both. Good to see his new “copying the Trump playbook” media strategy is working out.
SHOULD YOU STOP WRITING ‘HAPPY NEW YEAR’? Yes, people, yes! In Belgium, you can for the entire month of January, but in most European countries, January 10 is the limit. Katie LaZelle at Weber Shandwick spoke for many readers when she said: “HNY is a ridiculous acronym and should be avoided at all costs.”
‘THE CONSERVATIVE’ STARTS UP: There’s an online platform launching this month for diverse center-right writing. Daniel Hannan MEP, whose European Alliance for Conservatives and Reformists is behind the initiative, said contributors are “conservatives, moved by respect for the things that make us what we are, our nations, our laws, our families, our customs.”
THE PARLIAMENT REBRANDS … It’s a brave institution that embraces its policy derailments, but that’s what the European Parliament is doing in its new engagement aka marketing campaign.

WHO’S UP
Emmanuel Macron: The former economy minister is up in the polls ahead of the French presidential election and pleased Berlin with a visit.
Günther Oettinger: The German  EU commissioner, despite controversies and an average parliamentary hearing, is likely to get the budget and human resources portfolio.
WHO’S DOWN
Guy Verhofstadt: The chair of the ALDE group failed to convince his colleagues to accept the 5Star Movement to the parliamentary group.
Juha Sipilä: Finland’s PM was caught in a conflict-of-interest scandal over a mining company bailed out by the Finnish government.
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “He did not look very happy,” an ALDE MEP explains the moment Guy Verhofstadt conceded his proposed merger with the 5Star Movement had collapsed.
GAFFES AND LAUGHS …
Latvia’s Defence Minister is called … Jānis Garisons.
Holiday antics: Fredrick Federley MEP loves being a father. So much so he let his daughter not only take this photo of him, but put it on Instagram as well.

Oops! Mogherini launches film with Obama poster behind her: The EU’s chief diplomat this week launched a promotion of the Erasmus student exchange program, which is celebrating its 30th birthday. So far, so good. One eagle-eyed Playbook reader noticed something interesting about one minute into the video: Mogherini extolling Erasmus’ virtues in front of a big Obama “Hope” poster. Behind her own office desk, as pictured. As our source noted: If that’s deliberate it is diplomatic amateur hour. If it’s accidental it’s communications amateur hour.

Google takes MEPs on school trip: The beleaguered American tech giant has adopted an interesting approach to getting MEPs on its side: infantilize them. Google has organized “a school trip” for interested parliamentarians to the CERN particle collider in Geneva, followed by a visit to the company’s innovation HQ in Zürich. Eight MEPs have so far confirmed, and will be treated to a “technology deep-dive” while traveling on “the high-tech bus.”
Favorite press release of the week, from Open Britain: “Lamb – Growing skills shortage shows importance of keeping Britain open to talent.” That’s Norman Lamb the U.K. MP, not a lamb-growing shortage.
The British government Brexit strategy should be published by the middle of February at the latest to give parliament time to scrutinize it, a committee of MPs said Saturday.
In its first report, the cross-party Brexit committee said this would clarify the U.K.’s stance on membership of the EU’s single market and a future trade relationship with the EU.
It will also need to clarify what, if any, transitional arrangements would come into place if a final deal has not been struck by the time Britain leaves the EU.
“We’re not asking the government to give away its red lines or negotiating fall-back positions, but we do want clarity on its broad aims given the significance and complexity of the negotiating task,” Hilary Benn, the Labour MP who chairs the committee, said.
The committee warned that it’s not in the interests of the U.K. or the EU to have trade barriers. MPs also urged the government to seek continued access to EU markets.
“Both the U.K. and the EU-27 benefit from the presence in London of a world class financial services hub and ensuring that there is minimal disruption to services from Brexit will be important for broader European financial stability,” the report states.
Stability in Northern Ireland and the Good Friday Agreement must not be jeopardized by Brexit, the committee of MPs said, adding that the Northern Irish parliament should be “duly involved at every stage in the process.” That would be complicated if there is no government in Northern Ireland. The power-sharing agreement has collapsed and fresh elections are likely.
The Westminster parliament should have a vote on the final deal, the committee said, adding that its timetable would allow for proper consideration of any deal that is negotiated.
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump is at risk of botching the transatlantic alliance that has served the interests of the Western democracies since the end of World War II, the outgoing American ambassador to the EU warned Friday.
In an unusually frank conversation with reporters, the ambassador, Anthony Gardner, said Trump and his team should not rely on advice from former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, calling the Brexit champion a “fringe voice,” and saying the incoming administration should stop expecting the European Union to fall apart.
“I can’t hide a sense of concern,” Gardner said, before issuing a pointed warning to the incoming administration against trying to sideline the EU and its institutions in favor of direct relationships “with our perceived best friends like the U.K. and Germany … on the false assumption, which may be held by some, that the EU is a dysfunctional group of countries that don’t deliver and don’t deliver particularly for the United States.”
“For 50 years, on a bipartisan basis, United States policy has been to support European integration — and for a very good reason,” Gardner said. “It’s not only good for Europe, it has been good for the United States — for political, economic, and security reasons.”
Gardner, like other politically appointed envoys, was ordered by the new administration to vacate his post before the January 20 inauguration. And at the outset of his remarks on Friday, Gardner said he was looking forward to being able to speak his mind without diplomatic constraints and that he planned to serve as a sort of shadow ambassador, pushing a pro-EU message.
“I might as well go out in a ball of flames,” Gardner said, adding: “I have not been shy and I will not be shy in the next few years to continue to make the case.”
Gardner, who worked on European affairs on the National Security Council during the Clinton administration, has spent most of his career working as a lawyer and financial executive, mainly based in London. He was appointed by President Barack Obama in 2014 and arrived in Brussels at a time of tension over Edward Snowden’s disclosures that the U.S. intelligence services had been eavesdropping on European allies, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Gardner said he was urging anxious European colleagues to continue making an aggressive case for the EU but to shift their rhetoric into a heavily pro-business message. His advice suggested that Trump’s view of himself as a corporate executive and dealmaker was already forcing longtime diplomats and policymakers to rethink their approach to relations with Washington.
Gardner said he was troubled that Trump transition officials in a phone call to the EU leadership had asked one question: which country would be next to follow the U.K. out the door? He said the Trump team’s seeming appreciation for Brexit was deeply misguided and he cautioned that relying on Farage for advice was a mistake.
“We should not depart from 50 years of foreign policy with regard to the EU, and we should not become cheerleaders for Brexit — particularly a Brexit that appears more likely to be a hard, disorderly, unmanaged Brexit,” Gardner said. “That would be, in my view, absolute folly. And U.S. business understands this very well.
“U.S. business has been a cheerleader for the integration project for many, many, many years for a very simple reason: the single market has been extremely positive for them. A hard Brexit or a fragmentation of the European market would be very bad news for American business.”
Gardner repeatedly chided the president-elect and his top lieutenants for creating a sense that they expected, or perhaps even wanted, the EU to fail.
“The perceived idea among some is that 2017 is the year in which the EU is going to fall apart,” Gardner said, adding: “And this mission is going to play a critical role in saying that’s inaccurate.”
He said the EU is “delivering” on energy, data and digital, protection of external borders and countering violent extremism. “We know the list,” he said. “And we have to make sure that — and the media is going to play an important role — explain to the new team how the EU is still delivering.”
Gardner also said he expected Europe would have to take on a larger role in the defense of Western values.
“Never before will the weight of history be so heavy on the shoulders of Europe to carry the flame of democracy, human rights and the values that have guided the transatlantic partnership for decades,” he said. “And that weight of history is not only the shoulders of Germany but also on all European countries and on the shoulders of the EU institutions.”
He continued: “I just hope that they are the guardians of that flame because nothing can be taken for granted right now. The violence of our political discourse, the vulgarity of our political discourse … things that were unacceptable a few years ago are now acceptable. I find it profoundly shocking that xenophobia, racism, homophobia … are now considered to be acceptable.”
In his remarks Gardner ticked off a long list of achievements including the landmark “privacy shield” agreement with the EU that protects personal data and puts a restriction on “indiscriminate mass surveillance” by the U.S. government of personal data transferred to the U.S. The accord also created a redress mechanism through an ombudsman’s office at the State Department.
He cited the failure to complete a landmark trade deal, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, as his biggest regret, and that he had hoped to serve at least one more year as the ambassador.
On Russia, Gardner spoke forcefully in favor of maintaining the tough sanctions that the EU and U.S. have imposed in response to the annexation of Crimea and the Kremlin’s military intervention in eastern Ukraine. He said he was fearful the Trump administration would ease up on Russia.
“Clearly, there are risks of this façade fragmenting,” he said. “Particularly given what has emerged recently in terms of now-acknowledged Russian actions in interfering and meddling in our internal political system and campaign, it would be for me inconceivable and shameful if we were to consider lightening sanctions on Russia.”
In describing his hopes for American diplomats remaining in Brussels, Gardner echoed the message of Ivan Rogers, the former British ambassador to the EU, who resigned abruptly this month in clear disagreement with London over the handling of Brexit. Rogers urged his staff to “speak truth to power” and Gardner did the same.
“It’s critically important that while being loyal to the new team, which is absolutely right and appropriate in a democratic system, that people speak truth to power,” Gardner said. “Don’t be shy in sometimes saying what you believe in.”
Gardner said he had never met Farage but said that Farage had recently asked for a meeting in a letter Gardner described as weirdly supplicative.
“Nigel Farage said ‘your excellency, I hope that your excellency has time to meet me and it will be a fruitful meeting with your excellency,’” Gardner said. “It was like six excellencies in there.”
Gardner criticized the president-elect for his anti-immigrant rhetoric, saying: “We are a country which should be explaining to the world the great opportunities of being a country of immigrants.”
He also praised Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry for making an eloquent defense of the EU, that he said offered a better case than Europeans have made.
Citing a speech by Kerry in Brussels, Gardner said, “Remember his last line was ‘believe in yourselves as much as we believe in you.’”
After leaving his post next week, Gardner will become a visiting fellow at the College of Europe in Bruges and then will hold a similar position at the European University Institute in Italy before returning to work in the private sector in London in the fall.
“The EU — despite all of the issues that we live and we see every day living here, being here — is not about to fall apart,” he said.
Serbian police arrested two men linked to an alleged attempt to overthrow the government in neighboring Montenegro, the interior ministry said Friday.
Belgrade’s high court released one of the men from custody later Friday but banned him from leaving the city. The other man will remain in custody.
Montenegrin police arrested 20 people, including Russians and Serbians, on the day of an election in October for allegedly planning to carry out attacks to disrupt parliamentary elections.
The state prosecutor in November said “nationalists from Russia” were behind the plot, but Moscow said it had no involvement in the alleged coup attempt.
In November, Montenegro’s parliament endorsed a cabinet led by Prime Minister Duško Marković of the Democratic Party of Socialists, replacing former premier Milo Đukanović.
GENEVA — Negotiators are still hopeful that a deal to reunify Cyprus can be done within weeks despite a bellicose response from the Turkish president Friday to the talks’ unexpected breakup.
Recep Tayyip Erdoğan reacted to the halt by emphasizing a position Greek Cypriots had long feared he would take — a refusal to cede ground.
“We have told Cyprus and Greece clearly that they should not expect a solution without Turkey as guarantor. We are going to be there forever,” he told reporters, according to Reuters.
The focus of the negotiations has only now shifted to the delicate question of how to make sure the island’s Greek and Turkish communities feel secure when the U.N. buffer zone between them comes down.
After just one day of talks at the United Nations headquarters in Geneva, the Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders and foreign ministers from the three countries responsible for protecting Cyprus agreed to take a break and resume with a meeting of senior civil servants on January 18.
The hiatus Thursday was an unexpectedly early end to the first-ever international conference on the guarantee powers held by Turkey, Greece and the U.K., and a sign of the hard work that still remains after 20 months of negotiations between Nicos Anastasiades, the Greek Cypriot leader and country’s internationally recognized president, and Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state.
“We are in agreement that the security of one community should not be perceived as a threat to the other community,” Akıncı told reporters on Friday afternoon. “The point is, how can you strike a balance? How can you find ways and means [to make sure] that both communities on this beautiful island will feel secure?”
The civil servants will be tasked with identifying the specific questions around a new framework for ensuring the reunified country’s security, and the instruments needed to address them. After that, political leaders will come together again to discuss the options.
Akıncı told reporters that his side, and the Turkish government, were ready to begin working on Friday, but that Greece needed time to prepare. He stressed that it’s nothing more than a break, but the decision still raised concern for those who had hoped to see a breakthrough in Geneva.
“It’s not bad, but it’s not good,” a source close to the Greek Cypriot side said on Friday morning.
Signs that the conference was going off-script started to emerge during a break in the discussions on Thursday afternoon — when Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias held an impromptu press conference for Greek media in which he laid down unrealistically tough demands for Turkey and Turkish Cypriots.
In the press conference, Kotzias stressed that the 30,000 or so Turkish troops stationed in the northern Turkish Cypriot area would have to start leaving the week after reunification takes effect, and announced that Turkey, Greece and the U.K. would meet the Turkish and Greek Cypriot leaders again on January 23 — a date that the parties had not agreed on.
“The Cyprus problem is above all an issue of foreign occupation,” he said, according to Greek news site Ekathimerini.
His comments to the press came as a surprise to Anastasiades and Akıncı, and raised tensions when officials returned to discussions that evening, a source close to the talks said. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu kept his diplomatic cool, but Erdoğan’s robust comments Friday were seen as a response to Kotzias going off script.
There is no timeline for the negotiations beyond January 18, but officials watching the talks still expect the two Cypriot sides and Turkey, Greece and the U.K. to come to an agreement within days or weeks.
“We deliberately don’t have a date but it’s going to be soon,” Espen Barth Eide, the U.N. secretary-general’s special adviser on Cyprus, told reporters on Friday. “Maybe in the course of this month.”
Once a broad political agreement is in place, the two leaders will work out the last sticking points, write a new constitution and organize separate but simultaneous referendums within the coming months.
Some issues have already been the subject of long negotiations between Anastasiades and Akıncı: the form of the new federal government; bringing the Turkish Cypriot side up to date with EU laws and evaluating claims for property lost during partition in 1974.
But the discussion on Cyprus’ security and guarantees was barely broached in Geneva.
“Security and guarantees is one of the most important sticking points in the Cyprus problem, and it’s the least studied one. It has always been left to the very end, so believing that such an important dossier would be completed in a couple of days would be very naïve,” said Ahmet Sözen, a political science and international relations professor at the Eastern Mediterranean University in northern Cyprus, who negotiated for the Turkish Cypriot side in 2008.
Greek Cypriots want to do away with the 1960s treaty that allows Turkey, Greece and the U.K. to intervene if Cyprus is invaded, arguing that it’s outdated and unnecessary for a European Union member.
“We believe, especially on this important and very difficult chapter of security and guarantees, that the European Union can provide a solution for the benefit of all Cypriots,” Nikos Christodoulides, the Anastasiades government’s spokesman, told reporters Thursday afternoon.
The smaller Turkish Cypriot community, however, is wary about putting their security into the EU’s hands and kicking out the only country that has supported and recognized their government since Cyprus was divided in 1974.
Anastasiades and Akıncı have both suggested they could come to a compromise that phases out the security and guarantee system, and Turkish troops, over a number of years — one, two or three, according to the Greek side, or 15, according to the Turkish side.
“They are seen as the only legitimate government of Cyprus, and they are bigger in numbers, and they are in the United Nations system and they are a member of the European Union,” Akıncı said of the Greek Cypriots. “We are less in numbers. We are isolated, and the only security we can feel so far has come from Turkey.”
French far-right leader Marine Le Pen is in the United States to discuss her presidential bid and try to raise money for campaigns, officials close to her said Friday.
While her National Front party obtained a €6 million loan from her father’s lender in January, Le Pen still lacks more than €10 million to fund a parliamentary election campaign that kicks off directly after the presidential vote.
Le Pen, who says French banks refuse to lend to her party, has sought funds from dozens of foreign banks, including American ones, so far without success. After Le Pen was photographed Thursday in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York, an official close to her told POLITICO that she was in the United States, in part, to seek funds for her campaigns.
“The private meetings that Le Pen had also focused on the unfair blacklisting of Marine by French banks,” Denis Franceskin, the National Front’s representative in the United States, said via text message.
On Thursday, George “Guido” Lombardi, an Italian real estate developer and right-wing political operative, told journalists in Trump Tower that Le Pen was in the United States for “fundraising.”
A Trump spokesman said there had been no meetings between Le Pen and the transition team.
Before visiting Trump Tower, Le Pen held several meetings in New York with “diplomats and businessmen,” according to a Twitter account affiliated with her presidential campaign. The names of people she met were not disclosed, nor was the trip on her official agenda. Le Pen was due to travel to Washington Friday for further meetings, Franceskin said.
In 2014, Le Pen obtained a €9 million loan from a Russian-backed bank. The party is paying 6 percent annual interest on the loan. But earlier this month, Le Monde reported that the Russian deposit insurance agency had requested the loan be reimbursed in full. The National Front’s treasurer told French media he had never received any notification of the request.
In January, Le Pen told foreign journalists that she had enough money to underwrite her presidential campaign, but not her parliamentary campaign.
CLERMONT-FERRAND, France — For better or worse, former French Prime Minister Manuel Valls was once a man who relished conflict and never balked at challenging Socialist party orthodoxy.
That man is no more.
As Valls seeks a Socialist party nomination to run for president, he is hard at work erasing from memory almost everything that once defined his political brand. Gone are his appetite for conflict; his hard-charging approach to reform; his embrace of thorny identity politics, unique on the Left.
The new Valls is a maestro of mildness.
“I’ve changed,” he told an interviewer on French political show L’Emission Politique earlier this month to explain his newfound serenity.
The quip, which echoed a similar formula used by ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy, was met with more than a few raised eyebrows.
Six months ago, Valls was using an executive decree to ram an unpopular reform of labor laws through parliament over howls of disapproval from Socialist backbenchers. Now he was explaining that such a nasty legislative device should be banned, and that the Socialist party, which he once called obsolete, should unify around a set of milky ideals, namely the preservation of France’s welfare state and defense of the Republic.
Politically, the tactic is easy to decode. In order to prevail in the January primary, Valls needs to rally broad left-wing support and sell himself as the responsible, experienced alternative to left-wing firebrand Arnaud Montebourg, his closest rival.
This is not the time to start firefights about the merits of socialism versus social democracy.
All the same: watching Valls perform his ritual of self-denial can be painful.
During a visit to a refugee center near the central city of Clermont-Ferrand this week, a smiling Valls sang the praises of France’s asylum culture after a chat with guests and volunteer workers. He then proclaimed that his country had “all ability” to welcome some 100,000 refugees.
No matter that, as prime minister, Valls led a government that forcefully resisted the notion of national quotas for refugees, and capped new arrivals at 30,000 — a tiny fraction of the number taken in by Germany.
A few hours later, Valls delivered a speech in which he insisted heavily on the need to preserve France’s welfare state. He repeated the words “protect” and “protection,” vowing to uphold health spending and defend workers’ rights, with no reference to competitiveness.
No matter that, as prime minister, Valls’ defining act was a reform of labor rules that seriously curtailed the power of trade unions.
In a live TV debate Thursday evening, Valls steered wide of once-favored themes like Salafist Islam, which he had linked to the development of jihadist ideology. Instead, he stuck to a measured defense of his legacy in government under the dismally unpopular president, François Hollande.
“Valls has really changed,” said an MP who accompanied him on his trip to Clermont-Ferrand, who asked to remain anonymous. “He has learned a lot from his time in power. He is more appeased now.”
The big questions remaining for Valls are: Will his act of self-effacement enable him to win the primary, and if he wins, what then?
On the first score, Valls has a serious chance. A snap poll by Elabe for BFMTV after Thursday’s debate showed that 28 percent of left-wing sympathizers found him to be convincing versus 23 percent for Montebourg. Another survey, this one by Ifop and measuring voting intentions for the primary, showed Valls prevailing over his rivals, and by a huge margin among Socialist party members — the group most likely to turn out in January.
For many socialists, Valls’ experience in government is a major advantage over his less tested rivals. After the speech in the socialist redoubt of Clermont-Ferrand, four attendees told POLITICO that they planned to vote for him in both rounds of the two-round primary.
“I came to see a statesman,” said Jacques Dussolier, a retired schoolteacher in his sixties. “Valls is the only one I would trust to run a defense council the day after he is elected president.”
The problem for Valls is what comes after the primary.
For he would then enter a ferocious race for the presidency in which his closest rival would be Emmanuel Macron, his former economy minister and one-time protégé.
Unlike Valls, Macron is unfettered by any party affiliation. He does not need to jump through ideological hoops in his run for president. Having chosen not to participate in the left-wing primary, the former investment banker is free to define himself as an “anti-system” candidate — an economic liberal who thinks France needs more far-reaching reforms.
In short, Macron is able to be everything that Valls is not.
Not surprisingly, his campaign is drumming up far more enthusiasm than Valls’. A slew of recent polls show the 39-year-old catching up to conservative candidate François Fillon, currently the frontrunner in the race for the presidency. But the most striking contrast is the difference in the hype surrounding their respective campaigns.
For his speaking event in Clermont-Ferrand, Valls was able to draw no more than 250 people to a gymnasium that had been half walled off in order to make it look fuller. One of three print journalists present was asked “in jest” whether they might want to sit behind the candidate on stage to fill out seats.
Macron’s event, held a week earlier in the same town, attracted some 2,500 spectators with hundreds more turned away at the door.
The comparison is not entirely fair, say his supporters. Macron had launched his campaign back in the Fall of 2016 and had plenty of time to build momentum. He also benefitted from novelty appeal. Valls, meanwhile, had only started campaigning in December and was running a smaller operation geared for the primary. Once he had won the left-wing contest, he would power up his campaign.
At that point, there will be a lot of catching up to do for the former prime minister.
He might want to consider redeploying the old Valls.
MOSCOW — The reaction in Russia to allegations in a U.S. intelligence report about the Kremlin, U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and reportedly lurid video footage can probably best be described as a Slavic shrug.
The unverified claims — the most explosive of which is that Russian intelligence secretly recorded sexual encounters involving Trump during a 2013 visit to Moscow — have been widely ridiculed by Russian officials, journalists and political analysts, including many usually critical of the government.
“It is dirty political technology,” said Evgeny Minchenko, a prominent political expert who runs a Moscow-based political consultancy.
“It is a clear fake,” said Russian political analyst Gleb Pavlovsky, who worked as a Kremlin adviser until 2011 and is personally acquainted with the Kremlin elite.
Independent Russian media outlets, which have a long experience of assessing the value of anonymous denunciations and political blackmail, have largely dismissed the allegations as baseless.
In addition to the existence of compromising information, the dossier, published earlier this week by BuzzFeed News, alleges coordination between Trump surrogates and the Kremlin. It also details strong disagreement within the Russian elite over Moscow’s interference the U.S. presidential election.
Written by a former British intelligence officer, the dossier was based on the testimony of multiple anonymous sources.
The August departure of Sergei Ivanov from his position as head of the influential presidential administration was, according to the dossier, the result of President Vladimir Putin’s personal displeasure over negative publicity the hacking had generated.
The report also claimed that Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, was in charge of the compromising information on Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, and that Igor Sechin, the influential head of Russia’s state-owned oil giant Rosneft, offered a large stake in the company to a Trump intermediary if the U.S. canceled 2014 sanctions imposed on Russia during the Ukraine crisis.
The extraordinary allegations against Peskov and Sechin have not appeared before, even as rumors in Moscow. It was also the first-time Ivanov, a former intelligence officer, had been publicly portrayed as the mastermind by the hacking campaign.
“Ivanov was fired for very different things,” said Igor Bunin, a leading political analyst and director of the Moscow-based think tank the Center for Political Technology. “It is in no way connected with hacking.”
Ivanov was one of a series of high-ranking officials removed last year by Putin as he replaced his old guard with younger, unquestioningly loyal figures.
Far from causing tensions in Moscow, some observers argued the existence of the dossier, and the credence it has been given by U.S. media, plays into Putin’s hands.
The document is helping to split American society and weaken the Washington political elite, allowing Moscow to pursue its foreign policy goals more vigorously, according to Mark Galeotti, an expert on Russian intelligence agencies at the Institute of International Relations in Prague.
“This will do nothing but widen the dangerous divide within American society,” Galeotti wrote in a commentary for the Dutch Raam op Rusland website. “That’s exactly what the Kremlin wants.”
When asked during a press conference last month to address allegations of Kremlin-sponsored hacking attacks designed to influence the outcome of the U.S. presidential election, Putin chose his words carefully.
Putin, a former spy, did not directly deny the charge or rule out the hackers were Russian.
“Who knows who these hackers were? Maybe they were in a different country and not Russia,” he told the thousands of assembled journalists. “In my opinion, the most important thing is the essence of the information the hackers supplied to the public.”
The existence of a state-sponsored Russian hacking campaign has been vigorously rejected by other Russian officials, including Putin’s spokesman. But Putin’s words on the issue have often been ambiguous, and he has repeatedly stressed that it is the content of the information, not how it was obtained, that was significant.
Putin’s ambiguity is deliberate, according to political analyst Pavlovsky.
“If you don’t deny you look stronger,” said Pavlovsky, adding this sows confusion about your real goals and ability to achieve them. “Putin often does not deny what is attributed to him.”
Much of the furor over the dossier and Russia has focused personally on Putin. The dossier claims the Russian authorities, in an extraordinarily far-sighted move, began supporting Trump’s presidential ambitions half a decade ago when he was just an outspoken businessman. And three U.S. intelligence agencies — the CIA, FBI and NSA — allege it was Putin personally who “ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election,” according to the report.
Pavlovsky warned that breathless U.S. media reports and documents from the U.S. intelligence community portraying the Russian leader as a master strategist “raise Putin’s self-worth” and boost his international ambitions.
“It creates the illusion in Moscow they are more successful than they are in reality and this is dangerous,” said Pavlovsky.
The number of Germans who think the country can cope with the arrival of refugees has increased by 20 percentage points on last year, an opinion poll published Friday by broadcaster ZDF suggests.
Fifty-seven percent of the 1,300 respondents think Germany can handle the refugee influx, up from 37 percent in January 2016.
In the wake of the Berlin Christmas market attack in December, half of respondents said the country doesn’t do enough in response to the terror threat. Last October, 62 percent of those questioned said the response to terror was sufficient, that number is now down to 44 percent.
A majority of respondents, 67 percent, think laws need to be tougher on the deportation of asylum seekers who commit crimes. A third think that existing legislation is sufficient.
The poll also suggests that if a national election were held today, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats would emerge as the biggest party with 36 percent of the vote. The Social Democrats, the junior coalition partner, would be second place, with 21 percent. The far-right Alternative for Germany would finish third with 13 percent of the vote.
BELFAST — The spectacular mismanagement of a green energy scheme has brought Northern Ireland to the brink of an election that could destabilize its finely-balanced politics — and throw a spanner in Theresa May’s Brexit plans.
Seasoned Northern Ireland watchers estimate that a poll — the second in just eight months — is now 80 percent certain and the fear is that it will further strain the already tense relations between the region’s sectarian factions and might threaten the relative political calm that has followed the Good Friday Agreement.
Even by the volatile standards of Northern Irish politics, the last month has been a remarkable one. In late November, Arlene Foster and Martin McGuinness, first and deputy first ministers, respectively, promised “that we will keep taking on the heavy responsibilities that come with elected office, governing in their best interests, tackling head-on the tough decisions.”
But on Monday, Sinn Féin’s McGuinness resigned, leaving the devolved parliament at Stormont, outside Belfast, without a government. If Sinn Féin do not nominate a replacement for McGuinness as deputy first minister by Monday, a snap election will be called, perhaps as soon as next month.
The immediate catalyst for the breakdown between Sinn Féin and Foster’s Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) was a botched green energy scheme that could cost taxpayers £490 million (Northern Ireland’s entire annual budget is only around £12 billion). But the enmity goes well beyond the so-called “cash for ash” scandal, raising questions about how long this once turbulent corner of the United Kingdom could be without a functioning government after a fresh poll.
Sinn Fein has shared power with the DUP for almost a decade, as part of a mandatory coalition enforced by the provisions of the 1998 Good Friday peace deal that ended the three-decade-long Northern Irish Troubles. Relations between coalition partners, however, have been increasingly strained, especially since Foster took over the reins of the DUP in early 2016.
McGuinness, who is seriously ill, pulled few punches in a strongly worded parting statement. The former IRA commander denounced “the most crude and crass bigotry” of his longtime coalition partner.
The DUP, he wrote, had displayed a “negative attitude” to Irish nationalists and failed to honor the power-sharing spirit of the Good Friday Agreement.
The most significant change in the last month has been the position of Sinn Féin. When the renewable energy scandal broke, the Irish republicans seemed content for Foster to step aside while an investigation took place, with the implicit acceptance that she would return to power in a matter of weeks.
But the DUP leader proved far more recalcitrant than her predecessor Peter Robinson. Instead, the day before Christmas Eve, one of her ministers cut £50,000 from a scheme to encourage families on lower incomes to learn Irish.
Although the move was reversed, republicans viewed it as a hostile act. Sinn Féin “were looking for bit of respect from the DUP, and they didn’t get it,” said Chris Donnelly, a republican blogger and former Sinn Féin candidate. Foster’s habit of describing herself as “the leader of Northern Ireland,” a misnomer under Stormont’s rules, did little to endear her to republicans.
So far, attempts by the DUP to coax Sinn Féin back into government have failed, with little prospect of either London or Dublin being able to broker a compromise.
“We are having an election. That’s fine. We’ll fight it. But I do think an election is unnecessary and puts at risk the core of the Good Friday Agreement,” Colum Eastwood, leader of the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), told POLITICO.
Under the Good Friday Agreement, the parties have three weeks from election day to form an administration. If the DUP and Sinn Féin cannot agree to share power, Stormont could be suspended and Northern Ireland ruled directly from Westminster.
The election result is unlikely to change Northern Ireland’s complex political arithmetic. The DUP, despite a raft of scandals, is expected to repeat its poll topping performance in May, followed by Sinn Féin. Despite their strong performance in opposition in recent months both the SDLP and the Ulster Unionists are set to lose seats as the Stormont assembly reduces in size from 108 to 90 seats following reforms passed last year.
Getting voters out could be a challenge, too. During the conflict Northern Ireland frequently recorded some of the highest turnouts in the U.K. In May’s Stormont elections less than 55 percent voted.
“I don’t think anybody genuinely wants an election,” said Jonny Byrne, a political scientist at the University of Ulster. “When you have an election people need to know what they are voting for. We have no idea what anybody’s manifesto is for this election.”
Northern Ireland has long been “a place apart” in British politics. Where politicians on the other side of the Irish Sea argue over tax-and-spend and economic policy, tribal issues such as parades and symbols still dominate discussions in Belfast. Foster has warned that any election campaign will be “brutal,” a not too subtle hint that sectarian politics will be at the forefront.
But what happens in Northern Ireland in the coming months could have a bearing on the biggest issue for the U.K. this year: Brexit.
Northern Ireland voters backed the Remain campaign with 55.8 percent in favor of staying in the EU. But in October, Northern Ireland’s High Court ruled that Stormont did not have to give consent before Theresa May could trigger Article 50. Victims’ campaigner Raymond McCord has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, where a ruling is expected in the coming weeks.
If the Supreme Court rules in McCord’s favour, Britain could find itself in the unprecedented situation of requiring the imprimatur of the Northern Irish assembly to leave the European Union — but with no administration sitting in Stormont to grant it.
Brexit has also revealed deeper fissures within Northern Ireland’s power-sharing structures, and even in the United Kingdom itself. Since the Good Friday Agreement the circuitous 300-mile Irish border between north and south has effectively melted away. Political links with Dublin have allowed many from the nationalist community to feel comfortable in the Northern Irish state without fear of a return to majority Protestant rule.
The Brexit vote has changed that dynamic. Despite voting Remain, Northern Ireland is on course to leave the European Union. Many fear that the U.K.’s exit could pose significant economic and political problems, especially around the border.
Foster — whose party backed Leave — has dismissed talk of post-Brexit difficulties. Prime Minister May, who could come to rely on DUP votes in the Commons given her slender majority, has shown little interest in the specific challenges leaving the European Union poses for Northern Ireland.
Whether Brexit will change Northern Ireland’s constitutional position is unclear but for the first time in a generation, conversations about Irish unification are taking place on both sides of the border beyond the confines of the republican movement. Many nationalists and some liberal unionists who voted Remain are increasingly looking to Dublin for support. Last year, the number of Northern Irish applicants for Irish passports rose by more than a quarter.
“Brexit uncorked nebulous grievances here,” said Newton Emerson, a political commentator with the Irish Times. “As far as anyone can tell it doesn’t break the agreement but it feels like it breaks the spirit of it.”
That does not mean Stormont is finished, said Emerson. He expects the current standoff to end as all others have done over the past decade: with a post-election deal.
“I don’t feel a sense of crisis here. At the root of that is people think that this is all a load of nonsense. It is not plausible that they will bring the government down forever.
“That doesn’t mean it won’t take a long time to get back up and running but devolution is the only game in town.”
British Labour MP Tristram Hunt is to leave politics and become director of London’s Victoria and Albert Museum, heaping more pressure on party leader Jeremy Corbyn.
Hunt is a former shadow education secretary and was once mooted as a possible party leader, but has been a vocal critic of the far-left Corbyn and in the summer called on the party to “end its experiment with Corbynism.” However, in his resignation letter Friday he said he had “no desire to rock the boat now.”
In the letter to Corbyn, Hunt said his time as an MP had been “deeply rewarding and intensely frustrating,” adding that “I am sorry to put the party and the people of Stoke-on-Trent through a by-election.”
A spokesman for Corbyn said: “Jeremy would like to thank Tristram Hunt for his service to the people of Stoke-on-Trent Central and to the Labour Party. Jeremy wishes him well in his future pursuits at the V&A.”
The by-election will be tricky for Labour. Hunt won his seat in the 2015 general election by 5,200 seats from second-placed UKIP, with the Conservatives just 33 seats behind in third. No date has been set for the ballot.
UKIP’s Nigel Farage said Labour was “doomed” as a number of senior MPs have left the party.

New UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has made targeting marginal Labour seats a priority and he will be confident of doing well in Stoke-on-Trent, where the Leave campaign picked up 69 percent of votes in the EU referendum.
Jamie Reed, another Labour MP critical of Corbyn, announced just before Christmas that he was quitting to take a job in nuclear industry. His departure triggered a by-election that will be a three-way fight between Labour, the Conservatives and UKIP.
Andy Burnham, who lost out to Corbyn in the Labour leadership race, resigned as shadow home secretary in September to seek election as the mayor of Manchester.
Corbyn had a public falling out with his defense spokeswoman this week. Nia Griffith made clear she was “absolutely furious” after the Labour leader’s spokesman questioned Britain sending 800 troops to Estonia as part of a NATO task force to deter Russia.
Spain’s King Felipe will embark on a three-day tour of Saudi Arabia on Saturday, with local media speculating he may use the opportunity to close a multi-billion euro warship deal with Riyadh, AFP reported Friday.
Saudi Arabia last year sought to buy five Avante 2200 corvettes, built in Spain by state-owned ship building company Navantia, but the deal has yet to be finalized.
“We can only confirm that negotiations are very advanced,” a spokesman for Navantia told AFP. The deal is mooted to be worth €2 billion, though local paper La Voz de Galicia reported last year it could total as much as €3 billion.
Those who oppose it argue the sale breaches international law and accuse the Saudis of war crimes in Yemen. Amnesty International alleges the proposed sale violates the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty, which bans sales of weapons that could be used to attack civilians.
Unions say the deal would bring 2,000 jobs to Spain’s shipbuilding industry, according to AFP.
Spain is the world’s seventh largest arms exporter.
America’s troop and tank deployment in Central and Eastern Europe is a reasonable response to Russia’s aggression in the region, NATO Deputy Secretary-General Rose Gottemoeller told the BNS news agency in Lithuania, the Baltic Times reported.
“What the NATO alliance is doing … is proportionate and measured and defensive,” she said, adding it was acting in a “deliberate way” and “not hurrying into anything.”
Gottemoeller said the decision to deploy the 3,500 U.S. soldiers, 87 tanks, and 144 armored vehicles, which began arriving in Poland Thursday, was made in response to Russia’s threatening stance toward the Baltics and the alliance as whole.
Although officials were “concerned about Russia’s aggressive actions in recent years,” the alliance did not “see an immediate threat of Russian incursion into NATO spaces,” mostly because “NATO has done a lot in recent years to put into place deterrence and defense … against any power that will threaten” it.
But NATO is interested in dialogue with Moscow to reduce the risk of incidents, Gottemoeller said.
GENEVA — The first ever international meeting to reunify Cyprus ended after only a day of talks, with an agreement to set up a working group and continue discussing the toughest issues later this month.
Following a meeting at the United Nations on Thursday with the three countries charged with ensuring Cyprus’ independence and security — Greece, Turkey and the U.K. — the Turkish and Greek Cypriot leaders agreed to return home to focus on the last outstanding issues in the peace deal, the U.N. announced early Friday.
Next, they will establish a working group of deputies tasked with identifying the specific questions around a new framework to ensure the reunified country’s security, and instruments needed to address them. They will begin discussions January 18.
At the same time, the Turkish and Greek Cypriot sides will continue to negotiate remaining sticking points such as whether the new federal government’s presidency would rotate between the two sides and where to draw the boundary between their two constituent states.
“The conference will continue at [the] political level immediately thereafter to review the outcome of the working group’s discussions,” the U.N. said.
Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state, and Nicos Anastasiades, the Greek Cypriot leader and the country’s internationally recognized president, met in Geneva between Monday and Wednesday to discuss the outstanding issues.
In another significant step, the two sides exchanged maps on Wednesday evening of their proposals for a boundary between the Turkish Cypriot state in the north and Greek Cypriot side in the south.
It’s a particularly sensitive issue that will require Turkish Cypriots to give up some of their side to reflect their smaller population and economy and return significant sites to the Greeks. They are still negotiating over around 1 percent of the land.
Foreign ministers from Greece, Turkey and Britain, U.N. Secretary General António Guterres and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and the EU’s top diplomat, Federica Mogherini, joined the leaders on Thursday morning.
The question of how to replace the Greek, Turkish and British guarantee powers is also contentious and includes resolving the future of the 30,000 or so Turkish troops stationed in northern Cyprus.
Greek Cypriots want to do away with the security and guarantees system they see as outdated and don’t want Turkish troops on their land.
“We believe, especially on this important and very difficult chapter of security and guarantees, that the European Union can provide a solution for the benefit of all Cypriots,” Nikos Christodoulides, the Anastasiades government’s spokesman, told reporters Thursday afternoon.
Pointing to articles in the EU convention, he added, “the European Union is responsible for the security of its member states, it’s responsible for the European people.”
Turkish Cypriots, however, are nervous about severing ties with the only country that recognizes their government since Cyprus was divided.
The discussions on Thursday “underscored” the intentions on all sides to find a mutually acceptable deal on security and guarantees, the U.N. said.
“They recognized that the security of one community cannot come at the expense of the security of the other. They also acknowledged the need to address the traditional security concerns of the two communities while at the same time developing a security vision for a future united federal Cyprus,” it said.
Cyprus has been divided by a U.N.-enforced buffer zone since Turkey invaded the country in 1974. Akıncı and Anastasiades have been negotiating a reunification deal for the last 20 months, and aim to come to an agreement, draw up a new constitution and hold simultaneous referendums on both sides in the first half of this year.
While the Geneva conference ended sooner than many expected — following suggestions that it could continue through the weekend — the U.N. stressed the participants recognized it’s time to come to a “successful conclusion.”
“This is a historic opportunity that should not be missed.”
A tax lawyer has raised £70,000 through crowdfunding and appealed to the Irish attorney general for help in filing a case before the country’s High Court to fight the U.K. government’s Brexit process.
A so-called letter before action, the precursor to proceedings in the Irish High Court, will be issued Friday, and lawyers representing Jolyon Maugham will file their case on or before January 27.
Maugham also claimed to have “unconditional written confirmations” from several British politicians that they will act with him as plaintiffs in the case.
Maugham wants the Irish court to refer the case to the European Court of Justice to determine whether the U.K. can trigger Article 50 without consent from the 27 other EU countries. He also wants the court to decide whether once it is triggered, it can be unilaterally revoked by the U.K. without consent from the rest of the bloc.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has said that once Article 50 is triggered, there is no way to stop Brexit.
If the court rules Article 50 is revocable, the U.K. would be able to reject the Brexit deal struck by negotiators if it was “not acceptable to the U.K. parliament or British voters,” Maugham said in a statement.
The case will also seek to clarify what rights British citizens will lose after Brexit and when.
“The United Kingdom must retain sovereignty over the shape of its future relationship with the EU,” Maugham said in the statement. “If we change our minds we must be able to withdraw the notice without needing the consent of the other 27 member states. I want to establish clarity for British voters and deliver sovereignty to the British parliament over the question of its future relationship with its biggest trading partner.”
On Thursday afternoon, U.S. public service network C-SPAN’s online live video coverage of Congress abruptly switched to a live feed of the Kremlin-backed news channel Russia Today.
The livestream continued to show RT for about 10 minutes, before switching back to C-SPAN.
The sudden cut to RT, an English-language network funded by the Russian government, happened at about 2:30 p.m., while Rep. Maxine Waters was speaking about SEC regulation.
Deadspin editor Tim Burke, who was watching the C-SPAN livestream at the time, recorded a video of the sudden switch.
“This afternoon the online feed of C-SPAN was briefly interrupted by RT programming,” the network confirmed in a statement. “We are currently investigating and troubleshooting this occurrence. As RT is one of the networks we regularly monitor, we are operating under the assumption that it was an internal routing issue.”
“We don’t believe that we were hacked,” a statement from the channel released late Thursday said in part. “We take our network security very seriously and will continue with a deeper investigation, which may take some time.”
PONTASSIEVE, Italy — Matteo Renzi’s reappearance in Pontassieve, the town just east of Florence where his family lives, has caused a stir among residents akin to a Martian sighting.
Locals snapped shots of the former Italian Prime Minister pushing a shopping cart at the supermarket by the train station. And when Renzi entered the Far West pizzeria where he sometimes eats (regular order: two thin-crust pizzas and a Coke), many of the diners stood up to greet him, according to the restaurant’s owner, Maurizio Mandola.
Renzi, said Mandola, was “quite calm.” Since resigning after losing a constitutional referendum in early December, he told the restaurant owner, he had done a lot of swimming at the pool. Now, he said, he will have more time to go jogging.
But Renzi’s retreat to his roots and revamped fitness regime may be part of a bigger plan.
In 1953, the famous French leader Charles De Gaulle withdrew from political life and retired in Colombey-les-deux-Eglises, in the Champagne-Ardenne region. Five years later, he returned as prime minster to overhaul the country’s constitution and found the Fifth Republic.
Renzi, many believe, is hoping to accomplish a similar feat. The 41-year-old Tuscan had promised to withdraw from politics if his referendum failed. Instead, he has retained his role as leader of Italy’s Democratic Party, the largest party in the coalition supporting Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni’s government.
He may be back home, with his wife and children, and their PlayStation in the basement room. But the tools he has been using for work all these years are still with him: an iPhone, Apple computers, and an array of highlighters and colored pens, which he uses to mark up books and articles when he needs to memorize and distill them.
By dawn, Renzi is usually up, firing off Whatsapp messages to Rome and elsewhere. And during the day, a steady stream of visitors makes their way past the police and security detail stationed outside his front door and down into the basement.
Renzi has turned his homecoming into a part of the “storytelling” strategy he always deployed when he felt the need to revamp his image. He’s already written a new book — his fifth since launching his political career as president of the province of Florence — cutting back on sleep to finish it. It is expected to be published by Feltrinelli in Febuary.
The photographs of him with his shopping cart serve the same purpose — to show he’s a “normal” person, not a member of the hated political elite.
“I am an ordinary citizen again,” he wrote in a newsletter in December. “I have no parachute. I have no parliamentary seats, I have no salary, I do not have a life annuity, I have no immunity. I am starting all over again, as it should be. Politics for me is to serve the country, not to use it.”
Sources close to the former mayor of Florence said Renzi has suffered in the wake of his defeat. “He realized he has made some errors,” said one member of his staff. Now he is “a lion in a cage.”
He hoped, they said, to be able to stand for election again soon, preferably well before the end of the parliamentary term in 2018. A clear victory in the polls would provide him with a series of advantages: a new parliament made up, in part, of hand-picked MPs; a clear mandate to lead his fractious party, with whom he has had a sometimes stormy relationship; and a chance to relaunch its communications machine.
It would also likely put him back in the prime minister’s office. Renzi, said those close to him, has always preferred governing over trying to manage his political party, with all its personalities, factions, and internal conflicts.
But before that can happen he needs to work out what went wrong. Those in Renzi’s inner circle said he has been consumed with his failures in communication during the referendum campaign. As a politician obsessed with information control, and one of the first in the country to embrace and exploit social media, he has been frustrated by his inability to get his message out.
“We lost on the web,” he said while addressing his party at a recent meeting. “We left the web in the hands of those who currently are under the world’s eye … as speakers of falsehoods.”
At a moment when the governing elite are under siege, the Democratic Party’s main rival is the Euroskeptic 5Star Movement led by the iconoclastic standup comedian Beppe Grillo.
For Renzi — a politician who introduced himself to the public as the Italian spokesman of a disadvantaged generation — the test will be to recast himself once again as a challenge to the establishment.
In Europe, Renzi provides the only credible, constructive alternative to the technocratic, austerity-driven managing style exemplified by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said Giuliano da Empoli, head of the Volta European think-tank and a Renzi ally.
“He is the only one who has been trying to intercept the anti-establishment anger that is crossing Europe, in order not to build walls and tear up the Union, but to go in the opposite direction, to push Europe into giving real answers on economic growth, immigration and security.”
Had the referendum passed, Renzi could have played a decisive role in Europe in 2017, a time in which the French and German governments will be consumed with upcoming elections.
“Things could have been different,” said da Empoli. “But the problem remains the same.”
David Allegranti is the author of two biographies of Matteo Renzi.
PARIS — The French presidential primaries have so far been full of upsets and surprises.
But when the candidates competing for the Socialist nomination met for a televised debate Thursday night, there were few fireworks and even fewer bombshells as former Prime Minister Manuel Valls was forced to defend the legacy of the deeply unpopular President François Hollande and his government.
Pundits considered Valls, who resigned as PM to run for president after his boss Hollande passed on a second term, the favorite going into the debate. But polls now predict he will take fifth place in the first round of the general election, after conservative front-runner Fillon, far-right leader Marine Le Pen, liberal upstart Emmanuel Macron and hard-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who is not running in the Socialist primary, effectively eliminating Valls from the race early on.
Thursday’s debate did little to dispel the notion that any of the leading Socialist candidates would be able to pull together the votes needed to upset that equation.
Valls’ — and Hollande’s — economic policies were attacked by two of his former ministers, who are campaigning on left-wing platforms and criticizing the outgoing government’s record as too business-friendly. And the controversial labor reform that Valls rammed through Parliament last year, generating street demonstrations throughout the spring, provided rare sparks in a debate otherwise characterized by candidates laying out their plans to overhaul the economy, point-by-point.
Valls’ main challenger, Arnaud Montebourg, a former economy minister booted from the government in 2014 after making a bawdy joke at Hollande’s expense, said he would repeal the labor reforms.
“Repeal what exactly?” Valls answered in a rare heated moment. “The right for workers to negotiate?”
Montebourg claimed the changes hadn’t been discussed with unions — a point Valls contested.
“It’s impossible to pass a law for 29 million workers without consulting with their representatives in the unions or in parliament,” Montebourg said.
Benoît Hamon, a former education minister running neck-and-neck with Montebourg for second place, also said he would do away with the reform, insisting it made it too easy for companies to fire workers.
Valls, who in the first weeks of his campaign seemed to be trying to distance himself from Hollande’s record in order to appear, as he once described himself, a “true man of the left,” now seems happy to defend the past three years, saying at one point that “pride” was the word that came to his mind when thinking about Hollande’s presidency.
Montebourg, for his part, described Hollande’s term as “hard to defend.”
Among the conservative candidates from Les Républicains, the November debates effectively decided the race, with François Fillon’s calm demeanor and strong performance allowing him to stage a stunning come-from-behind victory. Nothing of the sort happened in the first Socialist debate, which may instead have scared people away from the upcoming second and third installments.
The format of the debate made it hard for candidates to address each other, which partly explains why it sounded at times like a dry collection of technocrats arguing the best possible taxation system.
In a country where public debt is hovering just below 100 percent of the gross domestic product, no candidate seemed interested in addressing the issue of public spending or how they would finance their proposed measures, such as Hamon’s policy for a basic minimum income.
Only Montebourg addressed the question of whether France should abide by the EU-imposed limit of a fiscal deficit smaller than 3 percent of GDP. He warned that if elected, he would ignore the rule because “it is a political objective that has not been accepted by the French.” Montebourg said there would be “discussions and confrontations with the EU on this absurd rule.”
Perhaps more surprising was the fact that none of the candidates seemed to find it necessary in the course of two hours to talk in depth about unemployment, which hovers around 10 percent, making France one of Europe’s hardest-hit economies.
The candidates, however, could agree on one thing: attacking Fillon’s vision for the future of the French state and questioning his defense of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
In addition to Hamon and Montebourg, the debate also included former education minister Vincent Peillon as well as members of three parties allied to the Socialists in Parliament: François de Rugy of the Ecologists, Jean-Luc Bennahmias, leader of the Front Démocrate, and Sylvia Pinel, leader of the Radical Party of the Left.
The first round of the Socialist primary will take place January 22, advancing to a run-off vote January 29. The final runoff of the presidential elections is scheduled for May 7.
Sweden’s center-left government on Thursday said it would not put forward a law that would force listed companies to have a certain number of female board members, Reuters reported.
The bill faced defeat after a majority of center-right and far-right opposition parties in parliament said they would vote against it, saying it is up to companies to decide on gender quotas.
Enterprise Minister Mikael Damberg said gender equality in boardrooms is going “far too slow.”
“With this announcement, the government won’t put forward the bill due to the parliamentary situation,” he added.
Last last year the government announced it wanted the number of female board members in listed companies to hit 40 percent by 2019. It was at 32 percent in 2016.
Under the proposed law, companies that failed to meet the target would have faced fines.
Less than two weeks after Malta began its presidency of the Council of the European Union, the country’s justice minister came under fire over his government’s involvement in the Panama Papers scandal and its cash-for-passports scheme.
At a hearing Thursday about Malta’s priorities for the presidency, MEPs grilled Owen Bonnici and Home Affairs Minister Carmelo Abela on whether the country will push through anti-money laundering legislation proposed after the Panama Papers scandal last year.
“I see corruption flourishing in your country,” said center-right Czech MEP Tomáš Zdechovský. “This is a serious problem for your country.”
Bonnici defended his government, saying it is committed to fighting corruption.
“I would like to make it clear here that we’re going to push forward the two proposals,” said Bonnici, referring to draft laws presented by the European Commission last year. “We’re committed to register progress.”
In April, it was reported that Konrad Mizzi, a senior minister and close ally of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, had opened offshore companies and trusts in New Zealand and Panama through Mossack Fonseca, the law firm at the heart of the scandal.
Mizzi, the opposition alleges, took kickbacks from companies involved in privatization deals for several hospitals and the island’s power station. The Maltese government rejected the allegations.
At a press conference Thursday in Valletta, Muscat defended Mizzi: “He didn’t do anything illegal but I think that he was politically insensitive,” he said, adding that a government audit would be “out soon.”
Muscat also said that Mizzi was taken off the energy portfolio when the scandal broke, though Mizzi spoke alongside Commission Vice President for Energy Union Maroš Šefčovič about energy policy on Wednesday and will chair Council gatherings of energy ministers over the next six months.
In a separate press conference Thursday, Mizzi refused to answer questions about whether he had closed his company in Panama, reminding reporters that he had opened libel cases against them last year.
During the hearing in Brussels, Dutch Green MEP Judith Sargentini said she found it “very painful” to see Maltese politicians accused of corruption at a time when the EU is meant to be leading the fight against money-laundering.
Questions were also asked about the Maltese government’s Individual Investor Program, through which more than 700 non-EU nationals have obtained EU citizenship in exchange for a donation and a property investment.
At a time when the EU is facing a migration crisis, “it seems to be ironic that [the sale of citizenship] is happening in Malta,” said Swedish Liberal MEP Cecilia Wikström. Portuguese Socialist MEP Ana Gomes suggested the scheme “was not only immoral [but also] quite defeating for our security.”
Bonnici said he was representing the 28 EU member countries and therefore preferred not to respond to questions about “local issues.”
However, he reminded MEPs that the Commission had already responded to their concerns about the passport sale scheme. He also noted that the Labour government had changed a law barring politicians from being prosecuted after ten years as evidence they are serious about fighting corruption.
Jacopo Barigazzi contributed to this story.
GENEVA — As Cypriot leaders tussle with Greece, Turkey and the U.K. over the most delicate parts of an agreement to reunify the island, there’s a growing fear that Russia could spoil a deal.
That’s because the Kremlin has little to gain from the end of a four-decade split between Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
A peace deal would ease tensions between the European Union and Turkey, open the way to formal cooperation between the EU and NATO (blocked because Turkey and Cyprus don’t officially recognize each other), give Turkey a new source of natural gas imports and hand Brussels a diplomatic success story after a series of blows last year.
None of those advance Russia’s interests.
The fear on the Greek Cypriot side is that Moscow is using social and mass media, as well as ties to fringe nationalist political parties and the Greek Orthodox Church, to undermine the settlement talks.
“The government is aware of Russian activities and monitoring the situation,” said a source close to the government of Nicos Anastasiades, Cyprus’ internationally recognized president and the Greek Cypriot leader.
The concern comes amid reports of the Kremlin intervening in U.S. and European elections with cyberattacks, “fake news” propaganda and support for populist and anti-establishment movements.
Russia isn’t directly involved in the discussions underway this week in Geneva between Anastasiades and Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state, and, as of Thursday, officials from Greece, Turkey, the U.K., the United Nations and the European Union.
But the worry is that it will use its soft power to influence public opinion, especially if the two sides reach a peace deal and start campaigning for a referendum in the coming months.
There’s some indication that Moscow has already started to do that. Russia’s ambassador to Cyprus, Stanislav Osadchiy, has drawn criticism on the island over the past month by sending mixed messages about his government’s position on reunification.
In what the Greek Cypriot newspaper Politis described as a “political blunder,” Osadchiy was the only foreign representative to attend a seminar in late December between five smaller political parties, where the focus was on opposing reunification and attacking Anastasiades’ role in the talks.
He was quickly summoned to the Cypriot foreign ministry to explain, Politis reported. A few days later, Osadchiy stressed his government’s support for a settlement deal, as well as its readiness to attend the Geneva meeting if the U.N. Security Council’s five permanent members were invited.
“We first of all support the solution, we expect difficult days ahead, but Russia sincerely wants a solution to the Cyprus problem and we hope that one will be achieved in Geneva,” Osadchiy said on December 30, according to the Famagusta Gazette. The Russian embassy in Cyprus could not be reached for comment.
Despite talk last month of inviting the Security Council members, in the end the Geneva meeting was limited to the Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders and the three countries currently charged with guaranteeing Cyprus’ independence and security. The United Nations facilitates the negotiations, as it has done since the process started 20 months ago, and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and the EU’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, attended as supportive observers.
The aim of the open-ended session is to come to a broad political agreement on the biggest sticking points in the talks, then allow Anastasiades and Akıncı to return to Cyprus and tie up the final issues.
The Cypriot government is wary of Russia because Moscow has caused problems in the past, trying to disrupt the only other chance Cyprus has ever had at reunification — a 2004 referendum on a U.N.-driven deal.
That agreement failed because Greek Cypriots rejected it, but Russia also vetoed a resolution in the U.N. Security Council on changes that would have taken effect if Cyprus had reunified, while the 14 other members voted in favor. It was Moscow’s first veto since 1994.
The question is whether Russia will do the same, either publicly or secretly, this time around.
“Russia is gaining something of the upper hand, has always been opposed to reunification, and now wields a large amount of influence over the process via the U.N. and via Turkey,” said Mujtaba Rahman, head of the Eurasia Group consultancy’s Europe analysis.
Along with Osadchiy’s attendance at the political seminar, there’s concern in Nicosia about negative news coverage of Anastasiades and apparent efforts to discredit him and the deal he’s negotiating.
One source of this coverage is the Moscow-based journalist and blogger John Helmer — named by KGB agents as an intelligence asset in the 1980s. He suggested in October that the U.S. government is pushing Anastasiades toward a deal that favors Turkey by, for instance, accepting “Turkish military occupation of northern Cyprus under a NATO flag,” aimed at loosening Russia’s links to the country.
An official from the Russian permanent representation to the EU rejected suggestions that Moscow was undermining Cyprus’ reunification, arguing that Russia has historically supported “a just and durable settlement,” including through resolutions at the U.N. Security Council in 1977 and 1979 and by offering a solution plan in 1986.
“All along we insisted that the two communities should be given an opportunity to decide, without external interference or artificial timelines, on the future of their country,” Russia’s EU Ambassador Vladimir Chizhov said in an emailed statement sent on Friday evening, after this article was first published. Both the Greek and Turkish Cypriot sides “actually thanked Moscow” for its “technical veto on an ill-prepared U.N.S.C. resolution” in 2004, he added.
“So, attempts to shift blame for the lack of success in efforts to settle the problem before a specific date or on the basis of artificially imposed templates are both unfair and misleading,” he added.
Ties between Moscow and Greek Cypriots run long and deep — financially, culturally, and politically.
Cyprus was the top destination for direct investment out of Russia in 2014, and the largest source of foreign investment into Russia, according to U.S. government data. Russia loaned Cyprus €2.5 billion during its 2011 financial crisis, and the two countries signed a military cooperation agreement in 2015 allowing Russian naval ships to stop in Cypriot ports for emergencies.
The island is a favored destination for Russian tourists and Moscow also sees itself as a defender of Orthodoxy, the predominant religion of Greek Cypriots.
But if Russia is interested in keeping Cyprus divided, it’s for broader geopolitical reasons, analysts and diplomatic sources said.
Those include the possibility that a united Cyprus could be pressured into joining NATO, the potential for Turkey and maybe the EU to import new gas supplies along a pipeline from Cyprus and Israel, and the diplomatic success reunification would deliver to both the EU and the U.S.
As long as Cyprus remains divided by a U.N. buffer zone, Turkey and the Anastasiades government don’t recognize each other. As a result, Turkey hampers NATO efforts to cooperate with the EU, Greek and Turkish relations in NATO remain tense, and Turkey remains reliant on gas deliveries from Russia’s Gazprom. The EU and Turkey are Gazprom’s top two customers.
“So there are concerns and reasons why one would believe Russia might not be necessarily supportive of a solution, although I need to underline that it has always in public rhetoric supported it,” said Harry Tzimitras, director of the PRIO Cyprus Centre, an independent research institute.
Despite Moscow’s public backing for reunification, stories like Osadchiy’s appearance at the political party seminar in December — where he received a round of applause, according to the Cyprus Mail — and his apparently “cordial” relationship with anti-reunification parties do raise eyebrows, a European diplomat following the talks said.
“Observing from the outside, there are elements that could make one think that maybe Moscow is cultivating other expectations [for the Cyprus talks],” the diplomat said, asking not to be named.
This article was amended on January 14 to add a comment from Russia’s EU Ambassador Vladimir Chizhov which arrived after publication.
The U.S. ambassador to NATO, Douglas Lute, is to leave Brussels next week, one of dozens of “political appointees” who were ordered by President-elect Donald Trump to resign before his inauguration.
Trump’s blanket order demanding the resignations of all political appointees serving as ambassadors is a break from past administrations, which permitted exceptions on a case by case basis.
The departure of Lute, who retired as a lieutenant general in the U.S. Army in 2010 after 35 years of active military duty and served as a White House aide to Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, highlights how some critically important posts will be vacant for weeks or even months at the start of Trump’s term.
While there has been speculation about a potential Trump nominee for ambassador to the EU, there has been no similar chatter about who might be his envoy to NATO. It is a particularly sensitive issue given the unease among allies over Trump’s campaign rhetoric criticizing the alliance and even raising doubts about his willingness to abide by the NATO treaty’s collective defense provision.
Trump has tapped South Carolina governor Nikki Haley to be his ambassador to the United Nations. The tycoon has made no secret of his appreciation for Brexit supporters like former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, and his intentions toward Europe and the transatlantic alliance were further called into question Thursday when the French far-right leader, Marine Le Pen, was spotted at Trump Tower.
Officials familiar with the transition process say planning at the State Department has lagged. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee this week held confirmation hearings for Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, the former Exxon CEO, Rex Tillerson.
Tillerson, like Trump, has no prior experience in government and does not have the ties in diplomatic or military circles that typically have allowed new secretaries of state to get a running start in the job.
Lute served Bush from 2007 to 2009 as assistant to the president and deputy national security adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan and remained at the White House as Obama’s deputy assistant to the president focusing on Afghanistan, Pakistan and India until 2013. Before retiring from the army he was director of operations on the Joint Staff and served numerous tours in NATO commands, including commanding U.S. forces in Kosovo.
Lute will be replaced temporarily by his deputy, Lee Litzenberger, who previously served as a senior NATO civilian official in Afghanistan, and in U.S. diplomatic posts in Serbia, Kyrgyzstan, at the Mission to the EU in Brussels, in Kazakhstan, Bulgaria, Algeria and France.
Unlike some politically-appointed ambassadors whose personal lives have been upended by Trump’s blanket resignation order, Lute’s second retirement from public service actually make his personal situation easier: his family lives in Virginia.
Poland’s centrist opposition announced the suspension of its blockade in parliament Thursday, citing concessions from the conservative government to ensure media access to the assembly, Reuters reported.
Another dispute, however, over the passage of the 2017 budget without the participation of most of the opposition, remains unresolved.
The ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party pushed through the budget last month while opposition MPs were blocking the main chamber in protest at new rules designed to limit journalists’ access to the parliament buildings.
PiS denied it had passed the budget illegally and threatened to fine or jail MPs as a result of the sit-in.
This week, PiS rejected the opposition Civic Platform (PO) party’s call to delay the post-holiday reopening of parliament until the budget dispute was resolved, but it did scrap plans to limit journalists’ coverage in the legislature.
“Considering that we have been able to bring back media access to parliament, we are suspending our protest,” said PO leader Grzegorz Schetyna. He called Thursday on Polish President Andrzej Duda, who is also from the PiS party, not to sign the budget, Deutsche Welle reported.
“This marks the end of one stage and the start of another,” Schetyna told journalists.
Parliament speaker Marek Kuchciński suspended parliament proceedings until January 25, saying “an in-depth analysis of what happened here these last few weeks is necessary.”
French far-right leader Marine Le Pen was seen at Trump Tower in New York on Thursday.
According to her campaign chief of staff, David Rachline, the National Front chief is making a private visit to the U.S., Bloomberg reported. Rachline said a planned meeting with Trump or officials close to him was not “on her public agenda.”
Photographs shared on social media showed Le Pen sitting at a table inside Trump Tower, along with a party official and George “Guido” Lombardi, an Italian real-estate developer and neighbor of President-elect Donald Trump who acts as an informal go-between and fixer, and has had repeated contact with Le Pen’s entourage.
Several party officials contacted for comment did not immediately respond.
It was not clear whether Le Pen was due to meet with Trump. Members of her party, notably her representative in New York, told POLITICO late last year that a meeting between the two was “just a matter of time.”
The unannounced visit comes days before Trump will be inaugurated as president of the United States. Trump had no plans to meet with Le Pen, according to an aide to the president-elect, media reports said.
France’s Europe1 Radio reported that Le Pen had met members of Trump’s entourage on Wednesday.
The visit also comes three months before the first round of the presidential election in France. Opinion polls suggest that Le Pen and the center-right’s François Fillon are the favorites to make it to the second round of the election in May.

VALLETTA — Assuming the presidency for the first time, the island, which has a population of less than half a million people, will tackle the start of Brexit talks and the potential for political shocks in French and Dutch elections — not to mention the opening months of Donald Trump’s presidency.
Fear: With populist movements growing across the Continent, the presidency gets off to an anxious start. Joseph Muscat, Malta’s prime minister, pushed the EU’s institutions to live up to the task.
“People are essentially fed up with the current system,” he told journalists at a press conference on Thursday. “They feel that the institutions as they are, don’t provide the correct answers.”
But Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Commission, said it was something else that had changed. In Brussels, “pessimism is not something new,” he said on Wednesday.
The real difference was the scale of the challenges faced by the EU, he said. “When I was appointed president of the Commission … I wanted to play a constructive role, without being euro-enthusiastic or euro fanatic — these are not very helpful behaviors. I wanted to bring the European integration to a point of no return. What I am in charge [of] now, together with Joseph and others, is a major deconstruction we are asked to organize.”
Realism: Perhaps in an effort to manage expectations, realism and pragmatism are the order of the day — and were often on the lips of Muscat and his deputy prime minister Louis Grech as they launched Malta’s presidency.
Realism was also evident in the lack of soaring ambition in Muscat’s priorities for the 6-month presidency. On migration, he said that Malta will try to make progress on border controls and “responsibility sharing” — a code world for Dublin convention that mandates that refugees must seek asylum in the first EU country they arrive in.
As if to emphasize the challenge posed by migration, even the entertainment at the gala event to launch Malta’s presidency was on that theme. The Maltese Philharmonic Orchestra performed a piece composed for the occasion by a young local composer, Albert Garzia, inspired by the issue.
When Muscat was asked specifically for examples realistic ambitions he mentioned only border control. “I do believe that we can achieve progress on migration if we focus on the border issue,” he said. Any talk of reforming the Dublin convention was conspicuous by its absence — perhaps too hard to fit into the “realistic” rubric.
Reunion: This seems to be what the Maltese presidency would really like to be remembered for – it is emblazoned at the top of the presidency website. Muscat says he wants to focus “on the social element that has been totally discarded in the last few years, it’s an occasion for reunion, these are values we almost take for granted.”
He emphasized the point at a gala event, insisting that “we must find the unity we have lost” and the goal is “about reuniting member states.”
There is much at stake for Muscat. The 42-year-old former journalist and MEP faces elections early next year with the start of campaigning straight after the end of the presidency. He and the Labor party have been on a political journey from euro-skepticism to euro-enthusiasm, a conversion that may put him in a good position to understand the political forces that are rocking the European Union.
Birmingham City University has announced it will launch a Centre for Brexit Studies (CBS) to “further enhance understanding of the consequences” of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union.
The center will not take a pro or anti position but engage with arguments from both the Leave and the Remain camps. Its academics will collaborate with businesses, professional organisations and civil society groups on issues including cultural identity, hate crime, radicalisation, climate change and national security.
“With the vote of the UK to leave the EU it is now crucial to gain an understanding of the complexities that Brexit entails for individuals, communities, business and government, whilst clearing up misconceptions around its impact,” said Alex de Ruyter, director of research at Birmingham University’s Business School.
The first conference to be held by the center, which is free to the general public, will “explore Brexit’s challenges for business and society” with a focus on trade, business, employment, and education among others.
Seven of the candidates competing to be president of the European Parliament — all leaders or leading figures in their parties — revealed a decidedly practical approach to Brexit, in a POLITICO Presidential debate Wednesday night in Brussels. That matters: Parliament has a veto over any final Brexit deal.
First the basics: All seven political parties participating (and presumably also Nigel Farage’s EFDD group) accept that Brexit will happen. If there’s to be a second referendum, parliamentary revolt or ongoing court challenges, the push isn’t going to come from Brussels.
None of the candidates objected to Jean Lambert, the British candidate for the Greens, standing in the election. That counts as an indication that the U.K. will continue to exercise all its EU rights until after it leaves the bloc.
Most importantly the candidates laid out their red lines for a Brexit deal.
Lambert defended the historic rights of EU nationals (both British and from elsewhere) who live abroad. “I wouldn’t want to see those rights set aside,” as divorce terms are settled, she said.
Eleonora Forenza (Left), Guy Verhofstadt (Liberal), and Gianni Pittella (Socialist) all insisted free movement of people must be a condition of single market access. “The four freedoms are inseparable, no question to give in on that, including the freedom of movement,” said Verhofstadt, who is also Parliament’s Brexit coordinator.
Verhofstadt and the conservative Helga Stevens insisted the U.K. must not enjoy the same benefits outside the EU as in. “If the UK is better off out than it is now, that’s my red line. But my belief is that it needs to be a fair deal … they will still be a part of Europe,” Stevens said.
Pittella said any threat to peace in Northern Ireland would be a red line for him.
Tajani, currently the slight favorite to win the presidency, notably did not mention the “four freedoms” as a red line, but said that the Parliament should have a strengthened consultative role. However, he was firm that Parliament should not try to second-guess the European Commission as the lead negotiating EU institution.
Contrary to delicious rumors of English being sidelined as an EU “working language” upon British departure, that’s not on the menu either. Only Marine Le Pen’s Europe of Nations and Freedom party wants English relegated post Brexit (and even they delivered that message in English during Wednesday night’s debate).
If Guy Verhofstadt is elected Parliament president (unlikely in my view), he suggested the German Christian Democrat Elmar Brok or Italian Social Democrat Roberto Gualtieri could take his place as Parliament Brexit coordinator.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
VALLETTA — Europe won’t use the Brexit negotiations to undermine the U.K. economy and any transition period should be brief to avoid prolonged uncertainty, said Prime Minister Joseph Muscat of Malta, which currently has the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union.
“Nobody is out to destroy the British economy,” he told a news conference on Thursday, adding that it was in everyone’s interests “that the British economy and all economies on which Europe depends, and which depend on Europe, remain as strong as possible.”
Muscat said the 27 countries who will remain in the EU are not “out to get them” — referring to Britain — but wanted to “solve a problem that wasn’t brought from the European side.”
The Maltese premier said the European Commission’s lead negotiator on Brexit, Michel Barnier, has a “very good roadmap” for the transition period and it was clear that “it’s not a period where British institutions take over” — for example, the European Court of Justice, one of the institutions most disliked by the pro-Brexit camp, will play a crucial role.
The transition period should be short because “very long discussions without decisions lead to uncertainty and uncertainty is not good for business and is not good for jobs,” said Muscat, whose country is in what he called the “curious situation” of currently chairing the Commonwealth (formerly the British Commonwealth) as well as the European Council.
Six of the MEPs running for president of the European Parliament support stripping Poland of its voting rights in the Council of the EU if it does not address concerns about judicial independence and the rule of law.
During a POLITICO-sponsored presidential debate Wednesday evening, the candidates for the two largest groups — Antonio Tajani of the European People’s Party and Gianni Pittella of the Alliance of Socialists & Democrats — agreed sanctions should be imposed on the Polish government if it does not implement recommendations made by the European Commission last year.
“The problem is if there are decisions that show … there have been breaches,” said Tajani. “If there are rules and these rules have been breached then yes [they should be sanctioned].”
Pittella said sanctions should be imposed “if there are the conditions [for doing so].”
The Polish government has been facing down Brussels, which has criticized the right-wing Law and Justice party’s changes to the functioning of the country’s highest court.
The Commission reiterated its demands just before Christmas, giving the government until the end of February to reverse the changes. If it fails to do so it risks a formal warning from the Council, which would require MEPs’ approval, and ultimately, if it doesn’t change course, the suspension of its voting rights in the Council of the EU.
When asked if sanctions should be imposed on Warsaw over the Commission’s rule of law concerns, even Helga Stevens — the candidate for the European Conservatives and Reformists to which the Law and Justice party’s 19 MEPs belong — agreed.
“Yes. Yes, I mean if they have broken the rule of law, absolutely,” she said.
The radical left candidate, Eleonora Forenza, Guy Verhofstadt of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and Jean Lambert of the Greens/European Free Alliance all agreed that Poland should face sanctions. Laurenţiu Rebega from the Europe of Nations and Freedom Group was the only candidate to disagree.
There are eight candidates for the role of Parliament president, to be voted on in a plenary session next Tuesday. The Europe for Freedom and Direct Democracy group’s nominee, Piernicola Pedicini, did not attend the POLITICO debate.
Beware of robots.
The European Parliament’s Legal Affairs Committee approved a report Thursday warning against the imminent rise of robots and demanded the Commission draft rules to prevent robots from dominating humans.
“In order to address this reality and to ensure that robots are and will remain in the service of humans, we urgently need to create a robust European legal framework,” said the report’s author Mady Delvaux, a Socialists & Democrats MEP from Luxembourg, in a press release.
With references to Isaac Asimov (“I, Robot”) and Mary Shelley (“Frankenstein”), her report requests a legal status for robots and a basic income for workers who lose their jobs to machines that can work 24 hours without lunch or cigarette breaks.
“Whereas, until such time, if ever, that robots become or are made self-aware, Asimov’s laws must be regarded as being directed at the designers, producers and operators of robots, since those laws cannot be converted into machine code,” the report starts.
It goes on to express concern for human-robot relationships: “This is especially the case for care robots towards which particularly vulnerable people can develop emotional feelings and attachment, thus causing concerns over human dignity and other moral values.”
Committee members proposed 386 amendments, but the final version was little changed and was passed 17-2, with two abstentions.
The report will go to a full plenary vote in February. After that, the Commission will decide if it will follow Delvaux’s recommendations.
However, Parliament overall appears skeptical, and two other committees recommended against robot legislation.
“Robots, robotic systems and technologies are already transforming our industry and society, and I believe for the better … and should not be feared,” said Czech Liberals MEP Dita Charanzová, who wrote another committee report.
She said Delvaux’s report is out of touch with reality, but added: “We do need a legal framework to address issues like liability as more automated products, like self-driving cars, enter the daily lives of our citizens. It is the boring bits of the report that are important, much more than any references to the Golem of Prague or Asimov’s laws.”
Dutch Foreign Minister Bert Koenders on Thursday said he is on alert about possible Russian cyberattacks targeting the parliamentary election in the Netherlands.
Koenders told broadcaster NOS that although he does not have “concrete evidence” about such interference, he is “not naive” about the possibility of a security threat before or during the vote on March 15.
The minister, who is on a visit to Washington, said he spoke with U.S. security experts and politicians about the worries the Dutch have about cyberattacks, after Russia was formally accused of hacking the Democratic Party’s computer networks.
The Dutch parliament called for a debate about the issue, local media reported, after intelligence service AIVD warned about election interference. According to the AIVD, authorities and companies should not “underestimate” the effect of unwanted Russian hacking.
The remarks follow German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s comments in November that Russia may try to influence Germany’s general election this fall through cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns.
MEPs on Thursday gave their blessing to Günther Oettinger becoming European commissioner for budget and human resources, a spokesman for the assembly said.
Martin Schulz, the departing president of the Parliament, will pass on to Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, a letter from several committee chairs saying Oettinger has “the necessary professional experience” for the job.
The Parliament’s decision was anticipated, as the former digital commissioner emerged unscathed from an exchange of views with MEPs on Monday.
Juncker picked Oettinger to succeed Kristalina Georgieva after she left for the World Bank in October, in part so the German might push Berlin for potentially greater financial support for the EU after Brexit.
But the German commissioner was caught in a political firestorm after describing Chinese diplomats as Schlitzaugen (“slant eyes”) and failing to disclose a trip on a private jet belonging to a powerful German lobbyist.
The letter, a copy of which was obtained by POLITICO, was signed by the chairs of the budget, budgetary control and legal affairs committees.
Though it praised Oettinger’s experience and skills, the letter also said that some members of the legal affairs committee were concerned about his “lack of strategic vision as regards gender mainstreaming.”
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble has pledged to push to reform the EU budget post-Brexit to force countries to implement reforms if they want continued access to funds, German newspaper Handelsblatt reported Thursday.
“We shouldn’t be talking about more money for the EU budget, but how to make better use of our resources,” Deputy Finance Minister Jens Spahn told Handelsblatt. The move would add pressure on countries who rely on EU structural funds to actually implement the European Commission’s yearly reform recommendations.
Germany will also propose new procedures for doling out EU structural funds. This would be “the first step toward more focused financing of European projects,” Spahn said. “We want to put certain conditions on receiving structural funds,” adding that countries should only be allowed access to the funds for projects that contribute to the EU’s reform proposals.
“This would be a useful connection,” Spahn said, because it would force member countries to take the EU’s recommendations seriously.
In November, Spahn told POLITICO the EU should not expect its budget to stay flush once Britain leaves the bloc. The looming departure of a major net contributor, combined with a review of the EU budget slated for 2020, means Germany will have significant leverage in arguing for reformed budget rules.
“When a country wants to get support from the EU, it should accept to implement these recommendations,” Spahn said. “But if a country claims access to an EU-fund, then at least part of it — and I would say for the most part — should be linked to the country-specific recommendations.”
“[We] need stronger incentives for the member states to implement these proposals,” he added.
With Brexit negotiations likely to begin in March, the U.K. is expected to leave the EU by mid-2019. “It makes sense to negotiate beforehand where we’re headed,” Spahn said.
The EU’s current budget cycle, or multiannual financial framework (MFF), runs from 2014 to 2020, but Germany will push to bring the start of the next cycle forward a year to 2019.
More than 3,000 American soldiers, along with tanks and armored vehicles, began arriving in Poland Thursday, the BBC reported.
The deployment – hailed as the largest U.S. military reinforcement of Europe since the Cold War — is part of U.S. President Barack Obama’s attempts to reassure NATO allies in Eastern Europe, rattled by Russia. Troops will rotate every nine months.
The move comes a week before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration. Trump has previously signaled he would seek to reset relations with Moscow, and has expressed admiration of Russia’s President Vladimir Putin.
The U.S. will also carry out military exercises in the Baltics.
Anne Hidalgo, the Socialist mayor of Paris, has blamed the French left’s weakness on President François Hollande’s bad policies and called the past five years “a huge waste,” in an interview with Le Monde published Thursday.
Last month, the mayor threw her support for the French presidency behind former education minister and MEP Vincent Peillon. Speaking to Le Monde, Hildago said the Socialist Party member “elevated the debate” and represented “an expression of social democracy” that could reconcile the flailing left and take it into the second round.
Social democracy, she said, is “under threat” as a result of the bad policies and “ignorance” of France’s ruling politicians.
“There are three people responsible for this huge waste: Hollande, [Economy Minister Emmanuel] Macron and [Prime Minister Manuel] Valls,” Hidalgo told Le Monde.
“They have led us into a state of total confusion,” she added. “I blame them for that.”
Presidential primaries are set to be held January 22 and 29, ahead of elections in April-May. Seven candidates are currently in the running, including Valls, who is seen as the leading contender to win his party’s nomination.
Christopher Steele, the former MI6 officer identified by the Wall Street Journal as the author of a compromising dossier on U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, has fled his Surrey home due to fears for his safety, the Telegraph reported Thursday.
The 52-year-old, who worked for Britain’s Secret Intelligence Service in Russia and Paris and for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London, had compiled a 35-page document about the Kremlin’s alleged ties to Trump’s presidential campaign.
On Tuesday, CNN, BuzzFeed and other media outlets reported that intelligence officials told Trump about the report in a security briefing last Friday. BuzzFeed published the document, which Trump has since denounced as “fake news.”
The report included unverified allegations that Russian security services held compromising material on Trump that could be used to blackmail him.
Steele’s research was funded by anti-Trump Republicans and later by Democrats, according to the Telegraph’s report.
Trump vehemently denied Russia has compromising material on him, saying the country had never tried to use leverage. He tweeted: “Intelligence agencies should never have allowed this fake news to ‘leak’ into the public. One last shot at me. Are we living in Nazi Germany?”
Outgoing U.S. director of national intelligence James Clapper was skeptical of the report and said he did not believe the leaks to the press came from the intelligence community.
Trump’s team has shifted its tone on Russia in recent weeks — from emphasizing the benefits of cooperating with Moscow to claiming Russia’s President Vladimir Putin will respect and even fear the U.S. under Trump.
But Trump still appears to be hopeful he will hit it off with the Russian leader, saying at a press conference on Wednesday: “If Putin likes Donald Trump, guess what, folks? That’s called an asset, not a liability.”
Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern will submit a request to the European Union to let employers prioritize locals over outsiders in hiring decisions, the BBC reported.
“These Eastern European countries are exporting their joblessness to Austria,” the center-left politician said at the launch of a 10-year economic plan focused on job creation Wednesday night.
Kern’s Social Democrats (SPÖ) are struggling to win back support from the far-right Freedom Party (FPÖ), whose ranks have swelled as a result of fears over immigration and unemployment.
“I understand your disappointment,” he said, addressing SPÖ voters, Austrian newspaper Kurier reported. “You haven’t strayed, we have. It is not your fault, it is ours.”
Kern pledged to create 200,000 jobs — eliminating joblessness — by 2020, according to Kurier.
Independent and former Green Alexander van der Bellen narrowly defeated anti-immigration candidate Norbert Hofer in Austria’s presidential race in December. It was the first presidential election not to feature the two parties that have dominated Austrian politics since World War II, the SPÖ and People’s Party (ÖVP).
MADRID — Mariano Rajoy seems to believe the time is right for Spain to reclaim its place at the EU’s top table, reversing more than a decade of decaying Spanish influence in Brussels just in time for Brexit negotiations.
After an economic crisis that wiped 10 percent off its economic output, and almost a year of political instability following two inconclusive elections, Spain now has a fully functioning government and one of the strongest growth rates in the EU. Rajoy now touts his country as a “reliable” partner for the EU, offer advice on how to fight populism by delivering growth, and defend the role of “moderate parties” in shoring up the European project.
It is a reversal of fortune for Spain, and comes at a time when the other weighty European players are off kilter, distracted by coming elections (Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands), wobbly economies (France, Italy), domestic political upheavals brought on by referendums (the out-of-EU-heading U.K) or the ascendance to power of anti-EU, anti-liberal governments (Poland).
But Spain, which last played a prominent role on the larger European stage in the first years of the 21st century, returns to a different kind of Europe, riven by crises and doubts. It is hardly clear what domestic stability and any renewed influence could be used to accomplish at the European level, beyond making a stronger play for top jobs in Brussels and strengthening the ranks of firmly pro-EU countries. The cloud of a Catalan push for independence later this year could also prematurely end a period of relative domestic tranquility.
Still for the time being, the conservative government is presenting this Spain as a solid bastion of pro-European values and moderate policies the EU can count on in these uncertain times. Ministers are marketing Spain as a case study on how to boost the economy and reign in extremism at a time of rising populism across the Continent and political uncertainty as the Dutch, French and Germans head to the polls this year and Britain prepares to leave the EU.
Spain is almost alone in Europe in having no anti-EU political forces in parliament, and Rajoy doesn’t have to call an election until 2020, though his Popular Party only has a third of the seats in parliament, potentially limiting his ability to negotiate in Brussels.
“Our international presence was affected by the long period of interim government,” Rajoy said at a press conference on December 30. “We now have to catch up … and the circumstances are especially favorable for it.”
Rajoy’s decision in November to appoint Alfonso Dastis as foreign minister — as Spain’s ambassador to the EU since 2011, Dastis had been at the prime minister’s side during European summits — was widely seen as proof of his eagerness to play a bigger role in EU matters once more.
Following the Brexit vote in June, with Rajoy’s political future still uncertain, the Spanish prime minister was conspicuous by his absence as the leaders of Germany, France and Italy held talks on the way ahead.
However, with Italy’s Matteo Renzi now out of office after losing a referendum on constitutional reform and France’s François Hollande not seeking reelection this year, Spain’s hopes of rejoining the ranks of the EU’s big beasts have been revived.
“We have left behind a period in which Spain … was perceived as a problem for Europe,” Dastis said last month. “Now it is the project of European building that is going through a problematic phase and it is Spain that is ready to contribute to relaunch it.”
In an interview with El País last weekend, the foreign minister said the European Commission and the European Council had asked Spain to play a bigger role in EU affairs.
“We want Spain to strengthen its position as a leading player … in the current redefinition of the European Union,” Dastis told lawmakers, adding the country should play a more “assertive” and “active” role in Brussels.
It remains to be seen how realistic such aspirations are, but Spain’s relative weight in the EU definitely has room for improvement.
“Spain has an opportunity,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters, acknowledging the economic crisis and the lack of a government for most of 2016 meant Spain had “suffered a major loss of weight in the EU institutions.”
The most obvious symptom of its declining influence in Brussels is the lack of Spanish officials in key EU posts — quite a come-down for a country that had three presidents of the European Parliament between 1989 and 2007, not to mention Javier Solana in the post of EU foreign policy chief from 1999 to 2009 and Pedro Solbes and Joaquín Almunia in top economic jobs in the Commission from 1999 to 2014. Spain’s current representative on the Commission, Miguel Arias Cañete, is the more junior of two commissioners dealing with the energy portfolio.
A survey by the European Council on Foreign Relations showed that of the six largest EU member countries, Spain played the most marginal role in EU affairs.
Pundits in Spain pin the responsibility for this state of affairs not just on Rajoy’s government, but previous Spanish prime ministers too.
Salvador Llaudes, a researcher for Instituto Elcano, a think tank, said Spain’s clout in Brussels started declining during the second mandate of the conservative José María Aznar (1996-2004) when he changed foreign policy direction and supported the war in Iraq, alienating France and Germany. The situation continued to deteriorate under the Socialist leadership of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (2004-2011), with his focus on the United Nations and lack of interest in forging alliances on the Continent, Llaudes said.
Spain joined the EU in 1986 under Felipe González, a time widely seen as the peak of Spanish influence in the EU.
Carlos Westendorp, foreign minister at the time, said this had much to do with Socialist leader González’s personality and his talent in face-to-face meetings, which allowed him to forge strong alliances with the likes of Germany’s Helmut Kohl.
One problem facing Spain as it seeks to make up for lost time in Brussels is the absence of a leader like González, according to Westendorp.
Rajoy and Zapatero have been criticized for not speaking good English and being unable to build relationships with their counterparts. Although this image may be exaggerated, Westendorp said that “there’s some truth to every caricature.”
Llaudes of Instituto Elcano argued that, perhaps more seriously, both Zapatero and Rajoy showed a “lack of ambition” in Europe.
With just days to go in the race for president of the European Parliament, the EU cognoscenti in Brussels are confronting an unsettling new reality: No one knows who is going to win.
In a remarkable turn for an institution where leadership posts were long divvied up in hidden, backroom deals, candidates are campaigning fiercely for the job and jockeying for alliances with minority political groups. And surrogates for the leading contenders — Antonio Tajani of the center-right European People’s Party (EPP) and Gianni Pittella of the left-leaning Progressive Alliance of Socialists & Democrats (S&D) — are actually attacking each other.
Manfred Weber, the German MEP who leads the EPP group, accused Pittella and Guy Verhofstadt, the candidate of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE), of trying to cut the so-called “cordon sanitaire” by which the bigger pro-EU parties have blocked Euroskeptics from getting any foothold in the Parliament’s leadership.
“Let me make it clear that anyone that wants to break that pact between pro-European forces, well, those groups are responsible for allowing Euroskeptics and radicals to influence decisions in this house,” Weber said. “We don’t want that to come to pass and we will fight with every breath of our body to prevent it happening.”
Udo Bullman, a German MEP in the S&D, denounced Tajani as the “president of austerity,” linking him to the fiscal policies that countries like Greece and Italy view as a chokehold.
“Tajani is a leading light in the neoliberal political family that has made austerity a political dogma across Europe,” Bullman said in a statement. “Politicians of the ‘ancien regime’ like him have defended and enforced the antisocial economic policy that has plunged Europe into the worst economic and social crisis of its history.”
“Europe is still bearing the brutal consequences of austerity policies,” Bullman added. “As socialists and democrats, we want a new direction for Europe based on investments, tax justice and social inclusion.”
Such rhetorical combat between the EPP and S&D, which have led the EU in partnership for more than a decade, would have been unthinkable just months ago. And some wizened veterans of the Parliament cautioned the new politicking was little more than a facade — because ultimately the Parliament cannot function without a working coalition of the major, pro-European political groups.
Underscoring that point, French MEP Sylvie Goulard of ALDE circulated a proposal on Wednesday afternoon stressing the need for a grand bargain and even suggesting the election, scheduled for next Tuesday in Strasbourg, be postponed to allow a deal to take shape. Goulard, who had put herself forward as a candidate for president before her group’s leader, Verhofstadt, decided to run himself, also called for transparency in the negotiations — which would be another remarkable turn.
“There is a large risk, especially when the vote takes place by secret ballot, that the president will be elected by a simple majority, with the support of the extremists,” Goulard wrote. Noting that Parliament will have to approve any Brexit agreement, Goulard added: “If we want to avoid putting the future of the EU in danger then a reasonable solution absolutely needs to be found.”
However the events ultimately play out, the robust campaigning, including a POLITICO-sponsored debate among the candidates on Wednesday evening, suggests a fundamental shift that was hardly what party leaders envisioned when they hatched a secret power-sharing agreement in 2014. It also partly reflects the changed nature of the Parliament, which has seen its stature rise largely on the force of the personality of outgoing President Martin Schulz of the S&D.
An MEP from Germany since 1994, Schulz rose to prominence in 2003 after Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, then presiding over the European Council, responded to criticism from Schulz by saying he should be cast as a Nazi guard in a movie about concentration camps. Schulz, who won the presidency as part of a more traditional Brussels political deal in 2012, had been maneuvering as recently as two months ago to stay on for an unprecedented third term, in violation of the power-sharing agreement that would have transferred the presidency to the EPP at the start of this year.
His decision in late November to abandon Brussels for the Bundestag caught everyone, including his colleagues in the S&D, by surprise and threw the race wide open.
Pittella, the Italian leader of the S&D group, then followed Schulz’s move by abandoning both the power-sharing deal and the Grand Coalition that has run the European Parliament since 2014.
Despite the heated campaigning, the contest for the presidency is still a numbers game that can only be won by forging some sort of deal among the largest of the rival groups. And unlike in a national election, what sways votes is not necessarily a candidate’s political views but what he or she can offer colleagues.
Put another way: The coalition is dead; long live the coalition.
“The Grand Coalition is inescapable and has been since 1979,” said French MEP Alain Lamassaoure, referring to the year when direct elections of MEPs began.
“Breaking the Grand Coalition, it’s Italian theater,” said Lamassaoure, who ran unsuccessfully against Tajani in the EPP’s presidential primary. “If we want to get out of this practice, we will let Euroskeptic groups arbitrate the EU’s political choices. And we can’t allow that.”
The EPP, which is not only the largest group in Parliament with 217 MEPs, but also the party of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, European Council President Donald Tusk and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, has perhaps the greatest stake in preserving a coalition.
The S&D is the second-largest group with 189 MEPs, followed by European Conservatives and Reformists (74 MEPs) and ALDE (68 MEPs).
In a news conference Tuesday, Weber, the leader of the EPP group, defended the Parliament’s previous leadership deals as a normal part of open democracy, while simultaneously making public for the very first time the written power-sharing agreement signed in 2014 — a document that even most MEPs had never seen.
“This type of partnership arrangement is normal in democracy,” he said at a news conference, adding, “so we shouldn’t see this as doing a deal behind closed doors.”
In his press conference, Weber slammed Pittella and Verhofstadt, the ALDE leader, for their efforts to cut deals with fringe groups in pursuit of votes, while simultaneously excoriating the two men for abandoning the deal with the EPP.
In one breath, Weber insisted the EPP’s door was always open and Tajani “wants to be the president of the Parliament as a whole.” In the next, he insisted there would be no discussions whatsoever with Euroskeptic MEPs — and the EPP would battle any effort to let down the “cordon sanitaire.”
Contradictions aside, Weber had a very straightforward main point: the S&D signed an agreement with the EPP to split the five-year presidential term between the Parliament’s two largest groups. And the S&D — after holding the presidency for the first half of the term — has now refused to honor the deal. The S&D has argued the deal was invalidated when Tusk, rather than a left-leaning candidate, became Council president.
Winning the presidency requires an outright majority of however many of the 751 MEPs vote Tuesday. The balloting is secret and up to four rounds are possible. In the event of a tie, the older candidate wins.
In pursuit of the votes, Verhofstadt tried and failed, rather spectacularly, to forge an alliance with Italy’s Euroskeptic 5Star Movement. Tajani also briefly courted the 5Stars in December but nothing came of the talks. Meanwhile, Pittella and the S&D remained in ongoing negotiations with smaller groups including those representing greens, communists and potentially others.
Pittella met Wednesday, for instance, with the radical left European United Left/Nordic Green Left (GUE/NGL). In courting their support, one attendee said, Pittella promised to fight the German-led fiscal austerity policies that have dominated the EU’s response to the euro crisis.
Responding to Weber and the EPP, Jens Geier, the head of the German S&D delegation, insisted Tuesday a coalition was not necessary to maintain a pro-European course in Parliament.
“Over the last decades MEPs have shown in their daily work and on the basis of the vast amount of legislation they have adopted, that we do not need a Grand Coalition to ensure stability in this House,” Geier said in a statement.
 
BERLIN — Old Europe is witnessing the return of a long-dormant force in its civic discourse — politics.
The barrage of Brexit, the rise of populism and the election of Donald Trump has charged Europe’s political atmosphere, galvanizing the public and politicians across the region.
From the well of the European Parliament in Brussels to the salons of Berlin, the consensus-driven, sleep-inducing debate is giving way to a rawer, nastier, no-holds-barred exchange long absent in Western European democracy.
Old alliances are cracking under the stress of growing voter frustration, and politicians are abandoning the center as the battle of ideas moves from the mainstream to the fringes. Voters, depending on passport and political persuasion, are demanding action on a range of intractable issues, from refugees to Russia to austerity.
With Europe heading into an election year that could redraw the political map from France to Germany, the pistols-at-dawn atmosphere threatens to leave behind a scorched landscape and an even more divided EU — not to mention a tattered transatlantic alliance.
“It’s a much more political landscape than it was a few years ago,” said Jan Techau, director of the Richard C. Holbrooke Forum for the Study of Diplomacy and Governance at the American Academy in Berlin. “People are fed up.”
The collapse of the gentleman’s agreement between Europe’s largest parties over the European Parliament’s presidency is just the latest sign the affable, one-hand-washes-the-other approach to European politics is dying as the political elite sees its future at stake.
For better or worse, mainstream politicians are increasingly reaching into the populist toolbox by mischaracterizing facts and resorting to personal attacks.
While such tactics have been a mainstay of Eastern Europe’s rough-and-tumble politics, they’re less prevalent in countries with more staid political cultures, such as Germany.
Just this week, a top aide to Angela Merkel raised eyebrows by saying that the head of the liberal Free Democrats, long the preferred partner of the chancellor’s conservatives, was no different than a leader of the far-right Alternative for Germany party. The takedown appeared to be payback for the Free Democrat leader’s criticism of Merkel.
German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel, the leader of the Social Democrats and Merkel’s likely challenger in upcoming elections, also went on the attack. Gabriel, who has governed alongside Merkel for nearly four years, blamed her for the rise of the far right, accusing her of trying to “put voters to sleep.”
As populists try to exploit public fears regarding immigrants and security, establishment politicians have been forced to retreat from the center, drop their doublespeak and take a stand. That’s upending the political status quo in countries like Germany and Austria, where years of grand coalitions have left the mainstream parties almost indistinguishable.
Even Merkel, widely viewed as a lonely voice of reason in Europe, hasn’t been immune. Seeking to quell a backlash in her party over her open-arms refugee policy, she came out in favor of banning burqas last month. Her party base cheered the move, but still wants more.
Unnerved by a surge in support for the right-wing AfD, some members of her conservative alliance are demanding a tougher line on asylum, a repeal of Germany’s dual-citizenship law and steps to ensure, in the words of a recent declaration, that “Germany remains Germany.”
In France, former Socialist Prime Minister Manuel Valls is running for president, promising he is a “changed” man. When in office, he advocated reforming France’s labor system by doing away with the 35-hour work week. Now, he says, the Socialists have “yielded too much” to the “forces of money.”
“I’ve matured,” Valls told an interviewer this week.
The leading conservative candidate, François Fillon, is moving in the opposite direction, offering a prescription of economic liberalism — long unthinkable in France — to address the country’s woes.
What’s striking about these moves is the candidates have avoided trying to outrun the populist National Front, promising instead a return to their parties’ founding principles.
That’s because, in the past, when mainstream parties have tried to co-opt populist positions, voters stuck with the original. That was the case in Austria, for example, where both the center-right Austrian People’s Party and the Social Democrats have struggled for years to halt the rise of the right-wing Freedom Party.
Some observers are encouraged by Europe’s new political winds. For one, Europe’s citizens, whether out of fear or hope, are becoming more politically engaged.
In Germany, where a couple of years ago the most controversial issue on the political agenda was a proposed highway toll, the political atmosphere has erupted in the wake of the refugee influx and the U.S. elections.
Trump’s surprise victory caused a surge in membership applications to left-leaning parties, for example. Some 1,900 people asked to join the Social Democratic Party in November, more than twice as many as the month before. Most of these new party members were young, with 1,000 of them aged 35 or less.
It’s not just the left that’s benefiting: Across the political spectrum, parties are seeing more engagement from citizens.
“All of a sudden, issues like geopolitics are on the political agenda again,” Techau said. “With Trump, you have populism in the heart chamber of the Western world and that’s having an impact.”
The question is where this new spirit of debate leads. Some see a more worrying side.
Wolfgang Ischinger, the head of the Munich Security Conference and a former German ambassador to Washington, predicts “serious difficulty” for the transatlantic alliance in the years ahead.
“We will have a new wave of anti-Americanism in this country,” Ischinger predicted.
He noted that leading German commentators have begun to question Europe’s strong ties to America, the cornerstone of the postwar order.
“The hour has come to say goodbye to Americanism, to naïve Atlanticism,” Bernd Ulrich, a one-time aide to former German Foreign Minister and Green leader Joschka Fischer, recently wrote in the weekly Die Zeit.
Naïve or not, such sentiments suggest Europe may soon be pining for the boring politics of old.
Seven candidates for the European Parliament presidency called for EU treaties to be revised to expand the power of MEPs.
In POLITICO’s first presidential debate, the seven candidates sparred on issues ranging from austerity to Brexit but presented a united front on expanding the authority of parliamentarians.
With less than a week left in what has shaped up as the most competitive presidential election in the Parliament’s modern history, the candidates struggled to differentiate themselves in the convivial 2-hour debate.
Perhaps the most dramatic moment came when Maïa de la Baume, who covers the Parliament for POLITICO, pressed the liberal Guy Verhofstadt on his failed bid to forge an alliance with the Euroskeptic 5Star movement. “What were you thinking?” she asked.
At first, Verhofstadt took the question literally and focused on the moment Monday afternoon when his plan imploded. “I was thinking ‘shit,'” Verhofstadt said, joining his competitors in laughing at himself. “‘Damn,’ this is what I was thinking.”
Pressed for a more substantive response, Verhofstadt claimed some success in co-opting the 5Stars.
“It was, I think, an honest attempt to weaken Euroskeptic forces in the Parliament because that is the real threat for Europe for the moment, populists and Euroskeptics and maybe I succeeded,” he said. “What I was thinking was to weaken the Euroskeptic movement inside the European Parliament. They made an agreement on paper in saying that they want a common currency, which is a huge shift in Italian politics. they also conceded that we have not to destroy the European Union. We have to reform the European Union. So I thought it was a good thing.”
Verhofstadt also chastised the two main contenders for the presidency — Gianni Pittella of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats and Antonio Tajani of the European People’s Party — for “bickering to no end.”
“The EPP doesn’t want the Socialists, and the Socialists doesn’t want the EPP, how to solve that? Elect a liberal!” He added, “You have to stop this old-style unproductive battle.”
Pittella, who has refused to abide by a power-sharing agreement that called for passing the presidency to the center-right EPP this year, insisted that Tajani should not be elected because it would give his party control over all three of the EU’s main institutions, the European Commission, the European Council and the Parliament, even though the EPP only holds about 30 percent of seats in Parliament.
“We cannot accept that the same political family that has a 30 percent consensus have the presidencies of the most important institutions,” Pittella said.
Tajani repeatedly reminded the audience that he had won the esteem of colleagues, having been elected a vice president of the Parliament with more than 450 votes — a tally he noted that was far higher than that of the outgoing Parliament president, Martin Schulz.
Schulz’s unexpected decision in late November to abandon Brussels and Strasbourg and return to Berlin to run for a seat in the Bundestag caught even his closest colleagues by surprise.
His move blew apart the “Grand Coalition” that European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has relied on over the last two years. It also set the stage for a wide-open race – the first time in modern history that the Parliament presidency is not being decided in a backroom deal.
Each of the seven candidates answered “no” when asked if any such agreement had been reached.
Pittella insisted that there would be no return to a coalition with the EPP, and sought to present his Social Democrats as prepared to champion an anti-austerity agenda.
Tajani, while hardly distancing himself from the austerity policies that his party has largely supported, did hand the moderators a copy of a letter in which he declined to accept transitional allowance payments after leaving his previous post as a European commissioner. The payments could have totaled €468,000 over three years and, in his letter, Tajani said he was declining them “to show parsimony and solidarity in view of the difficult times currently faced by European citizens.”
The more than two-hour debate was conducted, with translation, in English, Italian and sign language. Tajani and Pittella are Italian, as is the radical left candidate, Eleonora Forenza, while the European Conservative and Reformist group candidate, Helga Stevens, is deaf. The other candidates on stage were Jean Lambert of the Greens/European Free Alliance and Laurenţiu Rebega from the Europe of Nations and Freedom Group.
Despite the logistical challenge, the candidates bantered easily and the language differences prompted several lighthearted moments. The audience, for instance, laughed heartily when Stevens answered a question about the future of English as an official EU language after Brexit. “Personally, I would have no problem,” she said in sign language.
Verhofstadt, who owns a vineyard in Italy, at one point joked that he was “100 percent certain” that an Italian-speaking candidate would win the presidency.
All seven candidates said they expected the U.K. would leave the EU and all said they personally supported Brussels as a single seat for the Parliament, though some noted that the decision was out of their hands. France has long opposed any suggestion of giving up Strasbourg as the official seat of Parliament.
Tajani and Pittella were also non-committal on the issue of an EU army, insisting that it was not a fair yes-no answer. Verhofstadt, Stevens and Rebega said they were in favor, while the others were opposed.
At POLITICO’s European Parliament presidential debate, we asked the seven candidates where they stood on a range of key political and administrative issues facing the Parliament, demanding specific answers.
Here’s what they told us.










There’s a guide to the candidates here and you can catch up with the debate as it happened here.
This story has been updated to correct Gianni Pittella and Antonio Tajani’s answers to the question on Polish sanctions. They both gave conditional “yes” responses.
GENEVA — Cyprus is closer to ending the 43-year division between its Greek and Turkish populations than it has been in years.
As talks at United Nations headquarters in Geneva enter their final stretch, officials here express cautious optimism that a deal can be struck. On Thursday, officials from Turkey, Greece, and the U.K., plus U.N. Secretary General António Guterres and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, will fly in to the Swiss city to lend weight to the proceedings.
“This might actually happen,” a United Nations official said.
“I really think, without overdramatizing what is happening in Geneva, that it is the very last chance to see the island [reunified],” Juncker told reporters in Malta on Wednesday.
But to reach a reunification deal, many hurdles will still have to be cleared.
Nicos Anastasiades, the Greek Cypriot leader and the country’s internationally recognized president, and Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state, have been locked in talks for more than 18 months, negotiating the biggest outstanding issues to reunification.
In Geneva, in recent days, they have even broached the one issue they had avoided so far: a system that would guarantee the unified country’s independence and security.
“The quality of that discussion was the best I’ve ever heard on that particular topic,” Espen Barth Eide, the U.N. secretary general’s special adviser on Cyprus, told reporters Thursday. “The reason is, people are actually preparing for the fact that this might actually happen, and that means you have to go from your traditional opening position to actually start looking for ways to solve it.”
Turkey, Greece and the U.K. are expected to send their foreign ministers to join Anastasiades and Akıncı on Thursday for the first-ever international conference to discuss security arrangements, and, crucially, the presence of some 30,000 Turkish troops stationed in the northern Turkish Cypriot area. Juncker and the EU’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, will also attend as observers.
Before Turkish, Greek, British and EU officials arrived, Anastasiades and Akıncı took another first-ever step in the Cyprus negotiations — exchanging maps on Wednesday night showing where each side is willing to draw the boundary between the two constituent states that would form the reunified country.
Turkish Cypriots will have to give up some of the land they have lived on since the island was divided by a U.N. buffer zone in 1974, to reflect the Greek side’s bigger population and economy and return sites of significance.
But it’s an “emotionally charged” issue for both communities, Eide warned.
“For one side, a big part of the historical trauma is that people have been living for generations with the loss of the land and property where they used to live,” he said. “At the same time, today a number of people have been living their lives [there] normally for generations.”
The map exchange took place behind closed doors, with only Anastasiades, Akıncı, Eide and cartographers who could examine whether they fulfilled the criteria the two leaders had already laid down. The difference between the two was expected to be only around 1 percent of the land. After the presentations, the maps will go into a U.N. vault to keep them from being leaked.
The only other time Cypriots voted on reunification was in 2004 – on a plan drawn up and driven by the United Nations. That agreement failed to pass because the majority of Greek Cypriots rejected it, whereas more Turkish Cypriots voted in favor.
While the talks are progressing, there is no deadline for the international conference that starts Thursday, and no expectation that a final settlement deal will be wrapped up in Geneva this week.
At a minimum, the Cypriot sides should overcome their outstanding internal issues and reach an agreement with Turkey, Greece and Britain on a new framework for ensuring the country’s security, Eide said. That system would replace a 1960 treaty giving the three countries the power to intervene if Cyprus is invaded.
After that, Anastasiades and Akıncı should be able to iron out the finer details of the deal, draw up a constitution and schedule separate but simultaneous referendums on the two sides in the coming months.
“Don’t expect that we will be flying home from Geneva to Cyprus with a comprehensive settlement in our hands,” Eide said. “But we will go home with a sense that it is coming because we’ve created a framework and what we now have is some homework to do to be able to present this as a comprehensive package.”
Slovenian government plans to toughen asylum rules have caused concern at the Council of Europe, its Secretary-General, Thorbjørn Jagland, said Wednesday.
In a letter to Slovenia’s Prime Minister Miro Cerar, Jagland wrote that although it is “understandable” that countries which have seen influx of refugees and asylum seekers “amend their approaches,”  it’s “vital” that national reforms “uphold important human rights guarantees.”
“I am concerned by amendments … proposed by your government which, if adopted, will change the conditions of entry and expulsion of migrants and asylum seekers into Slovenia, raising a number of  issues under European Convention on Human Rights,” Jagland wrote.
Slovenia’s government last week backed amendments to asylum laws that give, in exceptional circumstances, the authorities powers to turn down asylum applicants at the border and automatically expel migrants and refugees who entered the country illegal, local press agency STA reported.
This would be activated if it was deemed that illegal migration was seen as threat to public order or national security and could only last for a six-month period.
Interior Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar said the measures were”necessary and proportionate” but Amnesty International, the Red Cross and Unicef claim the changes would deny refugees and asylum seekers the right to protection afforded by international and EU law.
The race to replace Martin Schulz as head of the European Parliament has now entered its final days. Eight candidates from four European countries — four Italians, two Belgians, one Brit and one Romanian — have thrown themselves into the fray.
On January 17, MEPs will hold up to four rounds of voting to elect their president by secret ballot. If no candidate secures a majority of at least 376 votes by the end of the third ballot, the top two contestants will face off in the final round. Here are the candidates, presented in order of the size of the political group they represent (as of January 11).
European People’s Party (217 MEPs — Votewatch)
A vice-president of the European Parliament and former European commissioner, Tajani was the surprise winner of the European People’s Party primary election in December. The 63-year-old Italian won 94 votes in the first of three possible rounds, after which the other candidates withdrew.
A former Italian air force officer and journalist for public broadcaster RAI and newspaper Il Giornale, Tajani promised “a change of pace” if he won the presidency.
As the representative of the largest group in the Parliament, he has a good chance of winning. But his appeal is limited by criticisms of his time as transport commissioner, when he oversaw the introduction of emissions legislation blamed by many for the Dieselgate scandal, and his ties to former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
Progressive Alliance of Socialists & Democrats (189 MEPs — Votewatch)
The center-left Italian was reelected president of the Parliament’s second-largest party in December, and his party unanimously chose him as its presidential candidate. Pittella, 58, who has been an MEP since 1999, made clear in his candidacy speech that he would end the coalition of center-right and center-left groups that is currently in place. He also pledged to refocus economic policy away from austerity. Without a deal with the EPP, Pittella has little chance of winning. To do so, he would need to secure support from all the left-leaning parties including the Greens, GUE and the liberal ALDE.
European Conservatives and Reformists (74 MEPs — Votewatch)
A former Belgian senator and lawmaker in the Flemish parliament, Stevens joined the European Conservatives and Reformists group in the Parliament in 2014. Stevens, 48, is a former lawyer, director and president of lobby group the European Union of the Deaf. She is well-known for her work defending the rights of the disabled and currently serves as president of the Parliament’s disabilities intergroup. The ECR will vote for Stevens in the first round and is might support Tajani in the second — though it has not made its voting intentions clear.
Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (68 MEPs — Votewatch)
The outspoken 63-year-old former Belgian prime minister and leader of the liberal ALDE group officially launched his presidency bid last week. As an experienced politician who led Belgium as prime minister for nearly a decade, Verhofstadt is a charismatic figure, and his outspokenness and knowledge of the EU appeals to many MEPs, even beyond his group. But his failed attempt to strike a deal with the anti-establishment 5Star Movement has likely undermined his chances.
Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left (52 MEPs — Votewatch)
A member of Italy’s main communist party, Forenza, 40, was elected an MEP in 2014 as a candidate of The Other Europe, a left-wing political alliance which supported Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras for the European Commission presidency. Forenza’s party will vote for her in the first round and might turn to Pittella or abstain afterward.
Greens/European Free Alliance (50 MEPs — Votewatch)
The Greens wanted a female president who would favor small groups and cross-party politics. But the choice of Tajani ahead of their preferred candidate, Mairead McGuinness, in the EPP primary elections last month led the group to pick its own female candidate. The nominee is Britain’s Jean Lambert, 66, who has been a member of the Parliament since 1999. Lambert is in similar position to Forenza, as having the Greens on board in the last rounds of the election will be essential for Pittella to win the presidency.
Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (44 MEPs — Votewatch)
As the candidate of Italy’s 5Star Movement, Pedicini’s candidacy is likely to be undermined by its failed attempt to join ALDE earlier this week. It is unclear if and how the EFDD will shift its support in the later rounds. Tajani has reached out for support to Italian members of the EFDD group. Pedicini was elected in 2014 and is 46 years old.
Europe of Nations and Freedom Group (39 MEPs — Votewatch)
A former local government official in Romania, Rebega is the surprise candidate of Marine Le Pen’s Europe of Nations and Freedom group. The 40-year-old Romanian lawmaker was elected in 2014 as part of the center left, but soon switched sides. Since August 2015, he has been vice-chair of Le Pen’s far-right group.
VALLETTA — This is the last opportunity for the reunification of Cyprus, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said Wednesday, explaining why he will be going to Geneva where delicate talks on the future of the divided island are being held.
“I took a personal interest in the reunification issue of Cyprus,” he said at a press conference in Valletta for the opening of the Maltese presidency. “I really think, without overdramatizing what is happening in Geneva, that it is the very last chance to see the island [reunified].”
Nicos Anastasiades, the Greek Cypriot leader and the country’s internationally recognized president, and Mustafa Akıncı, president of the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state, have negotiated for more than 18 months in the run-up to the current talks.
On Thursday, the two leaders will be joined by foreign ministers from Greece, Turkey and the U.K., the three guarantors of the Mediterranean island after London granted it independence in 1960.
If negotiations go well, it is possible that U.K Prime Minister Theresa May will also attend alongside Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, and Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras.
Juncker, for his part, is flying to Geneva on Thursday morning. “It’s the duty of the president of the European Commission to be there,” he said. “It’s risky. But when it’s about peace, you have to take the risk.”
The complicated talks include discussions of territorial trade-offs and the presence of about 30,000 Turkish soldiers who have been on the island since 1974 when Turkey invaded after a Greek coup. Any deal on reunification is expected to be put to a referendum later this year.
Diplomats stress that reunification would provide the EU with a much sought after success story and that a peace deal on the island could also have a positive wider impact on the Middle East.
Espen Barth Eide, the Special Adviser on Cyprus for the U.N. Secretary-General, was more cautious than Juncker. “Is it the last chance? Well, that’s the kind of thing that historians will know best in 100 years, and I generally think … one should be a little bit careful,” the former Norwegian foreign minister told reporters in Geneva when asked about Juncker’s comments.
However, he added: “I do not see what one would be gaining from waiting. So, in that sense, let me [express] strong sympathy for what Mr. Juncker says without necessarily wanting to issue a statement on behalf of future historians.”
Sara Stefanini contributed to this article
Secretary of state nominee Rex Tillerson on Wednesday ducked several Russia-related questions from Republican Sen. Marco Rubio and other lawmakers, declining to say if he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin is a “war criminal” or whether he backs existing and future sanctions on Moscow.
The former ExxonMobil CEO’s relationship with Putin, whom he has long known, was a major focus of lawmakers from both parties during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Republicans in particular are now reeling from unsubstantiated reports that Russia had gathered salacious, damaging material about President-elect Donald Trump.
Rubio, a hawkish Floridian who lost to Trump in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, pressed Tillerson on Russia’s actions in bloody conflicts in Syria, Chechnya and beyond, as well as suspected Russian hacking and other interference in the U.S. election.
“Is Vladimir Putin a war criminal?” Rubio asked.
“I would not use that term,” Tillerson replied.
Referring to the Russian-backed Syrian government’s killing of civilians, Rubio at one point dismissed Tillerson’s insistence that he didn’t have the proper security clearance yet to have all the necessary information needed to draw conclusions about Russia’s actions.
And the two clashed over claims that Putin had ordered the killing of journalists and other opposition figures, with Tillerson snapping back at the senator.
“None of this is classified,” Rubio said. “These people are dead.”
“I’m not disputing these people are dead,” Tillerson said, pointing out that Rubio had asked who was responsible for their deaths.
Tillerson also declined to say whether he supported sanctions leveled against Russia by President Barack Obama’s administration over its suspected meddling in the 2016 election. Trump himself has refused to accept the intelligence community’s assessments that the Kremlin tried to turn the election in his favor.
The secretary of state nominee said he needed to examine the details of the existing sanctions as well as newly proposed ones. He said that it was important to look at all facets involved, including how the U.S. partners with the country being targeted in areas such as trade.
“I think it is important that those be dealt with on a country by country relationship,” Tillerson said.
Tillerson also claimed that ExxonMobil had not lobbied against sanctions, although public records seem to show otherwise.
“I have never lobbied against sanctions, personally,” said, who only recently left the company in order to serve as secretary of state. “To my knowledge Exxon never directly lobbied against sanctions.”
Public lobbying disclosures show that Exxon has long lobbied on sanctions. As POLITICO reported last year, Exxon officials lobbied against a bill, known as the STAND for Ukraine Act, which would have enshrined Obama’s sanctions against Russia into law — making it more difficult for Trump to overturn them.
Tillerson countered later in the hearing that Exxon didn’t specifically lobby against the sanctions, arguing that the company “participated in understanding how the sanctions are going to be constructed.”
He said he later talked to the Obama administration about the effects of the sanctions. “The characterization that ExxonMobil lobbied against the sanctions is just not accurate,” he said.
“As our former chairman said, we provided information about impact of sanctions, but did not lobby against sanctions,” Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers said in an email.
The committee has 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats, making Rubio’s vote important, although in theory Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell could take the vote directly to the floor and skip the committee vote. Senate Democrats also used the confirmation hearing for Tillerson to press him on Russia.
Ben Cardin, the ranking Democrat on the committee, told Tillerson he was “disappointed” the former ExxonMobil CEO didn’t mention suspected Russian interference in the 2016 election in his prepared remarks.
The senator also pointed out that ExxonMobil, through its business dealings with Moscow, helped put money in the Kremlin’s coffers.
“Recent news accounts indicate Russia may well have information about Mr. Trump and they can use that to compromise our presidency,” Cardin (D-Md.) said. “While I do not suggest it was your intent, it is frankly not too great of a distance from Exxon’s business partnerships to Putin’s Kremlin-controlled slush funds essential for his ‘disinformation’ campaign around the world.”
[Tillerson said he would recuse himself from matters dealing directly with ExxonMobil if confirmed as secretary of state.]
Tillerson did agree with Cardin’s statement that Putin had engaged in human rights violations. He also said he supported sending more military assets to Ukraine, in an apparent break with Trump, whose aides removed such pro-Ukraine language from the Republican Party platform during last year’s campaign.
Republican committee Chairman Bob Corker brought up Russia as well in his opening remarks, saying it “no doubt has conducted very nefarious activities here in our country.” But the Tennessee Republican implied that President Barack Obama’s reluctance to act in certain arenas on the world stage had encouraged Moscow, and others, to fill the void.
“We’ve had chaos where the United States has been withdrawing from its leadership role,” Corker (R-Tenn.) said, telling Tillerson: “You’ve got to restore our credibility.”
In an apparent allusion to Trump and the latest controversy related to him, Corker told Tillerson, “There’s no way you can speak on his behalf today. That cannot happen. What people want to know is how you are going to advise him.”
In his remarks, Tillerson said Russia needs to be held accountable when it is at odds with the United States but that an “open and frank dialogue” is necessary between the two countries. Russia, Tillerson added, poses a “danger” to the United States but “is not unpredictable in advancing its own interests.”
“It has invaded Ukraine, including the taking of Crimea, and supported Syrian forces that brutally violate the laws of war. Our NATO allies are right to be alarmed at a resurgent Russia,” Tillerson said, adding, in a subtle criticism of Obama: “It was in the absence of American leadership that this door was left open and unintended signals were sent.”
Tillerson also said the United States should work with Russia to fight terrorism.
The secretary of state pick’s oil company background has also alarmed climate change activists.
He said in Wednesday’s hearing that the U.S. must continue to engage in international discussions on the threat of climate change, but he declined to specifically endorse the Paris climate change agreement, which the United States and nearly 200 other nations reached in 2015 after decades of fraught negotiations.
“I think it’s important that the United States retains its seat at the table for conversations around how to address the threats of climate change, which do require a global response,” Tillerson said. “No one country is going to solve this alone.”
Republicans have long argued against U.S. efforts to tackle climate change, noting that the problem will only be addressed with the cooperation of major emitters like China and India. Trump promised during the presidential campaign to “cancel” the Paris deal, but he suggested in a November interview with The New York Times that he has “an open mind” about international climate issues.
Andrew Restuccia contributed to this report.
If Italian media is to be believed, the anti-establishment Beppe Grillo met his Waterloo when he failed to join forces with the liberal establishment.
Grillo wanted his 5Star Movement MEPs to switch alliance from Nigel Farage’s Euroskeptic Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy group to Guy Verhofstadt’s Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE).
But despite the public humiliation — the 5Stars were forced to crawl back to Farage and his group after the initiative was voted down by the liberals — don’t expect members of the 5Stars to ask for their leader’s head.
“It’s not a conceivable scenario,” said a 5Star official on condition of anonymity. “It’s not even thinkable.”
The source conceded that Grillo has been criticized within the group of MEPs. But he pointed to the fact that more than 75 percent of the about 40,000 party members (out of 130,000) who took part in an online poll on Sunday backed Grillo’s proposed deal with ALDE.
“I don’t understand why Grillo would be held responsible” for the failure, said Luca Frusone, a 5Star MP. “We are not the ones who didn’t respect the deal.”
Not everyone was happy, however. A spokesperson for the Green group in the Parliament said one 5Star MEP, Marco Affronte, had joined the Greens and they were in talks with others.
The ALDE move was thwarted by Liberals who were not ready to accept the anti-establishment group among their ranks. “There is insufficient common ground to proceed with the request of the 5 Star Movement to join the ALDE Group. There remain fundamental differences on key European issues,” wrote Verholfstadt, who was believed to have helped engineer the move to boost his own chances in elections for president of the Parliament.
For the 5Stars, the upside was obvious. Had the deal succeeded and Verhofstadt been elected next week, the 5Stars could have asked to take the leadership of the entire group since they would have been the largest delegation, which would have strongly increased their visibility.
Grillo, a comedian and the founder of the 5Stars, was challenged for the leadership in the fall but has now regained control and few observers believe that the ALDE debacle will change that.
Not even Carlo Sibilia, a 5Star lawmaker in Italy who publicly opposed the deal, called into question Grillo’s continued leadership in the wake of the failure.
But he did make his opinion clear in a post on Facebook, writing that the movement “needs to be anti-establishment and not trying to get into the establishment.” Doing so, he wrote, be “politically incoherent, on top of being stupid.”
Maïa de La Baume contributed to this article
LONDON — U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May is on the defensive after the head of England’s National Health Service accused her government Wednesday of promising more money for the country’s health care system than it requested.
Simon Stevens flatly contradicted claims made by May barely 72 hours earlier, saying that it would be “stretching it” to say the service got more funding than it had proposed.
His remarks came in response to comments made by May. In an interview on Sunday, she said the government was pumping more money into the NHS than the health service demanded.
The political debate over NHS funding is potentially toxic for May, having played a key part in the EU referendum campaign amid claims from leading Leave supporters, including Boris Johnson, that Britain’s budget contributions to Brussels could be redirected to the health service in the event of a vote to leave. The claim that Britain sends £350 million a week on the EU was hotly disputed but proved a key message for the Leave campaign.
Following the vote, the government has refused to increase NHS spending. However, it emerged this week that Johnson — now foreign secretary — planned an immediate £100 million per week increase in the NHS budget if he became prime minister, according to an account of the referendum campaign published by the Vote Leave chief Dominic Cummings.
In a series of outspoken remarks, Stevens admitted the health service was deteriorating in parts, claimed it was underfunding by as much as 30 percent compared to similar countries and repeated calls for social care to receive more funding to relieve pressure on doctors’ surgeries and accident and emergency wards.
Stevens said the health service faced “clearly very substantial pressures” but he denied the government has provided more funding that he had said was needed.
“Like every part of the public service we got less than we asked for in that [spending review] process. I think it would be stretching it to say that it got more than it asked for,” he said.
Meg Hillier, chair of the committee, said the government repeatedly says the NHS is getting more money than it requested.
Stevens disagreed.
“It’s right that by 2020, NHS England will be getting an extra £10 billion over the course of six years. I don’t think that’s the same as saying we’re getting more than we asked for in five years,” he said, noting that the funding plans were contained in the Five Year Forward View not Six Year Forward View.
The comments are a swipe at May’s government and Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt, who have repeatedly claimed NHS England got £10 billion when they asked for £8 billion.
In the Sunday interview on Sky, May repeated that claim.
“We asked the NHS to set out what it needed over the next five years in terms of the plans for its future and funding it would need,” she said. “They did that, we gave them that funding. In fact we gave them more funding that they required so funding is now at record levels for the NHS.”
May agreed to meet with cross-party members of parliament who earlier Wednesday had called for a new group to urgently review the long-term funding needs for health and social care services.
Labour’s shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said Stevens’ intervention “blows apart” May’s claim that the government is providing enough funding. “Theresa May is in total denial about the crisis the Tories have created in the NHS,” he said. “The warnings from professionals and patients have flooded in, but Theresa May has just buried her head in the sand.”
“Enough is enough,” Ashworth said. “Theresa May needs to come out of her bunker, admit she’s got it wrong and guarantee the funding the NHS needs. No. 10 should listen to the experts like Simon Stevens and not be briefing against him.”
The comments come on top of a damning assessment by the Red Cross who last week described a “humanitarian crisis” in emergency care — a description the government does not accept.
Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, a trade organization that represents service providers, earlier told MPs that he too believed there was a funding gap.
“No we don’t believe that the NHS has all the money that it needs to deliver what it’s being asked to deliver,” he said, “We think there is a gap and we need a credible and robust plan to fill that gap.”
He said he worried that if the pressures on the system did not ease then people would lose confidence in the NHS. “My nervousness is that public confidence really seriously comes into question.”
Stevens also openly contradicted Chris Wormald, the top civil servant at the Department of Health, when he argued that NHS spending was in line with the OECD average. The NHS England chief pointed out the OECD includes countries like Mexico, adding that when you compare England with advanced countries, health spending is lower.
“Per capita we are spending 30 percent less per person as the Germans. That is a choice,” he said adding that the funding crisis was set to deteriorate. “Real terms per person spending on the health service is going to go down.”
The NHS has had record patient numbers this winter and waiting times have been blamed for two deaths of patients in need of urgent care. Demand is rising by 2.5 percent to 3 percent, Stevens said, because of demographic changes and rising life expectancy.
“It’s a phenomenon that’s not new; I think it’s intensifying,” he said, adding that with more NHS transformations in the pipeline, “there are some very genuine choices to be made across the NHS and there’s a circle to be squared.”
In one of its final moves to keep Russia at bay and secure America from digital intruders, the Obama administration on Thursday slapped Moscow with a round of sanctions over its alleged election-season hacks.
The punishments hit several Russian individuals and entities, including the country’s primary security service, known as the FSB, and its main intelligence directorate, the GRU.
The government is also booting 35 Russian intelligence operatives from the United States, and sanctioning top intelligence officers within the GRU.
“These actions follow repeated private and public warnings that we have issued to the Russian government, and are a necessary and appropriate response to efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior,” President Barack Obama said in a statement.
The move puts an end to months of speculation over how the White House would strike back against what it said was a widespread digital campaign orchestrated by senior Kremlin officials in an attempt to disrupt the recent U.S. election. More recently, intelligence officials have reportedly concluded that Moscow was actually hoping to tilt the election in favor of Donald Trump with its hacking.
On Thursday, the Department of Homeland Security and FBI published a declassified report about the cyber operations at Russian intelligence agencies, in an attempt to provide much sought-after specifics about Moscow’s meddling and to help the private sector root out other Russian infiltrations.
Although the report does not explain the hackers’ motives, it provides some much sought-after specifics about Moscow’s alleged meddling, and is intended to help the private sector root out other Russian infiltrations. The findings confirm many details about the DNC intrusion that private security researchers published during the campaign.
Obama had been under fire for his delayed retaliation from both congressional Democrats and a cadre of hawkish Republicans. Many had also pushed the outgoing commander in chief to act before handing over the reins to President-elect Donald Trump, who has dismissed the government’s allegations that Russian is responsible for any of the election hacks.
“It’s time for our country to move on to bigger and better things,” Trump said in a vague Thursday night statement. “Nevertheless, in the interest of our country and its great people, I will meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be updated on the facts of this situation.”
The punishment also marks another post-Cold War low point in the increasingly frigid U.S.-Russia relationship, which has frayed over the Syrian civil war, failed joint operations against the Islamic State and Russia’s military aggression in Ukraine, in addition to the alleged election-season hacks.
The administration in October blamed the Kremlin for the digital break-in at the Democratic National Committee, and later said Russia was also behind the the breach of Hillary Clinton campaign Chairman John Podesta’s personal email account.
The cyberattacks roiled the Democratic Party on the eve of its nominating convention, exposing embarrassing internal emails and causing the resignation of former DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz. Later, the daily leak of Podesta’s emails on WikiLeaks fueled a series of negative headlines about Clinton’s campaign.
But the White House’s first official public retaliation didn’t come until Thursday.
In addition to the economic sanctions and ejections of Russian intelligence operatives, Obama said the State Department will shut two Russian compounds in Maryland and New York that are “used by Russian personnel for intelligence-related purposes.” A senior administration official told reporters in a Thursday conference call that the compounds would bar Russian personnel effective Friday at noon, but provided few details about the nature of the facilities.
The facility in Maryland appears to be one near Centreville. It has been used as a vacation spot for Russian diplomats dating back to the Soviet Union purchase of the compound in the 1970s, said Boris Zilberman, a Russia expert at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.
Another senior administration official added that the diplomatic steps taken Thursday were a response to serial harassment of U.S. officials in Russia, culminating in a summer incident where a Russian police officer attacked an American diplomat.
The outgoing president hinted that the government may also conduct discreet responses.
“These actions are not the sum total of our response to Russia’s aggressive activities,” Obama said. “We will continue to take a variety of actions at a time and place of our choosing, some of which will not be publicized.”
Russia has consistently denied any role in the election-season hacks and earlier in the week vowed to fight back against any U.S. punishment.
“Frankly speaking, we are tired of lies about Russian hackers that continue to be spread in the United States from the very top,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in a Wednesday statement.
A spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday said Moscow will contemplate retaliatory measures in response to the White House’s actions, according to The Associated Press.
As a potential first step, Russian authorities ordered the closing the American School of Moscow, CNN reported.
Thursday’s sanctions add to the growing list of economic penalties the U.S. has levied against Moscow. Over the past two years, Washington has sanctioned Russia over the country’s annexation of Crimea.
With the latest round of Russian penalties, the Obama administration has now formally punished all four of its main digital adversaries for hacking the U.S.
The administration in 2014 indicted five Chinese military hackers and later sanctioned North Korea for the digital hijacking of Sony Pictures Entertainment’s computer system. And earlier this year, the Justice Department charged Iranian-backed hackers for infiltrating a U.S. dam.
But the most recent move represents the first time Obama has deployed an authority he created via executive order in April 2015.
The administration issued the order a few months after the bruising cyberattack on Sony. In announcing the new powers, Obama declared the rising tide of cyberattacks — which had also felled major retailers like Home Depot and Target, and large banks such as JPMorgan Chase — a “national emergency.”
The order gave the Treasury Department power to freeze the assets of any foreigners responsible for “cyber-enabled activities” that constitute “a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United States.”
Leading up to Thursday’s announcement, White House officials had been debating whether the executive order covered the alleged Russian election hacking, according to the Washington Post.
The National Security Council reportedly was worried that the cyber meddling during the election did not fit under the terms of the executive order, which was established to punish hackers that damaged America’s critical infrastructure or pilfered U.S. trade secrets.
On Thursday, the White House announced it had expanded the executive order. The government can now use the tool to punish people that “tamper with, alter, or cause a misappropriation of information with the purpose or effect of interfering with or undermining election processes or institutions.”
It was under this clause that the White House sanctioned the two major Russian intelligence services — the GRU and FSB — and four GRU officers. It also levied penalties on three companies that the White House says provided “material support” to the GRU’s cyber operations.
Although this is the first time the Obama administration has used the cyber sanctions, officials threatened to use the tool against China in 2015 over what the White House said was a government-orchestrated program to steal U.S. trade secrets and funnel the information to Chinese firms.
Officials believe the threat helped bring Beijing officials to the negotiating table, where the two sides struck a landmark deal to eradicate digital corporate theft.
According to administration officials and security researchers, Chinese cyber theft has dropped since then, although it has not ceased altogether, and some experts believe Beijing is merely shifting its strategy.
But it was suspected Russian hackers who continuously stole the show during the 2016 election.
The June 14 revelation that the DNC had been hacked kicked off five months of cyber intrusions that culminated with Trump’s surprise victory on Election Day.
According to researchers and government officials, Russia’s victims eventually grew to include state voter registration systems, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, former Secretary of State Colin Powell, a ex-White House advance staffer, a State Department protocol employee and a Clinton campaign volunteer.
The hackers even hit a few Republican operatives and may have breached the Republican National Committee, a charge RNC officials deny.
The WikiLeaks release of Podesta’s personal emails — which began on the same day that the government formally blamed Russia for the hacks — proved particularly disruptive, with ripple effects beyond the election itself.
Some of the emails included embarrassing excerpts from Clinton’s private speeches to Wall Street firms. Others sparked a conspiracy theory that led to a gunman opening fire at a Washington, D.C., pizza restaurant.
Hacked documents, including confidential DNC and DCCC research memos, also appeared on the self-styled whistleblower website DC Leaks and the blog of a hacker persona who went by “Guccifer 2.0.” Researchers believe these digital operations were fronts for Russian intelligence agencies to launder the hacked materials.
In his final months in office, Obama has been building a case against Russia for such digital malfeasance.
In addition to officially blaming Moscow for the prominent election hacks, and then retaliating on Thursday, the president has also ordered the intelligence community to prepare a thorough report on attempts to sabotage recent presidential elections with cyberattacks. The report, which Obama will receive before leaving office, is expected to include an analysis of the 2008 and 2012 elections, but will almost certainly focus on this year’s events.
Although the new sanctions snagged headlines, experts say they’re largely symbolic.
Zilberman said the economic penalties on Russia are “too little, too late,” and unlikely to have any substantial impact on Russia’s finances.
“These folks are not traveling to the United States,” he said of the names the administration designated. “They do not have economic interests or bank accounts.”
But the diplomatic maneuvering — combined with the joint DHS-FBI report — could make a difference, Zilberman said.
“The bigger news is the expulsion of the 35 diplomats and the declassification of the report,” he said. “The closing of these spying facilities could carry an awful lot of weight.”
Plus, even symbolic sanctions can serve a purpose, said Richard Nephew, a former principal deputy coordinator for sanctions policy at the Department of State for two years under Obama.
Economic damage “wasn’t really the point,” said Nephew, now a senior research scholar at Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy. “This was intended to be a clear signal that, ‘We know who you are, Russian hackers.'”
Several members of Congress are already using Thursday’s actions as a launching pad for further action.
Democrats immediately lauded Obama’s move, with some calling for Congress to follow in his footsteps.
The White House’s retaliation is not “sufficient,” said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.), the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s top Democrat.
“It is imperative the legislative branch now pick up the ball and move it forward,” he added in a statement. “Congressional sanctions can complement and strengthen these new executive sanctions.”
Several hawkish Republicans, including Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain (Ariz.) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-.S.C.), echoed Cardin’s sentiment.
“We intend to lead the effort in the new Congress to impose stronger sanctions on Russia,” the duo said in a statement.
While there is bipartisan consensus that Congress must examine Russian election hacking, lawmakers are split over how to proceed. Democrats have joined with a small nucleus of Republicans — including McCain and Graham — to push for a select committee to study the issue.
But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan insist the existing committees — such as the Senate and House Intelligence panels — can handle the probe.
Ryan on Thursday described the White House’s action “overdue,” and “an appropriate way to end eight years of failed policy with Russia.”
Tim Starks contributed to this report.
ROME — Italy’s leaders on Thursday lashed out at the European Central Bank for effectively raising the price of a bank rescue, even as Rome moved ahead with plans for it.
The Italian government is now expected to provide roughly €6.7 billion to prop up Monte dei Paschi di Siena, officials at the finance ministry told POLITICO.
Italy’s third-largest lender and the world’s oldest bank faces a capital shortfall of €8.8 billion, which the ECB has raised from €5 billion, MPS announced on Monday. Italy last week approved the use of up to €20 billion in public money to help stabilize the country’s ailing banking sector.
Following the ECB upward readjustment, the government plans to use more taxpayer money than initially expected to cover the bulk of MPS’s capital needs, officials said. Besides the €6.7 billion from the state, the remaining €2.1 billion is expected to come from institutional investors that hold MPS’ subordinated debt, which will be converted into shares — as set out in the EU’s new rules for handling bank crises.
Retail savers who have been mis-sold MPS’s subordinate debt, on the other hand, would get to trade their investments in for senior debt, sparing them from heavy losses.
The plan is still on its early stages, as the Italian authorities plan to prop up MPS though a precautionary recapitalization following the lender’s inability to raise €5 billion from private investors last week.
European Commission sources insist that any potential state intervention would need to get full approval from Brussels. EU state aid rules will be fully applied in the case of MPS, an EU official said. Winning approval for that will likely take two to three months, the official added.
The MPS rescue is expected to be part of an emergency decree to prop up Italy’s struggling banks — a process that will be “long and complicated,” Prime Minister Gentiloni said at his end of the year press conference on Thursday.
“Putting this into practice will be long and complicated, we aren’t hiding that, but it is a strategic and fundamental decision,” he added.
The ECB’s recalculation drew both the prime minister’s and Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan’s ire.
“It would have been useful, if not kind, to have a bit more information from the ECB about the criteria that led to this assessment,” Padoan said in an interview with Il Sole 24 Or published Thursday, calling the adjustment “the outcome of a very rigid attitude.”
Gentiloni, who took the premiership earlier this month, described the ECB’s tally as “abrupt.”
In its statement earlier this week, MPS said the ECB had concluded that the bank’s liquidity position had deteriorated rapidly between November 30 and December 21. During that time, MPS’ net liquidity dropped from €12.1 billion to €7.7 billion.
The European Central Bank had imposed the recapitalization target on MPS earlier this year, after the bank failed a stress test in July.
The Italian government has fewer options at its disposal than it would have had not long ago. Between 2008 and 2014, the Commission allowed EU countries to use almost €2 trillion in public funds to rescue their financial industries. But new EU banking rules now make it illegal for governments to use taxpayer money to bail out a bank.
BERLIN — German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel has secured the public backing of an influential, moderate grouping within his Social Democrats (SPD) party in his bid to run for chancellor in next year’s election.
“Sigmar Gabriel is the best candidate, who will become a great chancellor,” Johannes Kahrs, a German MP and one of the spokespeople of the so-called Seeheimer Kreis (“Seeheim Circle”) — one of three major groups within the SPD — told POLITICO on Thursday.
“I’ve been saying this for two years, speaking from conviction,” he added.
Germany will elect a new parliament in September 2017, and the newly elected parliament will then appoint the chancellor. Last November, German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced she would run again for her conservative Christian Democrats.
Discussions over who should run against her have rattled the SPD, Germany’s second-largest party, for months.
While Gabriel, as party chief, would be entitled to run for office, many of his party have been critical of his candidacy due to his low popularity rankings, with officials still describing it as “kamikaze” last summer.
Since then, however, Gabriel managed to boost his standing, scoring various political wins such as pushing current SPD Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier to become German Federal President next year, against Merkel’s will.
Simultaneously, an increasing number of SPD officials have come forward to back Gabriel’s candidacy.
The SPD will officially announce their candidate at a party summit in late January. Before that, an inner circle of SPD top officials will meet on January 10, 2017, for a closed-door meeting to decide on who to nominate, according to a report in Tagesspiegel newspaper.
Other names in the running are European Parliament President Martin Schulz or Olaf Scholz, state premier in the city of Hamburg, which counts as one of Germany’s 16 federal states.
Gabriel has led the SPD longer than anyone except Willy Brandt, but has never run for chancellor. In the past two electoral cycles, he made way for Frank-Walter Steinmeier, now foreign minister, and Peer Steinbrück, a former finance minister who has since left politics, both of whom were defeated by Angela Merkel.
Italy’s No vote to broad constitutional reforms and the rise of the populist 5Star Movement reflect the effects of a prolonged economic crisis and “progressive alienation” for many, according to Romano Prodi, former Italian prime minister and European Commission president.
Italy’s 5Star Movement, led by former comedian Beppe Grillo, has “undoubtedly” strengthened in recent years, like populist movements all around the Western world, Prodi said in an interview with the newspaper Corriere della Sera Wednesday night.
But the need to stop them should not justify changes to electoral law, he added.
“When you hear people say that it’s necessary to pass an electoral law because everyone is worried [the existing law] favors Grillo, it means that his movement will go ahead and that the instruments used so far to stop him turned out to be inadequate,” Prodi said.
“Electoral laws have to be forever, or at least for a long period. My experience tells me that approving them based on short-term interests usually ends up backfiring on whoever does it.”
Italians voted against constitutional reforms earlier this month, in a move widely seen as a rejection of the center-left Democratic Party Prime Minister Matteo Renzi rather than the legislative changes. Renzi quickly resigned, and was replaced by his party’s foreign minister, Paolo Gentiloni.
The 5Star Movement’s rise to become a viable candidate for governing Italy mirrors the growing popularity of Marine Le Pen’s National Front in France, as well as Donald Trump in the U.S., Prodi said.
“I would say that it was Donald Trump and the United States that followed Europe, not vice versa,” Prodi added. But the starting point was the same — problems in the way governments and politicians approached the economic crisis and growing disparities in income.
“Unfortunately, the responses almost always give precedence to electoral optics and short-term measures. This gave breath to populist movements.”
Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, Turkey’s foreign affairs minister, told local media that Ankara and Moscow now intend to implement a truce between Syria’s warring factions before the new year, Reuters reported Thursday.
Turkey said on Wednesday the countries had agreed on a plan for a ceasefire that should have gone into effect at midnight, according to the state-run Andalou news agency.
Çavuşoğlu said Turkey and Russia had drafted the ceasefire agreement and would guarantee the truce. He added Ankara would not negotiate directly with Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad. He did not provide further details about the agreement.
The Scottish National Party has called on Prime Minister Theresa May to take the three million EU citizens living in the U.K. “out of limbo” and guarantee they can stay in Britain after Brexit, the Herald reported Thursday.
“The uncertainty and damaging rhetoric we have seen from the U.K. government is driving away the top talent we need and it is forcing families to reconsider their future here,” Stephen Gethins, the SNP’s Europe spokesman, said in a letter to May.
“The U.K. government must finally end its disgraceful treatment of EU nationals and give them the reassurance that they will be able to continue living and working in Scotland and elsewhere in the U.K.,” he wrote.
Gethins said uncertainty was harming the British economy.
May has previously said she wanted to allow EU nationals living in Britain before the Brexit vote to be able to remain in the country, as long as the EU affords British citizens living in the bloc the same privilege.
Voters around the EU are dissatisfied with the direction their countries are heading in but largely support remaining in the EU, according to a WIN/Gallup International poll published Thursday, Reuters reported.
Some 89 percent of Greeks, 82 percent of French, 79 percent of Italians and 62 percent of Germans believe their country is headed in the wrong direction, the poll found.
Overall, 36 percent of those surveyed supported leaving the EU, slightly up from 33 percent in the last poll. The number of Germans, French and Belgians who support quitting has dropped. Finland and Greece recorded spikes in those wishing to leave the bloc, up to 40 percent from 29 percent and 46 percent from 38 percent respectfully.
While 60 percent of respondents overall said they would like to have fewer migrants and refugees, in Germany that number was 64 percent, in Greece 86 percent and in Italy 75 percent.
WIN/Gallup International polled 14,969 people in 15 European countries between November 25 and December 7, before the Christmas market attack in Berlin.
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday evening urged congressional lawmakers to move past the reported Russian interference in the 2016 presidential race while also doubling down on his defense of Israel.
Asked about Senator Lindsey Graham’s pledge to pursue sanctions against Russia and its leader, Vladimir Putin, over repeated cybersecurity breaches during the campaign, Trump stressed the need to move forward.
“I think we ought to get on with our lives,” the president-elect said during an impromptu exchange with reporters at his Mar-a-Lago resort, with boxing luminary Don King standing next to Trump as he answered questions.
“I think computers have complicated our lives very greatly. The whole age of computer has made it where nobody knows exactly what is going on.”
Trump said he has yet to discuss the sanctions with senators but that he “certainly will be over a period of time.”
Of speaking with Graham, Trump remarked: “Haven’t spoken to him — as you know he ran against me.”
The president-elect also addressed his recent pledge to shift American foreign policy toward Israel following the Obama administration’s decision to allow a United Nations resolution rebuking Israeli settlements in the West Bank to pass.
“If you look at what’s happened, they are up for 20 reprimands, and other nations that are horrible places, horrible places that treat people horribly, haven’t even been reprimanded,” Trump said. “So there is something going on, and I think it is very unfair to Israel.”
Trump also shifted to a more conciliatory tone on President Barack Obama, praising the presidential transition process he’d previously scorned as going along “very, very smoothly.”
Trump told reporters he had recently shared a “very nice call” with Obama that “covered a lot of territory.”
“Our staffs are getting along very well,” the president-elect said. “And I’m getting along very well with him, other than a couple of statements that I responded to and we talked about it and smiled about it.”
Trump also fired back against questions about potential conflicts of interest over his sprawling business empire, faulting the media for turning it into an issue.
“It is not a big deal,” he said. “You people are making that a big deal, the business.”
Trump touted his empire as a “great business” and claimed the conflicts are a non-issue since “they all knew I had a big business all over the place” prior to the election.
The president-elect, who earlier this month canceled a planned Dec. 15 news conference to address the conflicts, said it will now be happening “sometime in early January.”
LONDON — Brexit may finally have turned Britain pro-European.
Once divorce proceedings with Brussels are out of the way, say an increasing number of British MPs, European diplomats and foreign policy analysts, the U.K. can rebuild ties with its European neighbors — increasingly important political and ideological allies in the age of Trump — from more solid foundations. Unlike before, the new alliance will not be infected from the start.
Far from being the cure for Britain’s Euro-hostility, membership of the continent’s grandest project became the “poison” at the heart of the relationship, infecting everything it touched.
“The gradual divergence of our economic interests from the euro currency countries would have continued to have been the poison in our relationship with our partners in the EU,” said Crispin Blunt, the Conservative chairman of the House of Commons foreign affairs select committee.
“Once we’re outside the EU, this poison drains away and our relationship becomes a positive one with shared mutual interests — the success of the 27 as a union becomes a positive interest for the United Kingdom, alongside all our bilateral country-to-country relations.”
After 50 years of growing Euroskepticism, June’s referendum may prove the shock Britain needed to begin making the rational case for engaging with Europe, according to the senior figures in U.K. and European foreign policy circles.
In the foreign office and across Whitehall, an uncomfortable reality is dawning — the U.K. is leaving Europe at a time when many in Westminster have never felt more European.
Britain’s essential Europeanism has only been further emphasized by the election of Donald Trump in the United States, whose emerging world view suddenly makes America feel a very long way from Britain — and from most European countries.
From free trade to gay rights, nuclear proliferation, Russian expansionism and global warming (and almost everything in between), Theresa May has more in common with most of her European partners than she does with the incoming U.S. president.
The tectonic plates of global politics are juddering with such force, few in Westminster feel confident enough to predict where the U.K. will land after Brexit. Divorce could easily turn bitter, souring the relationship for years to come. There is particular concern over the multi-billion Brexit break-up bill which could be demanded from Brussels.
Yet there are growing murmurings that a new special relationship may emerge from the Brexit earthquake — one, counter-intuitively, between the U.K. and Europe rather than with the States.
In telephone calls with senior figures in Trump’s team, U.K. Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has pushed his department’s traditional script on the U.K.-U.S. special relationship and underlined the threat to the West from Moscow.
Responses from Vice President-elect Mike Pence and Trump ally Rudy Giuliani have been reassuring, senior government aides said, but there is a private acknowledgement that London has been left in a holding pattern, watching Twitter for clues as to what the most unpredictable president in recent American history will do once in the Oval Office. It’s not a position they have ever found themselves in with Berlin or Paris.
Jonathan Eyal, associate director at the respected London-based foreign affairs think tank RUSI, said a post-Brexit special relationship between Britain and the rest of the EU was “what a lot of the Brexiteers have failed to envisage.”
“A lot of what poisoned the relationship has gone,” Eyal said, pointing to rows about European defence cooperation and wider constitutional questions of sovereignty that have bedevilled debate about the EU in Britain. “Leaving the European Union will allow Britain to play a more positive and constructive role in forging European security structures,” he said.
After all, Eyal said, there is nothing that threatens U.K. security more than a chaotic continent on its doorstep. Britain has skin in the game, whether it likes it or not.
Eyal said there were two obstacles to a new special relationship emerging — lasting European hostility to the Brexit vote and “the temptation by some politicians in London to play divide and rule” in Europe. However, he added: “Once the psychological scars of 40 years of EU membership are out of the way, the road is clear for a very productive relationship between Britain and the European Union — as long as both sides act on the basis of reason rather than emotions.”
Europe in return, may look to London as a more stable and understanding military and diplomatic partner than the erratic administration in Washington, which shows signs of turning its back on the Continent by turning cold on free trade, environmental agreements and defense commitments.
European diplomats were more skeptical, insisting that diplomatic relations between the U.K. and many EU member states may take some time to recover following exit negotiations and even if they do, it will be hard to manufacture the closeness that comes with membership.
“It might be a better relationship, but it will be more distant,” one senior diplomat for a European Union member state said. “The cooperation within the European Union framework is very, very close.”
The diplomat warned that this was new territory for both sides. “This will be the first time in 60 years that the British will have to think about its relationship with Europe from outside. Equally, the EU has never had a big European country outside and not trying to get in.”
On a bilateral level, however, there is no sign of let up in the growing ties between London and Paris and Berlin. Quietly but steadily the U.K. and France are integrating militarily following the 2010 Lancaster House Treaty, which forged closer ties on defense and nuclear issues. While British tabloids fumed at the prospect of an EU Army, the country’s troops were being placed, officially, under the command of French officers.
French officials in London and Paris privately confide that the megaphone Euroskepticism on show during the Brexit debate went hand in hand with “incredibly smooth” and increasingly tight bilateral relations, as if those were two different and separate worlds. In private the French remain extremely confident that nothing will change to the military alliance struck between London and Paris.
Anglo-German relations are also developing smoothly. In the U.K. government’s 2015’s Strategic Defence and Security Review, Germany was promoted into the second tier of military and intelligence allies, alongside France, just one tier down from the the U.S.
In the topsy-turvy world of 21st century politics, there is an emerging body of thought that it may have taken an historic break from the Continent for Britain to discover its European roots.
The members of the European Parliament are a curious lot.
This year, they submitted 9,238 written questions to the European Commission, the EU’s executive body and “guardian of the Treaties,” which is obliged to respond within six weeks — no matter how fanciful the subject.
Can questions be a way to make a point?
We’ll let you judge from the queries we found in the digital archives.
“Does the Commission have any plans to encourage the use of insects for food among the people of Europe?” So asks Mireille D’Ornano, a political bedfellow of the National Front’s Marine Le Pen, pointing out that “the nutritional value of insects is similar to that of meat products” and that the environmental impact of “raising insects for human food is lower in terms of greenhouse gas emissions” — a double win.
Unfortunately eating bugs “goes against Europeans’ eating habits,” D’Ornano notes. But her National Front colleague, Jean-François Jalkh, may have inadvertently found a solution.
He is concerned about the cost implications of “insect invasions” caused by globalization, specifically of the Formosan termite. There’s also been an outbreak of the brown marmorated stink bug in Italy, which is causing Lorenzo Fontana, a Lega Nord MEP, a lot of concern.
Perhaps the solution to the critter crises is simply to eat them.
Will the Commission “encourage people to set up snail farms?” That’s the question from Italian Lega Nord MEP Angelo Ciocca who has identified a potential money-earner for struggling farmers, involving the latest beauty fad to hit Europe from southeast Asia: slathering snail slime on your face. “And, what is more,” Ciocca notes, “farmed snails are of a higher quality than wild snails.”
Something gory has been going on at Milan Malpensa International Airport. According to Mario Borghezio, another Lega Nord MEP, “copious amounts of blood” have been leaking from passengers’ luggage in the holds of planes.
Thankfully, the blood doesn’t originate from poorly-caged pet dogs. Rather, the issue seems to be defrosting “meat of lambs and other animals” that’s been packed illegally by travelers.
Borghezio wants to know what the Commission is doing to stop this bloody business and “the ensuing inconvenience caused to the airlines, workers and travellers.”
Hungarian Socialist MEP István Ujhelyi has spent much of the year asking the Commission what it’s doing about the hardship faced by traveling circuses. He noted in one of five questions submitted on the subject that circuses suffer “a serious disadvantage” because “there is no uniform system of [circus] regulations in all the Member States.”
A circus that has just performed in France, for example, in another country has to deal with “a different, often costly set of requirements for setting up the camp, parking the wagons, and adhering to the programme.” He also calls for the introduction of a “Big Top Label” which would be “a quality label serving as a guarantee that animal rights and a high standard of circus artistry are being upheld.”
“What can I as an MEP do to launch and promote this procedure?” asked Ujhelyi.
It’s a question that philosophers have pondered for centuries: How do we describe time? Obviously, the EU has an answer. “Where a period, expressed in days, weeks, months or years, is to be calculated from the moment at which an event occurs or an action takes place, the day during which that event occurs or that action takes place shall not be considered as falling within the period in question,” says Regulation 1182/71.
But Independent Irish MEP Luke Ming Flanagan points out in a question that Ireland has a different understanding of the nature of time, arguing that the EU definition amounts to a denial of Irish citizens’ rights. “When can we expect urgent action to remedy these denials of rights to Irish citizens?” he demands.
The Commission should allow finches to be captured by Catalans who “train them to sing and take part in competitions run by local songbird societies,” according to Catalan Socialist MEP Javi López. He was angry that the Catalan government had banned the practice, seemingly in response to pressure from the EU. He asked: “What future does the Commission foresee for the tradition of finch-singing competitions?”
Germany is being invaded by beavers, according to Albert Deß, a Bavarian MEP. The mischief-makers “eat crops, such as maize and sugar beet, or use them to build their dams with… Sometimes the result is falling trees or damage to roads, power lines or buildings.” His suggested solution? Remove the protections the beasts have enjoyed for decades and let them be hunted.
Meanwhile, in Saxony-Anhalt, North American raccoons are busy colonizing the area. Sven Schulze, another German MEP, asked the Commission how many there are in his state. The Commission didn’t know the specific number but did confirm raccoons are now classified as “invasive aliens.”
National Front MEP Mireille D’Ornano (she of the edible insects) also wants to know what the Commission is doing about the “pandemic” of physical inactivity currently sweeping across the continent. “It is possible to eliminate the increased risk of death associated with being seated for eight hours per day by doing at least one hour of exercise each day,” she noted, asking the Commission if it “[intended] to introduce measures aimed at ending this pandemic?”
Children today are reportedly the fattest generation on record, and MEPs want to know what the Commission is doing about it. Theodoros Zagorakis, a center-right MEP and former professional footballer from Greece, thinks the answer is to dedicate more school time to sports. “These children and young people are usually overweight, lack coordination and physical abilities, have low self-esteem, and participate little in physical activity,” the MEP claimed. He asked the Commission to provide information about “the minimum number of PE teaching hours per week recommended in the national education systems of Member States at each education level.”
An MEP is worried that the popular dating app Tinder might be watching you. Belgian Socialist MEP Marc Tarabella asked the Commission to investigate alleged “violations of privacy.” Tarabella wrote that Tinder is handling user data “as it sees fit,” sharing it with “anybody” and even altering it. Swipe left.
Renate Sommer, a German EPP MEP, clearly isn’t a fan of like fake meat. “The market for vegetarian and vegan food continues to grow,” she writes. “However, more and more of such food is offered as imitations of meat products which have the same appearance as meat products and which are also labeled as the same product.” Citing vegetarian ham, vegetarian meat sausage, vegetarian schnitzel and vegan chicken, she’s worried that consumers might be deceived into thinking they’re the real thing. “Does the applicable law authorise imitation foods to be labelled as meat products such as ham, schnitzel, meat sausage, chicken, etc.?” she wondered.
In the digital archives, we also found furious inquiries from MEPs, wondering why their previous written questions hadn’t been answered. Stanislav Polčák, a Czech MEP, struck a wistful note with his complaint: “I regrettably had to wait a very long time (or more accurately, I am still waiting).”
President-elect Donald Trump’s transition into the White House is going “very, very smoothly,” he said Wednesday afternoon, hours after complaining on Twitter that President Barack Obama’s “roadblocks” had made for a rough changeover of power.
When asked by pool reporters whether he thought the transition was going smoothly, Trump replied: “Oh, I think very, very smoothly. Very good. You don’t think so?”
The reversal apparently comes after Trump and Obama spoke privately. “He phoned me,” Trump told reporters. “We had a very nice conversation.”
Trump, however, would not say whether he broached his roadblock allegations in his conversation with the president.
“We had a very general conversation,” he said. “Very, very nice. Appreciated that he called.”
After weeks of warm words and promises of a smooth transition in the wake of perhaps the most contentious presidential election in modern history, Trump accused Obama in a Wednesday morning tweet of throwing up “roadblocks.”
“Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks,” he wrote, referring to the president by his initial. “Thought it was going to be a smooth transition — NOT!”
The two men, who had little positive to say about each other on the campaign trail, seemingly buried the hatchet during an Oval Office meeting that took place just days after Trump’s surprising victory in last month’s election. Obama and Trump have spoken multiple times since then and both expressed interest in a seamless transition between administrations.
Incoming White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Wednesday during the transition team’s daily conference call for reporters that “as the inauguration gets closer, both the current president and his team have been very helpful and generous with their time as far as the actual transition, the mechanics of the transition have gone, and I expect them to continue to speak fairly regularly.”
But Spicer also refused to tone down his boss’ Twitter rhetoric, telling reporters that the president-elect’s social media posts “speak for themselves, I think very clearly.”
The budding relationship between the president and president-elect has frayed in recent weeks, first over the assessment of the FBI and CIA that the Russian government launched cyberattacks targeting the U.S. electoral process with the intention of aiding Trump’s candidacy. Trump has been unwilling to concede the validity of that assessment, or even that Russia was behind the cyberattacks at all, a stance that prompted critical remarks from White House press secretary Josh Earnest.
The president-elect also lashed out this week at the Obama administration over its unwillingness to defend Israel at the United Nations against a resolution condemning it for new settlement activity.
He told reporters that Secretary of State John Kerry’s speech Wednesday defending the U.S. abstention “really spoke for itself” and suggested the United Nations has failed to live up to its potential.
“When do you see the United Nations solving problems? They don’t,” he said. “They cause problems. So if it lives up to the potential, it’s a great thing. And if it doesn’t, it’s a waste of time and money.”
In an earlier tweet Wednesday, he said that “we cannot continue to let Israel be treated with such total disdain and disrespect” and urged Israel to “stay strong” because his inauguration on “January 20th is fast approaching!”
Obama also has made veiled criticisms of Trump in various public remarks, indirectly attacking the president-elect multiple times during his end-of-year news conference and in his remarks Tuesday at Pearl Harbor, where he warned that “even when hatred burns hottest, even when the tug of tribalism is at its most primal, we must resist the urge to turn inward. We must resist the urge to demonize those who are different.”
And in an interview with CNN’s David Axelrod, his former senior adviser, Obama said he was confident that he could have won a third term in a race against Trump running on his “hope and change” message. The president-elect disagreed.
“President Obama said that he thinks he would have won against me,” Trump wrote on Twitter Monday afternoon. “He should say that but I say NO WAY! — jobs leaving, ISIS, OCare, etc.”
Romania’s Social-Democrat Party (PSD) nominated Sorin Grindeanu for prime minister, looking to head off a potentially destabilizing clash with the president.
Grindeanu, a 43-year old former communications minister, would be the incoming coalition’s second attempt to fill the job. President Klaus Iohannis on Tuesday rejected the candidacy of Sevil Shhaideh, who would have been Romania’s first female and first Muslim head of government.
Iohannis, who emerged from the National Liberal Party, now in the opposition, did not explain his refusal, but former president Traian Băsescu suggested it could have been related to concerns about Shhaideh’s husband, a Syrian who spent most of his career working in the country’s agriculture ministry, who is reportedly a supporter of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Grindeanu is currently the president of a county council in western Romania and a leader of the local PSD branch. He served as a minister for the information society between December 2014 and November 2015, in the PSD government led by Victor Ponta, who resigned amid street protests against corruption.
“As far as I know, he is not a Hezbollah or Hamas agent, maybe it will be discovered that he’s KGB or that he murdered someone. I hope that this proposal will be taken seriously,” PSD leader Liviu Dragnea said on Wednesday when announcing Grindeanu’s nomination.
Dragnea cannot claim the prime minister job for himself because of a law that bans people with a criminal record from being a prime minister. Dragnea received a two-year suspended jail sentence in April for attempting to rig a referendum. “I didn’t want to get a position myself by forcing a law that everyone says is unconstitutional and unfair,” Dragnea said on Wednesday.
Loyalty was the first quality he referred to when explaining Grindeanu’s proposal. Shhaideh, his first proposal, was largely seen as a stand-in for Dragnea. This pick appears to follow the same logic. “We had to find a solution with a colleague who is loyal to the governing program and to the party,” Dragnea said.
The PSD decided to find a replacement and avoid a clash with the president, Dragnea said. He said he initially wanted to push through Shhaideh’s nomination, but that she decided to stand down after her family received death threats following the president’s rejection of her candidacy. “They are in a situation where they are afraid to get out of the house,” Dragnea said.
Secretary of State John Kerry will lay out his vision Wednesday for the future of Israeli-Palestinian peace as his time atop the State Department winds down.
Kerry’s speech will be a largely symbolic attempt at breathing life into a peace process under severe strain, compounded in recent days by the U.S.’s abstention during a United Nations Security Council resolution vote last week condemning settlement construction in land claimed by Palestinians in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.
President-elect Donald Trump, a bipartisan group of congressional Republicans and Democrats and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had urged the U.S. to veto the resolution — to no avail.
The State Department has characterized the fierce outcry as a “sideshow” and defended the U.S.’s decision to abstain.
“I think this is all a little bit of a sideshow, to be honest, that this was a resolution that we could not in good conscience veto because it condemns violence, it condemned incitement, it reiterates what has long been the overwhelming consensus international view on settlements, and it calls for the parties to take constructive steps to advance a two-state solution on the ground,” State Department deputy spokesman Mark Toner told reporters Tuesday. “There was nothing in there that would prompt us to veto that type of resolution.”
In a pair of tweets Wednesday morning, Trump suggested the Obama administration has treated Israel “with such total disdain and disrespect.”
“They used to have a great friend in the U.S., but not anymore,” he wrote. “The beginning of the end was the horrible Iran deal, and now this (U.N.)! Stay strong Israel, January 20th is fast approaching!”
The Israeli government had reportedly urged Trump to intervene ahead of the 14-0 vote and has since accused the U.S. of initiating the resolution put forth by Egypt. Ron Dermer, Israel’s ambassador to the U.S., told NPR that Israel will present evidence “in the appropriate channels to the new administration” of the U.S. orchestrating the resolution behind the scenes, a charge the Obama administration has vehemently denied.
White House National Security Council spokesman Ned Price has also denied allegations that Kerry and national security adviser Susan Rice met with Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat earlier this month to set up a backroom deal.
Kerry is expected to defend the U.S.’s position but also speak more broadly about the end of his term. But the anticipated speech has not gone over well in Israel.
“This step is a pathetic step,” Gilad Erdan, a senior Israeli Cabinet minister, told an Israeli radio station Wednesday morning. “It is an anti-democratic step because it’s clear that the administration and Kerry’s intention is to chain President-elect Trump.”
Kerry has been dogged in his attempts to get the Israelis and Palestinians to come together, but like many before him he’ll be leaving office having failed to achieve much. And although he’s likely to lay out some sort of parameters for a peace deal, it’s highly unlikely to become reality anytime soon.
Trump has promised to be pro-Israel during his administration, to the dismay of Palestinians. He has named David Friedman, a bankruptcy lawyer with hard-right views on Israel, as his envoy to Israel. Friedman has downplayed the potential for achieving a two-state solution and wants to move the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
After the U.N. vote, Netanyahu told his Cabinet that his message to Kerry was “friends don’t take friends to the Security Council” and that he looks forward to working with the Trump administration.
After weeks of warm words and promises of a smooth transition in the wake of perhaps the most contentious presidential election in modern history, President-elect Donald Trump complained Wednesday morning that the man he will succeed in office is throwing up “roadblocks.”
“Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks,” Trump tweeted, referring to President Barack Obama by his initial. “Thought it was going to be a smooth transition — NOT!”
The two men who had little positive to say about each other on the campaign trail seemingly buried the hatchet during an Oval Office meeting that took place just days after Trump’s surprising victory in last month’s election. Obama and Trump have spoken multiple times since then and both expressed an interest in a seamless transition between administrations. As recently as last week, incoming White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer wrote on Twitter that “the current WH has been unbelievably gracious … w/ making this transition as smooth as poss.”
But the budding relationship between the president and president-elect has frayed in recent weeks, first over the assessment of the FBI and CIA that the Russian government launched cyberattacks targeting the U.S. electoral process with the intention of aiding Trump’s candidacy. Trump has been unwilling to concede that assessment, or even that Russia was behind the cyberattacks at all, a stance that prompted critical remarks from White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest.
The president-elect also lashed out this week at the Obama administration over its unwillingness to defend Israel at the United Nations against a resolution condemning it for new settlement activity. He posted to Twitter on Christmas Eve that “the big loss yesterday for Israel in the United Nations will make it much harder to negotiate peace. Too bad, but we will get it done anyway!” He added Wednesday that “we cannot continue to let Israel be treated with such total disdain and disrespect” and urged Israel to “stay strong” because his inauguration on “January 20th is fast approaching!”
Obama has also made veiled criticisms of Trump in various public remarks, indirectly attacking the president-elect multiple times during his end-of-year press conference and in his remarks Tuesday at Pearl Harbor, where he warned that “even when hatred burns hottest, even when the tug of tribalism is at its most primal, we must resist the urge to turn inward. We must resist the urge to demonize those who are different.”
And in an interview with CNN’s David Axelrod, his former senior adviser, Obama said he was confident that he could have won a third term in a race against Trump running on his “hope and change” message. The president-elect disagreed.
“President Obama said that he thinks he would have won against me,” Trump wrote on Twitter Monday afternoon. “He should say that but I say NO WAY! — jobs leaving, ISIS, OCare, etc.”
Angela Merkel came under immediate political pressure for her open-door refugee policy following last week’s terror attack against a Berlin Christmas market, but according to a survey out Wednesday most Germans see things differently.
A survey conducted by Forsa research group for Stern magazine found 68 percent of Germans do not agree that the chancellor’s policies were to blame for the attack in which a truck plowed through a crowd, killing 12 people.
Suspect Anis Amri, a 24-year-old Tunisian who was later shot dead by police in Italy, had been denied asylum in Germany and should have been deported prior to the attack.
The vast majority of the 28 percent of respondents who said they did hold Merkel’s policies directly responsible were voters for the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party. Ninety-three percent of AfD voters surveyed said the chancellor’s policies were to blame.
A separate survey published by Stern showed the Berlin attack did not benefit the anti-immigrant AfD, whose support in polls remained at 12 percent, while Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union gained two points reaching 38 percent.
Among voters for Merkel’s party, 80 percent said the attack could not be blamed on the chancellor’s welcoming stance toward asylum seekers.
Three-quarters of all respondents predicted the ongoing terrorist threat and security situation in Germany will play an important role in the upcoming 2017 elections.
France’s presidential Elysee Palace had its 2017 greeting cards made by the printing firm where the Charlie Hebdo attackers hid from police after the January 2015 atrocity, Le Monde reported.
Brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi killed 12 employees of French satirical weekly paper Charlie Hebdo, and were found by police two days later in a printing house in Dammartin-en-Goele, about 28 miles from Paris.
The firm’s owner Michel Catalano and Lilian Lepere, one of his employees, were taken hostage. Lepere spent eight hours hiding under a sink.
At a ceremony marking the re-opening of the printing house in September, French President François Hollande awarded both Catalano and Lepere the Legion of Honor, France’s highest distinction.
The greetings cards of the Elysee will be “put in the hands of Mr. Catalano’s company at the request of the president,” Le Monde reported, citing government sources.  
 
Some 55,000 migrants, mainly from the Western Balkans, agreed to voluntarily return from Germany to their countries of origin in 2016 in exchange for government financial assistance, according to figures published by local paper Sueddeutsche Zeitung Wednesday.
The number of voluntary departures is the highest in 16 years.
Government funding covered travel expenses, a baggage allowance and cash of between €1,000 to €3,000, Sueddeutsche Zeintung reported. Migrants who return to Germany and apply for permanent residency after receiving the funds must repay authorities.
The state’s aid meant migrants were able to avoid deportation, which would ultimately have been more expensive.
Roughly 15,000 Albanians had left Germany by November, representing the largest group of migrants returning home. The newspaper reported that up to 5,000 migrants from Serbia, Kosovo and Iraq, respectively, traveled back to their countries.
Meanwhile, 3,200 Afghani migrants returned home voluntarily, a number ten times higher than in 2015.
More than a million migrants have entered Germany over the past two years, and the government is seeking ways to send back those who do not meet requirements for international protection.
From February, the state plans to introduce a new program under which migrants will receive more money the earlier they decide to return home. A family of five that fails to qualify for asylum, for example, can receive €4,200 in addition to basic support.
This story was updated with more information.
The Labour Party believes a U.K. government trial that will see voters asked for a driver’s license or passport at the ballot box could mean millions are prevented from exercising their democratic rights, according to a Guardian report Wednesday.
The government will trial voter ID requirements in 18 areas during local elections in 2018, in some areas asking for proof of address such as bills and in others for photo identification.
“Requiring voters to produce specific forms of photo ID risks denying millions of electors a vote,” said Cat Smith, Labour’s shadow minister for voter engagement. “A year ago the Electoral Commission reported that 3.5 million electors — 7.5 percent of the electorate — would have no acceptable piece of photo ID. Under the government’s proposals, these voters would either be denied a vote entirely, or in other trial areas, required to produce multiple pieces of ID.”
Smith’s comments echo those by former London Mayor Ken Livingstone, who said the proposal would hit the poorest hardest, according to the Guardian.
“That, I suspect, like the decision last year to knock a lot of people off the electoral register, is going to hit the Labour Party,” he said.
A U.S. federal appeals court has revived a pair of lawsuits seeking to force the federal government to sue former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in a quest to try to recover more emails from the private server she used while secretary of state.
A three-judge panel of the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals ruled unanimously Tuesday that a lower court judge erred when he threw out the cases as moot after the State Department received tens of thousands of emails from Clinton and more from the FBI following the criminal investigation it conducted.
Watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Cause of Action filed separate suits in 2015, asking that Secretary of State John Kerry and the head of the National Archives, Archivist David Ferriero, be required to refer the Clinton email issue to the Justice Department to consider filing a civil suit to get missing federal records back.
D.C. Circuit Judge Stephen Williams said State’s requests to Clinton and the FBI for copies of Clinton’s emails were not necessarily enough to fulfill State’s obligation to pursue any missing messages.
“Even though those efforts bore some fruit, the Department has not explained why shaking the tree harder — e.g., by following the statutory mandate to seek action by the Attorney General — might not bear more still. It is therefore abundantly clear that, in terms of assuring government recovery of emails, appellants have not ‘been given everything [they] asked for,'” Williams wrote in the court’s opinion, joined by Judges Brett Kavanaugh and Robert Wilkins. “Absent a showing that the requested enforcement action could not shake loose a few more emails, the case is not moot.”
Clinton turned over about 54,000 pages of messages at State’s request in December 2014. She also instructed her aides to erase a similar quantity of emails her lawyers determined were entirely personal. In August 2015, her attorneys gave thumb drives containing copies of the work-related messages to the Justice Department.
Clinton attorney David Kendall did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday. Clinton and her attorneys previously have said she has no more messages to turn over, whether suits are filed or not.
A spokesman for the Justice Department, which is representing State and the National Archives in the litigation, also declined to comment on the ruling.
The outcome of the appeals court case may have been influenced by the timing of the arguments, which took place in early November, just after FBI Director James Comey revealed in a letter to Congress that his agency had come across more Clinton emails. They were found on a laptop belonging to Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin.
Comey’s disclosure of the discovery roiled the final days of the presidential election, even though he announced two days before the vote that the new evidence had not changed the FBI’s conclusions that no prosecution of Clinton was warranted. Many Clinton aides and allies blame Comey’s messages to Congress about the developments for tilting the election to the victor, Republican nominee Donald Trump.
The discovery of the new emails on Weiner’s laptop was in the news as the case was argued and may have dramatized the possibility for the judges that additional Clinton emails exist in places that were not searched by Clinton, her aides, or, at least initially, by the FBI.
Williams does not mention the belatedly discovered emails in the opinion issued Tuesday but seems convinced that turning up more of the messages is a live possibility. He also said the record did not show what State had done to recover emails Clinton exchanged on a separate BlackBerry-based account during the early weeks of her tenure.
“While the case might well … be moot if a referral were pointless (e.g., because no imaginable enforcement action by the Attorney General could lead to recovery of the missing emails), the record here provides no factual support for finding mootness on that basis,” Williams wrote.
The appeals court ruling stops short of ordering the district court to force State to make the Federal Records Act referral to the Justice Department, leaving the possibility the cases could be dismissed on other grounds before such a directive is issued. The D.C. Circuit judges also indicated they were not taking a position on whether the attorney general would be required to sue if presented with a referral on the issue.
Williams was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, Kavanaugh by President George W. Bush and Wilkins by President Barack Obama. The judge who issued the initial decision tossing out the cases, James Boasberg, is also an Obama appointee.
The electoral set piece events of 2017 are circled in bright red on the political calendar. Will Angela Merkel hang on in German elections in the fall? Will the French elect Marine Le Pen president in late spring? And the Dutch a far-right prime minister in March?
Brussels may not be known for down-in-the-mud politics, but that is where the season begins, and well before national elections heat up.
Events playing out around the European Parliament, while worth watching in their own right, will resonate beyond its chambers.
Just a little more than two weeks into the new year, MEPs will choose their new president from, most likely, three centrist candidates: On the center right, Antonio Tajani of the European People’s Party; on the center-left, Gianni Pittella of the Socialists & Democrats; and the leader of the liberals Guy Verhofstadt who, to the surprise of tout Bruxelles, has not yet said whether his hat is in the ring or not.
For the first time in a while, it’s an open race — and a tricky one. None of the three can win without one of the others withdrawing. None of the three can get the job if the two others join forces, except if they allow the far Right to have a say, and historically, the main parties have been unwilling to do that, seeing them as detrimental to the European project. And only one of the three can save both the honor of their group and personal pride.
In this political game of chicken, the question is, who will be the first to blink? It looks like there won’t be an answer before the first round of voting on January 17. The three blocs have raised the stakes too high for a backroom deal, making the election a question of principles for the first time in a while.
That situation will require creativity from group leaders on election day. As it happens, two of the three candidates are leaders of their respective groups themselves. In other words, don’t expect a winner in the first round. This will be a fight until at least one candidate withdraws, which, given the personalities and stakes in play, could take a while.
The EPP touts the “transparent process” that made Tajani candidate for their group. The controversial Italian’s ghosts in the closet — to wit his involvement in the Dieselgate scandal and his past life as Silvio Berlusconi’s sidekick — didn’t stop his sprint to a primary win, to the surprise of many insiders and outsiders alike. By contrast, the S&D elected Pittella by decree as if the Holy Spirit had guided its members. Verhofstadt still has a way out: saying he hasn’t officially declared his candidacy but has merely been put forward by his ALDE group of liberals for the job. His voluble ego might get in the way of a quiet withdrawal.
Under parliamentary rules, to be elected president a candidate must win an absolute majority of the votes cast, which means 50 percent plus one. The European Parliament is comprised of 751 members, so 376 votes are needed to win the presidency. Currently, the EPP holds 216 seats, while the S&D has 189, the European Conservatives and Reformists have 74 and ALDE has 69. Smaller parties and non-affiliated MEPs make up the balance. Allegiances tend to break along party lines, but also nationally with Germany having 96 MEPs, followed by France with 74, and Italy and the U.K. with 73 each.
How this plays out next month will show whether Parliament’s big players prefer a stable majority built among the big groups — though that outcome will require a few to eat humble pie — to infighting among themselves. It will also show if, by coming together around a new leader, they are committed to continue to build up the Parliament as a powerful player in Brussels as in recent years. It’s easier for other power players in the EU, such as the Commission and member governments, to outmaneuver a divided and fractious chamber.
The times are a-changin’ at the Parliament, as a Nobel Prize-winner once sang, meaning 2017 will be a very different, possibly even more testing year for another Brussels VIP: Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker.
For the past two-plus years, the Luxembourger counted on his bromance with departing Parliament President Martin Schulz to make his life easier in town. Though Juncker’s an EPP guy and Schulz a Socialist, the duo hatched an alliance based on genuine personal chemistry to ease the Commission’s agenda through the chamber. But Schulz’s bigger ambitions to pursue a career in national politics, possibly even leading the Social Democrats into battle against Merkel, leave Juncker on his own, facing a more hostile Parliament.
European elections in 2019 are two years away, but that might as well be next week for MEPs who will be seeking to make a mark on some policy initiative. Translated into European politics, that means show your independence, raise the volume and take a stand on a hallmark issue rather than compromise; especially if you’re a rapporteur on a dossier, be it meaningful or not, or a group chairman.
The most contentious matters before Brussels in 2017 are likely to include economic and fiscal policy. Socialists are set to keep pushing for an end to austerity, while the Conservatives elevate the insistence that EU countries honor fiscal rules into a founding principle. The balance between security and civil liberties is likely to emerge as yet another controversial issue, as is the long-awaited reform of the EU asylum rules, penciled into lawmakers’ agendas for 2017.
Over at the Commission, Juncker’s promise not to run for another term again in 2019 is an implicit invitation to other commissioners to start gunning for the job. So who is in play? Commission colleagues have noticed the ambition of First Vice President Frans Timmermans, a Dutch pol of the left-leaning variety. The EU is still waiting for a woman at the top of one of its organizations. Current foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini is another Socialist name mentioned in the corridors. On the EPP side, former Finnish Prime Minister and current Commission Vice President Jyrki Katainen comes to many lips.
On matters of substance, in a year dominated by elections and political posturing, diplomats and parliamentarians expect the Commission will propose little and decide even less, especially if it affects countries in election mode. Besides the Dutch, French and Germans, the Italians — the third power in the EU, with Britain on the way out — are also possibly headed for polls in 2017.
The other big date on the EU political calendar isn’t known yet but likely one day toward the end of March. When Theresa May invokes Article 50 and gets the two-year divorce train going for the U.K. from the EU, the talks will consume more of the EU’s time, focus and resources than the EU’s leaders would have liked or originally expected.
Earlier this year, insisting that Brexit was merely a technical negotiation, the other 27 countries tried to shift the focus to the “Bratislava agenda,” a two-page plan to highlight the benefits of the Union for its citizens. The subsequent three months since Bratislava focused almost squarely on the politics of Brexit, with the summit in the Slovak capital quickly forgotten. So, too, the gala to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, which in effect created the Europe we know today, which won’t be the hoped-for fresh start for the EU of 27. At just that time, the British prime minister is supposed to file divorce papers, overshadowing the birthday party.
One silver lining for the incumbents facing elections is the pain of Brexit, for their purposes best wholly inflicted on the Albion by itself, which will remind voters in an anti-establishment frame of mind of the upsides of the current, European order.
Article 50, the legal basis of the negotiations, was drafted entirely to deter not to ease separation. It sets a strict two-year deadline, can’t be reversed and threatens to cut a member loose without any sort of transition deal. The power dynamic is clear: Britain against 27, who have repeated the same line about “no cherry picking” the good bits of EU membership in a transition arrangement.
Brussels just offered up a timely reminder that it — and not any outside, or soon-to-be outside state — determines the nature of their relationship. Earlier this month, following a 2014 referendum that called for an end to “mass immigration,” Switzerland backed off plans to impose quotas on the number of EU citizens allowed to work in the country. The alternative was to lose access to the EU single market.
In a pre-Christmas message, Juncker said last week: “The Swiss authorities and the European institutions have worked tirelessly to find a solution that would guarantee full respect for one of our founding principles: the free movement of persons. The Commission will closely monitor the implementation of this solution. 2017 could be a milestone in the development of closer relations between the European Union and Switzerland, with a view to enhancing still further the vitality of our area of freedom – of all forms of freedom – to the benefit of all our citizens.”
In other words, the EU successfully played hardball with Switzerland’s direct democracy and won. No exception allowed, not for a traditional ally, not one with a relatively important economy and a financial center, not even after a popular vote. Is London listening? For all the proclamations of its growing irrelevance, possibly soon death, Brussels is making the case that it matters as much as ever.
Florian Eder writes POLITICO‘s daily German-language column, Morgen Europa.
Ladies and gentlemen, a big drum roll — and a few honking raspberries — for your list of likely 2017 winners and losers:
Gold leaf dealers: Donald and Melania Trump are moving into the White House. Will there be an inch of the private apartments that has not been gilded by the time they leave?
Theresa May: Britain’s new prime minister might not be much of a sunbeam, but she has plenty to smile about. If Brexit negotiations go well for Britain, she will be a national heroine. If the EU plays hardball, it will be easy for her to depict herself as an embattled Britannia taking on perfidious Continentals. May could style herself as the new Margaret Thatcher and call a general election. Opinion polls currently have her 12 points ahead. With the Labour Party in disarray, the task of opposition has fallen to activist lawyers and chi-chi metropolitans led by Bob Geldof and posh millionaire Gina Miller, wife of a City hedge fund manager. Electorally, that’s hardly a great look.
Vladimir Putin: If Russia’s pint-sized muscle man is strutting around like a sexed-up bantam, it is hardly a surprise. His militaristic maneuvers in Ukraine and Syria have restored his Moscow machismo, and the democratic upheavals in the West just show what a bunch of hand-wringing ninnies they all are. Democracy, pah! Russia’s economy may be tanking, but mad Vlad can seldom have felt safer in the Kremlin.
Vexillologists: A crumbling of EU federalism and the rise of Trump signal creamy days for vexillologists, or flagmakers. How so? Doesn’t European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker insist “nation states” are doomed? Not for the first time, thirsty Jean-Claude may be seeing a mirage. Brexit has injected EU politics with the narcotic of nationalism. That will mean flag-waving. And that in turn will mean … flag sales! Flags are also likely to be bought by both Trump supporters and Trump haters. The former to fly the Stars and Stripes, the latter to burn it.
Michel Barnier: The French EU Brexit negotiator (see Guy Verhofstadt below) is a man for whom the verb “shimmer” was surely invented. Quelle schmoozer. Smooth as hair conditioner, he is. If he manages to screw the Brits, French voters will love him, and he could win a big role in any center-right Paris government. If the Brits secure a jammy deal from Brussels, Barnier will be able to blame his Belgian colleague Verhofstadt.
Marine Le Pen: Publicity, media coverage, airtime, oodles of it. That is what 2017 promises for the National Front’s candidate in the French presidential election. Le Pen may not win, but it will become hard to avoid sight and sound of her. And that normalization, for her party, will represent a triumph of sorts.
Boris Johnson: “Everyone” says the British foreign secretary is a blundering liability. But “everyone” may be wrong. His latest “gaffe” was to accuse Saudi Arabia of fomenting sectarian wars in the Middle East. Cue much neck-clutching from London’s commentariat. But the reaction from many British people was, “er, well, he’s right, isn’t he?” Blond Boris is good fun. He makes other foreign ministers feel good. He engages the public. In 2017, he will no doubt continue to defy the “gloomadons” and continue his exuberant, cartwheeling career.
Silvio Berlusconi and Beppe Grillo: With Matteo Renzi having bitten the dust in the Italian referendum, Silvio is smiling — even if it is hard to tell after all his plastic surgery. The old scoundrel may be fancying his chances of returning to prominence in 2017. Meanwhile, the 5Star Movement’s Grillo has been able to celebrate Renzi’s defenestration while remaining in opposition — the best place for an iconoclast.
Paolo Gentiloni: New prime minister of Italy. Can he stay upright as long as a windsurfer? Quite possibly not.
Torremolinos: The Costa del Sol town is a favorite with lower-income British tourists. With the pound having dropped in value, they will have less spare cash to splurge on paella and chips. Torremolinos and many similar Spanish resorts may find their profits slumping.
NATO: President-elect Trump may not have thought through his campaign-stump NATO skepticism, but it has already created uncertainty about one of the West’s diplomatic bulwarks of the last 60 years. With so many member countries spending not even 2 percent of their GDP on defense, NATO looks worryingly undernourished.
Olivier B: François Hollande’s hairdresser has allegedly been paid €10,000 a month to tend to the receding locks of the French president. But on April 23 (which is also St. George’s Day), a new French president will be chosen, Hollande having decided to sit out this dance. And so, the man identified only as “Olivier B” will pack away his scissors and clippers and razors and unguents and lotions and talcum powders and hot towelettes and squirty mists of forest fragrances, and the Élysée Palace will see him no more. A nation mourns.
Le Canard enchaîné: The French satirical magazine will also miss Hollande. What a boon to sales the old bottom-pincher has been these past five years. A Le Pen presidency would make rich pickings for satirists, but a François Fillon win — perhaps the more likely outcome — would be less propitious for those who live by mocking the mighty.
The people of Syria: It is, alas, hard to see how anyone in Syria is going to have a particularly good 2017.
Guy Verhofstadt: Former Belgian prime minister Verhofstadt and France’s Michel Barnier will be leading the EU’s Brexit negotiations. Which of the two will emerge on top? Gorgeous Guy, with his center-parting, Austin Powers spectacles and snaggle teeth? Or mannequin Michel with his male-model contours, that sweeping gray fringe and sleek Savile Row-style suits? Surely only one result is possible, and it’s not looking good for the Belgian.
Angela Merkel: Germany has an election this fall, and although Chancellor Merkel may win, rust spots are starting to appear on the old girl’s hull. Her stabilizers are not what they were. The bridge is leaking, and mutiny is in the air. Frau M’s handling of immigration policy has caused chaos across Europe. Bavarian carmakers are agitating over the Brexit negotiations. If the chancellor is returned to power in reduced circumstances, how will that affect her long-term reputation?
London’s judges: After a High Court defeat, the May government appealed to London’s newish Supreme Court in a case which will see a ruling in mid-January on ministers’ executive powers regarding Brexit. But the bigger debate in 2017 may become judicial powers and judicial “overreach,” as Euroskeptics see it. The legal establishment may want to hold on to its wigs. With pro-Brexit newspapers working themselves into indignation, things could become pretty stormy.
Quentin Letts writes for the Daily Mail.
Arrow design by Freepik/Flaticon.
How will we know when America is great again?
The economy is doing pretty well by traditional measurements such as unemployment — now at a nine-year low of 4.6 percent — and growth — currently at an annual rate of more than 3 percent. But Donald Trump regularly dismisses such numbers, describing the official unemployment rate as “total fiction” and slamming President Barack Obama for failing to stem the loss of industrial jobs.
So now that the Obama economy is about to become the Trump economy, Trump is likely to focus on the metrics that drove his campaign: wage increases, manufacturing jobs, a larger labor force, a declining trade deficit and faster overall growth.
And if the American economy fails to advance on these fronts, Trump may simply redefine what success looks like.
“Some of the traditional measures of economic success like the top-line unemployment rate aren’t really very meaningful anymore,” said Stephen Moore, a Heritage Foundation scholar who advised the campaign on economic policy. “Trump will be measured on how well he does bringing economic development to areas that never felt the recovery, and that means Michigan, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin and more rural areas in places like Virginia and the Southeastern states. That’s how he won and he has to deliver for those people.”
Doing so will not be easy, many experts say.
If Trump imposes tariffs on imports, as the transition team has suggested he might, the immediate impact would likely be to increase prices for consumers and also for U.S. manufacturers who rely on a global supply chain. And new manufacturing jobs in the U.S. tend to be automated or require a higher level of skill than many workers possess. There were 322,000 manufacturing job openings in October but employers filled only 271,000 of them, according to the latest government data, suggesting a mismatch between openings and skills.
Wages are already rising, so Trump might be able to simply claim credit if the trend continues. But the labor force has been stuck near historic lows for years. Trump’s plans for lower corporate taxes and fewer regulations could lead to somewhat faster growth, analysts say.
But that growth could take several years to develop — a tax reform plan may not even be enacted until the second half of next year — and there is no guarantee it will draw back in workers who left the labor force during the most recent recession and have not returned. All of this means the return of widespread manufacturing gains in the Midwest that Trump promised may not materialize.
Coal industry job declines could ease if Trump rips up current regulations, but big gains could also be elusive there, given the decline in coal’s share of American electricity production.
“He’s likely to be unsuccessful on any sort of broad increase in U.S. manufacturing jobs,” said James Pethokoukis, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “That line may blip up or down based on how the economy is doing but these are long-term trends that aren’t likely to change.”
Trump transition officials did not respond to a request for comment on how the administration would measure economic success.
In the face of all these challenges, Trump could simply use anecdotal examples of new manufacturing and coal industry jobs, seize on any further increase in wages, decide the jobless rate is now legitimate and declare victory.
“The president-elect judges his own personal wealth based on his own feelings,” Pethokoukis said. “So on any given day, he could just decide based on his feelings that America is great.”
Critics of Trump’s approach suggest this may be the most likely outcome given current structural problems in the economy and the president-elect’s tendency to spin any failure as a great success. In Atlantic City, for example, Trump faced multiple bankruptcies yet declared in a New York Times interview earlier this year that, “the money I took out of there was incredible.”
Trump proved adept during the campaign at defining his opponents and could attempt to do the same on the economy even if he shows limited success on his own benchmarks.
“In all likelihood, he will fit his commentary and narrative with a success factor no matter how unsuccessful he is in regard to policy,” said Douglas Kass, president of investment firm Seabreeze Partners. “That is the way he thinks and justifies most of what he does.”
This could prove most difficult for Trump in on of the areas on which he focused most heavily during the campaign: the U.S. trade deficit.
Trump consistently railed about the imbalance, especially with Mexico and China, on the campaign trail. “We don’t have to continue to lose $505 billion as a trade deficit for the privilege of dealing with China,” he said at a GOP debate in January. In another debate, he pledged to reduce “a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year.”
But the immediate reality is that the U.S. trade deficit, which was $531.5 billion in 2015, is likely to get wider under Trump as the dollar continues to rise and U.S. exports get more expensive. Trump’s plan to cut taxes and fuel growth could drive the dollar and interest rates even higher, putting more pressure on the trade deficit.
Stock trader Luke Scanlon, right, works at the New York Stock Exchange on Dec. 22, 2016, in New York. | AP Photo
This has led some conservative Republicans who otherwise support Trump to wish he would drop his focus on the trade deficit as an indicator of economic progress.
“It’s regrettable but he may look at the trade deficit as a measure of his success,” said one senior Republican who declined to be identified by name as criticizing a president-elect known to punish those he perceives as enemies. “I would argue that if the pro-growth elements of the program work, then the trade deficit is going to get larger, probably quite a bit larger.”
For many more traditional Republicans, the size of the trade deficit really doesn’t matter as it can simply reflect foreign investors pouring capital into the United States.
“Trump’s policies will create a lot of investment in the United States, this was the story in the Reagan years,” said Moore. “When that happens, you get a current account surplus and a trade deficit. But what matters is total exports. No one really thinks the trade deficit is a really important measure.”
Well, no one but Trump.
A rising trade deficit — even among other improving indicators — could be tough for the incoming president to explain away. But if anyone can simply shift the definition of what it means to be great, it’s Trump.
“He may just have to tell us when America is great again,” said Pethokoukis.
Romanian President Klaus Iohannis on Tuesday rejected Sevil Shhaideh’s candidacy for prime minister, without offering a precise explanation.
His decision was condemned by the parties that won this month’s parliamentary elections, and could bring on weeks of political and constitutional uncertainty in the southeastern European nation of 20 million.
“I weighed with care the arguments for and against and I decided not to accept this proposal,” Iohannis said, saying the two coalition members should name someone else.
Shhaideh was put forward for the job by the the Social-Democrat Party (PSD), which came first in the parliamentary  vote on December 11, and its junior partner ALDE, a liberal bloc. Shhaideh, an ethnic Tatar, would have been the first woman and first Muslim to hold the job in Romania.
PSD leader Liviu Dragnea and ALDE leader Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu on Tuesday accused Iohanis of pushing Romania toward a political crisis. The parliamentary majority could try to suspend the president for not respecting the constitution. The president has to name a prime minister from the ranks of the parliamentary majority.
The president emerged from the National Liberal Party, now in the opposition, though under the Romanian constitution he’s supposed to be above partisan politics.
Dragnea said Iohannis had no reason to refuse Shhaideh, who had previously served as regional development minister. The two parties will decide by Wednesday night whether to initiate a suspension of the president, according to Dragnea. “If, after the analysis we will make briefly, we will conclude that it is good for the country to suspend the president, I won’t hesitate,” he said. “In my opinion, the president wants a suspension because he probably thinks, wrongly, that he can reinvent himself. We have to think very carefully if we throw the country in this political crisis.”
Dragnea can’t take the job himself for legal and political reasons. He received a two-year suspended jail sentence in April for attempting to rig a referendum.
Iohannis said earlier this year that he would refuse to name anyone with a criminal record for the job, ruling out the PSD’s Dragnea. Shhaideh appears to have a clear record, but she was seen as a stand-in for Dragnea. He said as much himself. “I am sending a strong message to all Romanians, through this proposal, that I assume the full responsibility for the government activity and for applying the governing program,” Dragnea said in announcing her choice last week.
“No one can impose a nomination to the president,” Iohannis told POLITICO in October. He said he had to name someone from the party which won a majority in the parliament. “But I am still the one to name that person from that party, after political discussions with the party,” he said.
Former Romanian President Traian Băsescu, a PSD foe, has said that Shhaideh’s husband, a Syrian who spent most of his career working in the country’s agriculture ministry, poses a problem given his support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
On Tuesday, he called on the president and the PSD leader to find a solution quickly and to avoid a battle of egos. “It is not the moment for a useless political war between Dragnea and Iohannis,” he wrote on Facebook.
Jeremy Corbyn’s spokesman fired back on Tuesday at Barack Obama for his suggestion that the U.K. Labour Party’s leader is not “grounded in fact and reality,” likening him to the Republican president-elect, Donald Trump.
“Both Labour and U.S. Democrats will have to challenge power if they are going to speak for working people and change a broken system that isn’t delivering for the majority,” Corbyn’s spokesman said, according to the Independent. “What Jeremy Corbyn stands for is what most people want; to take on the tax cheats, create a fairer economy, fund a fully public NHS, build more homes and stop backing illegal wars.”
In a podcast interview, Obama’s former aide David Axelrod, who also advised Labour’s former leader Ed Miliband, asked the outgoing American president whether was worried about the “Corbynization” of the Democratic Party, noting that Labour “just sort of disintegrated” following its defeat in the 2015 elections.
“I don’t worry about that, partly because I think that the Democratic Party has stayed pretty grounded in fact and reality,” Obama said, adding that Trump emerged from a decade or two in which the Republican Party moved further away from “a basic consensus around things like climate change or how the economy works.”
Bernie Sanders, who ran against Hillary Clinton to be the Democratic presidential nominee, is “pretty centrist” compared to Corbyn or some Republicans, Obama said.
Members of Moldova’s parliament have re-hung an EU flag over the entrance to the country’s presidential office after new pro-Russia President Igor Dodon had it removed over the Christmas period.
Liberal Party MP Alina Zotea posted pictures on Facebook on Monday of the group of parliamentarians returning the EU banner to its position alongside Moldova’s national flag at the entrance to the office.
The move to remove the flag was “clearly illegal” and had an “unconstitutional character,” Zotea said on Facebook, adding it was done “in the middle of the night, in hiding, with Kremlin messengers at the table.”
Dodon leads Moldova’s Socialists and won the presidency in November. Since taking office last week he has switched the language options on his presidential website from “Romanian” to “Moldovan” in a nationalist move, local media reported.
The role of president in Moldova is largely ceremonial but Dodon has previously proposed a referendum on the country’s association agreement with the EU.
Moldova, which borders Ukraine and Romania, is one of the poorest countries in Europe. It has actively pursued EU membership, but a dispute over its Russia-backed breakaway territory of Transnistria has been a stumbling block.
Dodon is expected to visit Moscow early next year.
An Ankara court has banned all media from publishing news related to last week’s assassination of Russian Ambassador to Turkey Andrey Karlov, according to the state-run Anadolu news agency.
The ban was implemented at the request of the Ankara chief public prosecutor’s office, Anadolu reported, and applies to footage from the crime scene and information related to the victim, suspects and witnesses. The gag will remain in place until a police investigation into the matter is finalized.
Karlov was speaking at the opening of an exhibition entitled “Russia as seen by Turks” in Ankara when he was shot dead by 22-year-old off-duty police officer Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş.
Altıntaş shouted “Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria.”
The world’s best photojournalists this year turned their lenses on glory and gore; on hope and despair; and more than in recent memory, on voters determined to enact change.
What’s changed since this time last year? Britain is leaving the European Union, and no one is quite sure what comes next. U.S. President Barack Obama is leaving the White House, clearing a path for Donald Trump. Refugees continue to flee war zones, risking life and limb for a future that is at best uncertain.
Some images here will bring a tear to your eye; a few will make you smile. You’ll see some that could double as fine art, if the circumstances under which they were made weren’t so tragic and life-changing. This selection, much like life in 2016, is a mixed bag.
I’ll close with the same disclaimer we ran last year: This isn’t meant to be a comprehensive look at the year, nor a judgment about which stories were most important (though many here certainly were). This is a curated selection of the 41 photographs that I felt had the most impact.
In the low-income neighborhood of Petare in Caracas, Venezuela, penitents and pilgrims gravitate toward a cross during the procession for the Passion of Jesus Christ on Good Friday.
In a plenary session in Pristina, Kosovo, in February, lawmakers in the foreground raise hands to vote as opposition lawmakers throw tear gas and don gas masks. As Albin Kurti, the opposition leader, told POLITICO, “quiet protests lead nowhere.”
It’s difficult to imagine a more perfectly composed photograph made under more difficult circumstances. Associated Press photographer Burhan Ozbilici was attending a photo exhibition in Istanbul the evening of December 19 when a man in a suit — now identified as Mevlut Mert Altintas — calmly drew a gun and shot Andrei Karlov, the Russian ambassador to Turkey. Shouting “Don’t forget Aleppo! Don’t forget Syria!,” Altintas fatally shot Karlov in front of stunned onlookers before himself being shot by police. Ozbilici made this image, and dozens more, that is so sharp it almost looks staged. It isn’t — it is the result of a trained journalist recording the news. As he said, it was pure instinct. “This is what I was thinking: ‘I’m here. Even if I get hit and injured, or killed, I’m a journalist. I have to do my work. I could run away without making any photos … But I wouldn’t have a proper answer if people later ask me: ‘Why didn’t you take pictures?'”
Just five months after terrorist attacks rocked Paris, it was Brussels’ turn. On the morning of March 22, two bombs ripped through Zaventem airport. Shortly thereafter (when some of us were frantically trying to make it to the office), a bomb went off in the Maalbeek Metro station in the European Quarter. This photo, shot by Georgian journalist Ketevan Kardava, was made with a phone after she was knocked to the floor by the blast at the airport.
Two days later, as news of the attacks rippled through Europe, three young refugees posed with signs at a makeshift camp along the Greek-Macedonian border near the village of Idomeni.
Repositioning the globe to South America, and from one tragedy to another: As Brazil prepared for the Olympics, the Zika crisis deepened. Here, Jackeline, 26, holds up her four-month-old son Daniel, who was born with microcephaly.
The Olympic Games — despite growing concern over infrastructure, water quality and Zika, among other things — went off, largely without a hitch (unless you consider Ryan Lochte’s false robbery claim a hitch, as the U.S. Olympic Committee surely does.) Jamaica’s Usain Bolt won three gold medals to cap his international career. The frame above, by Reuters’ Kai Pfaffenbach, is strikingly similar to one by Getty Images’ Cameron Spencer, so much so that the two were often mistaken for each other. Though different (same method — a tenth-of-a-second difference in shutter speed), each shows two things clearly: that Bolt had no real competitor, and that he is a true showman, always aware of the lens.
Back in Europe, a refugee in a camp near Idomeni, Greece, takes a decidedly more lonesome path in the middle of these train tracks.
One image seen round the world last year was the heartbreaking photograph of a drowned Syrian boy, washed up on the Turkish shore. This year, the most iconic depiction of the refugee crisis was Omran Daqneesh, a five-year-old loaded into the back of an ambulance in Aleppo. It was hard to look away: a small child, dropped into a large seat, covered in dust, bruises and a bit of blood. But no tears. He stared straight at the camera, seemingly in shock. And then he rubbed the side of his face, and the camera went elsewhere. Omran was released from hospital into his parents’ care a few hours later. Unfortunately, his 10-year-old brother Ali was not so lucky. He died from injuries sustained in the airstrike.
AFP photographer Aris Messinis spent days aboard a boat operated by the NGO Proactiva Open Arms in the Mediterranean Sea in October. He and the boat’s crew encountered dozens of boats and thousands of refugees. Some 12 nautical miles north of Libya, they came across a mass of migrants holding aloft a young child, as a beacon for rescuers.
As the crew urged migrants off the boat, Messinis came upon a truly horrific scene, which he recounted later for The New York Times in a piece called “Stepping over the dead.”
And back in Aleppo, it’s scenes like this that have driven so many to take risks like those shown above. Syrian men carrying babies made their way through the rubble of destroyed buildings following a September air strike in the rebel-held Salihin neighborhood.
And as images of families trying to escape Aleppo began making the rounds earlier this month, came this: Pro-government forces stopped to take a selfie in the courtyard of the ancient Umayyad mosque in the old city.
The heaving masses, in this case, came together for good. Members of the “Colla Vella dels Xiquets de Valls” team press together to form a human tower in Tarragona, Spain.
It’s increasingly rare to find such a fresh voice in photography, so naturally able to capture a mood, a state of being. Enter Nico Young, a high school student in Santa Monica, California. As the story goes, Young’s photography teacher emailed some of his work to Kathy Ryan, director of photography for the New York Times Magazine and one of the foremost authorities on visual storytelling. A month later, he had his first assignment for the magazine: to document the life of a high schooler and those around him. The result — a remarkable photo essay that feels as much if not more like high school than actually walking through the halls — landed this photo of Young’s on the cover of the magazine.
As complete a body of work as “Inside Santa Monica High” is, what’s extraordinary is the depth of Young’s portfolio. Spend some time with “Fraternal Twins,” an insightful journey on which the photographer examines his relationship with a pair of twins — friends of his who run in different circles. Be sure to make it all the way to the end. Comparing Young’s thoughts on Dylan and Max from before the project started to his impressions at its conclusion shows that it’s not just his photographic eye that is wise beyond his years.
In Haiti, the calm before the storm created an image worthy of a gallery wall as clouds enveloped the tightly-packed houses of Port-au-Prince ahead of Hurricane Matthew. The Category 5 storm claimed more than 500 lives in Haiti before it swirled to the north.
Back in the United Kingdom, the disaster enveloping David Cameron in June came at the hands of Leave campaigners, as Great Britain voted for Brexit, dealing a losing hand to the prime minister. Here, it’s hard to take your eyes off the Cameron family as its patriarch announces his resignation the day after the vote. From left, we see daughters Nancy Gwen and Florence Rose Endellion, Cameron’s wife Samantha, and his son Arthur Elwen.
And then there was Donald Trump. Here, Secret Service agents await his arrival at the Trump International Golf Links in Aberdeen, Scotland.
In July, the future looked so bright for Hillary Clinton. Here, in what Time Magazine called “The Happiest Photo of Hillary Clinton,” the former senator was indeed overjoyed at becoming the first female presidential candidate for a major party at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. Her running mate, Tim Kaine, is shown at left.
And before we dig deep into the U.S. presidential race, an image that gave all of America some hope, however briefly, that unity and good will might prevail, regardless of the election’s result. First Lady Michelle Obama embraces former President George W. Bush, as Bush’s wife and Obama’s husband look on at the opening of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. (Worth noting: This appearance came during peak campaigning in late September.)
And then there’s this guy. In a shocking upset to pollsters and politicos, Donald Trump pulled off a victory on Election Day. Regularly deriding the press in person and from his Twitter account, Trump’s influence is seen here in the face — and on the head and fingers — of a supporter at his victory party in Manhattan.
And here, then, is the current president and America’s president-elect, in the Oval Office. It’s difficult not to read into the expressions captured here. And that can perhaps be done in any number of ways. So we’ll just leave you with this one to interpret as you see fit.
Now, to the art world! A staff member examines one of the Turner Prize nominees at Tate Britain in September. The… installation… is titled “Project for a Door,” by the British artist Anthea Hamilton. It did not win the Turner Prize. But it did win our hearts. Or something.
Here is an image that has been a long time coming for many Cuban-Americans. (And Cubans. And Americans.) That’s Air Force One on approach to the Havana airport. An agreement brokered in late 2014, now referred to as the “Cuban thaw,” relaxes travel and banking restrictions and establishes an American embassy in Havana. In March, after this plane landed, Barack Obama became the first U.S. president to step foot on Cuban soil in 88 years.
Back home, though, relations between African-Americans and police forces continued to be strained. On July 5, police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shot and killed a 37-year-old black man named Alton Sterling. On July 6, Black Lives Matter demonstrators held a candlelight vigil in the city and on July 7 in Dallas (and in many cities across the country), a protest against police — peaceful up until that point — ended when one man ambushed police officers, killing five and wounding seven more. The next night, hundreds more demonstrations sprung up around the country, including in Phoenix, Arizona, where the image above was captured.
And if one photograph has come to symbolize that movement, it is this one by Jonathan Bachman of a single, peaceful protester standing her ground in Baton Rouge on July 9. As Donald R. Winslow, a former Reuters photo editor, said in a post examining the impact of the photograph: “The body language says it all. They are combatants. She is femininity. They are prepared for brutality. She embodies serenity.”
And even an image that captures brute force can, too, somehow reflect serenity. Here, the British diver Tom Daley makes impact with the water during the 10-meter semifinals in Rio de Janeiro. Though Daley and partner Dan Goodfellow won bronze in the synchronized 10-meter event, Daley failed to make it out of the semifinals of the solo competition, finishing 18th.
Turning to Asia, few world leaders have made as many headlines as Rodrigo Duterte, the controversial president of the Philippines. The former mayor of Davao City was elected on an anti-crime platform, which is to say he pledged to kill tens of thousands of criminals, with special attention paid to drug offenders. After taking his oath, he addressed a small crowd. “These sons of whores are destroying our children … If you know of any addicts, go ahead and kill them yourself.” His crackdown is having a profound effect on the nation, as you’ll see here. Above, men jockey for sleeping positions in a jail built six decades ago to house 800 people. Its population has swelled to more than 3,800.
And this is a scene all too familiar to Filipinos — one so spectacualar in composition and lighting, it even looks cinematic. But this is real. Frederick Mafe, 48, and Arjay Lumbago, 23, were riding together on a motorbike when they were shot dead by another pair on a motorbike in Quezon City. Since Duterte took office, more than 2,000 people have been killed at the hands of the police.
In Manila, six-year-old Jimji cries out for “Papa!” as her father, Jimboy Bolasa, 25, is moved in preparation for burial. Bolasa was found murdered alongside his neighbor in October. It’s worth spending some time with Daniel Berehulak’s chilling body of work for the Times on this topic: “They are slaughtering us like animals.” Duterte has called the coverage “totally one-sided,” according to a follow-up from the Times, which of course stands by the work of its two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist on the ground there.
This is a place where there’s a little more room to spin completely out of control: the Gobi Desert, as part of the Silkway Rally, which took 130 competitors on a 10,734-kilometer journey from Moscow to Beijing.
Here, Paolo Pellegrin takes us inside an ISIL prison in Fallujah. The chain is for suspending prisoners during torture sessions.
This image may not be the most striking you’ll see here, at least initially. But give a read to photojournalist Bryan Denton’s harrowing account of watching car bomb after car bomb careen toward his unit’s convoy in Bartella — “ISIS Sent Four Car Bombs. The Last One Hit Me.” — and then re-examine.
Which is meant to camouflage the other? A young boy peeks through a cloth backdrop to try and get a glimpse of Donald Trump as he arrived backstage for a rally with sportsmen in Walterboro, South Carolina.
On a Friday night in July, the news alerts seemed to catch everyone off guard: A coup in Turkey? Indeed. Though it didn’t last long, and was ultimately unsuccessful, it claimed more than 300 lives. More than 2,100 were injured and the arrests following its conclusion numbered in the tens of thousands. In the image above, soldiers involved in the coup attempt surrender on the Bosphorous bridge in Istanbul.
In an image as stark and sudden as the coup itself, supporters of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan gather in Taksim Square as soldiers surround the Atatürk monument.
The ground shook in Italy in late August, and after the tremors stopped, the Lazio mountain village of Amatrice mostly disappeared. Here, a rescue worker walks through the rubble a week after the earthquake.
This is one of those photos that you can spend some time with. And in a year like this, it’s nice to see a look of pure joy on someone’s face — especially in Ukraine. What you’re seeing here is the rest period following “Pillow Battle 2016,” an organized pillow fight in downtown Kiev.
Over the summer, terrorism reared its destructive head back in France. As Bastille Day celebrations wrapped up in Nice, a white cargo truck barrelled down the road, mowing down hundreds of people (86 died) before the driver, Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel, a Tunisian resident of France, was stopped in a gun battle with authorities.
In October, the thousands of refugees camped out in Calais were informed they’d need to find a new home, however temporary. The thousands of people living in the “Jungle” were bussed out to 450 reception centers across the country and on the third day of its evacuation, tents and shacks were set ablaze, above.
Prince George may not have nailed international diplomacy (watch him rebuff Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s attempt at a handshake here), but he certainly seems to have the royal-on-holiday wardrobe down pat.
And it seems appropriate to wind up a look back at this year with an image that seems to capture the mixed emotions of so many of the world’s citizens: worry, uncertainty, vulnerability … and a faint glimmer of hope.
Tim Ball is creative director of POLITICO in Europe. 
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump has two words for President Barack Obama, who suggested his 2008 message of hope and change could land him a third term in the White House if he were constitutionally eligible: “NO WAY!”
“President Obama said that he thinks he would have won against me,” Trump tweeted Monday afternoon. “He should say that but I say NO WAY! — jobs leaving, ISIS, OCare, etc.”
Trump’s tweets come hours after the president — whose approval ratings this year have been some of the highest during his eight years in office — told David Axelrod, his former senior adviser, that the message from his 2008 campaign still resonates in 2016.
“I am confident in this vision because I’m confident that if I had run again and articulated it, I think I could’ve mobilized a majority of the American people to rally behind it,” Obama said on “The Axe Files” podcast published Monday morning.
“I know that in conversations that I’ve had with people around the country, even some people who disagreed with me, they would say the vision, the direction that you point towards is the right one.”
Despite trailing by nearly 3 million in the national popular vote, Trump defeated Hillary Clinton on Election Day, penetrating the so-called blue wall with victories in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan en route to clinching a majority of Electoral College votes.

Trump railed against Obama and Clinton’s policies on the campaign trail, telling supporters that Clinton was, in essence, running as an extension of the last eight years while portraying himself as the change agent who could shake up Washington and bring power back to the American people.
He has promised to repeal and replace Obamacare once he takes office, derided the two Democratic politicians as founders of the Islamic State and slammed them for having supported free trade policies like the Trans-Pacific Partnership and NAFTA.
Trump has been defensive regarding the election outcome, arguing that he could have won the popular vote if he wanted to and rejecting U.S. intelligence that Russia meddled in the presidential election, allegedly to boost his campaign.
But he has softened his rhetoric on Obama and Clinton, praising the president and even seeking his counsel during the transition, and reneging on his pledge to jail Clinton.
The French unemployment rate dropped significantly in the last two months, and will likely continue downward in the New Year, the Paris daily Le Figaro reported Monday.
The number of job seekers registered on the database of “Pole Emploi”, France’s unemployment office, decreased significantly at the end of September and October, a trend that “had happened only once since French President Francois Hollande took office in 2012,” the paper said.
According to Figaro, 106,800 unemployed people have found jobs since early 2016.
If the unemployment rate drops for another third month in November it would be the first time that has happened since February 2008, Le Figaro said. Official results from Pole Emploi will be published on Monday evening.
The decline in France’s unemployment rate comes only weeks after Hollande announced he would not seek re-election in the country’s presidential elections in May.
The declining jobless numbers come too late for the French president. Hollande had promised during his election campaign in 2012 that he wouldn’t run again if he didn’t reverse the trend of rising unemployment in France.
Travellers in the U.K. face rail delays and cancellations today as hundreds of planned engineering works take place across the country, leading operators to slash services.
Wales has been cleaved off the rail map entirely, with no services functioning. Meanwhile, scores of operators in the U.K.’s privatized franchise system are not putting on any trains in England.
Services in and out of London have been heavily reduced, while the service linking the capital with Heathrow airport has been suspended for six days up to December 29, according to the BBC.
Snow storms could also further reduce the services that are running in Scotland.
The Christmas period has long been used by rail operators as down-time to repair track and carry out maintenance, but the opposition Labour party has hammered the governing Tory party for not doing more to keep the network running.
“In opposition the Tories attacked the Boxing Day rail shutdown. They’ve now had more than six years to do something about it but haven’t … Their lack of action, even despite the chaos of previous years, gives the impression they don’t really care about it at all,” said Labour’s shadow Transport Secretary Andy McDonald.
The Department for Transport said it had worked with rail operators to put on limited services and find replacement routes over the Christmas period.
After creating a stir on social media with a Christmas message, Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer said Sunday that a reference to “a new King” was not intended to refer to President-elect Donald Trump.
“Christ is the King,” tweeted Spicer, who will be Trump’s press secretary. “He was born today so we could be saved. Its [sic] sad & disappointing you are politicizing such a holy day.”
Spicer’s tweet — and related remarks on CNN — followed several hours of angry back and forth on Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms over whether the RNC’s holiday message was suggesting the president-elect was a figure comparable to Jesus Christ.

This was the controversial passage: “Merry Christmas to all! Over two millennia ago, a new hope was born into the world, a savior who would offer the promise of salvation to all mankind. Just as the three wise men did on that night, this Christmas heralds a time to celebrate the good news of a new king.”
The RNC’s three-paragraph statement, issued in the name of Reince Priebus and Sharon Day, made no mention at all of Trump. But that didn’t stop folks from arguing over the statement — and possible notions of blasphemy.
ISTANBUL — At the beginning of December, Turkey’s president felt compelled to shift the focus of his speeches from the near-daily diatribes against political opponents, critics and terror to the economy. The Turkish lira, already unsteady after a year of domestic turmoil, was hitting a new record low every day.
The reasons for the national currency’s decline are not difficult to grasp: months of bombings, an attempted coup d’état, friction with the European Union and worsening repression have sent Turkey’s economy spiraling downward. After Donald Trump won the U.S. election, badly affecting emerging markets, the lira fared worse than even the Mexican peso.
Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, however, had a different view. “Someone,” he declared, “is trying to force this country to its knees by economic sabotage.” With the president’s words, the economic troubles became entangled in the narrative the government had pushed since this summer’s coup attempt — that shadowy powers were conspiring to bring Turkey down.
It’s such often bellicose rhetoric that has further raised investors’ doubt and European unease over Turkey. But much of it is intended for domestic consumption only: This tale of a nation under attack from sinister outside forces — be they terrorists, coup-plotters or the often-invoked “interest rate lobby” — casts Erdoğan as the only leader capable of defending Turkey, cementing his power.
This narrative also serves as the backbone to a dramatic shift in Ankara, helping replace Turkey’s century-old official ideology — Kemalism, named after Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of the modern republic — with an ideology shaped by and centered on Erdoğan.
“Kemalism was a guideline for the whole nation, as it was put. That era has, by and large, ended. People still give lip service to Atatürk. But the hegemony of Kemalism has ended,” said Turkish author and columnist Mustafa Akyol. “It’s being replaced by Erdoğanism.”
The face of Mustafa Kemal, whose honorific “Atatürk” translates to “father of the Turks,” adorns coins and lira notes, homes and offices, schools and public squares; it’s illegal to insult his memory. He defined the modern Turkish nation as secular and Westernised, abolishing the caliphate and replacing the Arabic alphabet with Latin letters, among a series of sweeping reforms.
Erdoğan has long held ambitions to supplant Atatürk as the country’s most revered leader, distancing himself from the founder’s ideals and emphasizing Turkey’s Ottoman and Islamic heritage over its more recent secular history.
Erdoğan, too, made consequential reforms over the years — transforming the economy, reducing the power of the military, granting long-denied political and cultural rights to the Kurdish minority — but his narrative lacked a founding myth that Turks could rally behind, a grand victory akin to Atatürk’s successful war of independence.
This changed on July 15 when Turks marched against tanks and defeated a military coup. The attempted putsch, Erdoğan seemed to understand, was “a gift from God,” the symbol-laden victory that would allow him to reshape the country.
The coup became a unifying force, at least before the sweeping sackings and arrests of regime opponents soured the mood. The images of flags, tanks, and martyrs were plastered across the pro- and anti-government media for weeks, the nation mourning its dead and celebrating the coup’s failure. Even the opposition rallied behind Erdoğan’s democratically-elected government.
“The national mythos that’s been created since July 15 is that this is the second war of independence,” said Asli Aydintasbas, a fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. “Erdoğan, his survival, the expansion of Turkey, the independence of Turkey — it’s merged into this national mythology.”
It’s the narrative that had been missing from Erdoğan’s ambitions for a “New Turkey,” his vision for a prosperous country with him as its executive president. Along with the notion of a “war of independence,” the Erdoğan ideology shares another strong similarity with Kemalism — its strong cult of personality.
There the similarities end. While Atatürk westernized Turkish society, Erdoğan views the West and its socio-economic order with suspicion. Erdoğan encourages Ottoman nostalgia, which Atatürk despised. And unlike Atatürk, who presided over a one-party system, Erdoğan does see his state as a multi-party democracy — albeit one without independent institutions, where winning the vote is all that’s needed to rule.
Islamism is a strong factor, too. The Kemalists, Turkey’s secular elite, long repressed overt expression of religion, for instance banning the wearing of religious insignia in public and forbidding headscarved women from entering universities. Erdoğan, who was briefly imprisoned in 1999 for reciting an Islamic poem, not only gave a voice to the country’s pious citizens when he came to power; he turned the tables and made them the ruling elite.
But besides the Islamic element, the Erdoğan ideology is not unique. “This idea of a strong leader taking the support of people who weren’t traditionally at the center of power, dethroning the elite, establishing control, making himself the embodiment of the nation — you see that elsewhere,” Akyol, the Turkish columnist, said. “It’s mainly a story of populism.”
And it’s popular in Turkey. After the coup, Erdoğan’s popularity level soared to new heights; he’s now confident that if a referendum on whether to establish an executive presidency and extend his powers is held soon, he would win comfortably. This month, the government put forward a proposal for a new constitution and suggested a plebiscite could be held the coming summer.
But the rhetoric has its side effects. For one, Erdoğan’s Ottoman nostalgia and disdain for the current world order occasionally takes on an aggressive nature: his laments about being forced to give up Ottoman lands have enraged neighbors like Greece and Iraq.
Investors aren’t impressed, either: Each time Erdoğan blames outside forces or high interest rates, the lira tumbles a little further. This tumultuous year may have raised the president to Atatürk-like levels in the minds of many Turks, but the floundering economy threatens Erdoğan’s success and possibly hold on power.
“Erdoğan’s popularity rests on several pillars — his ideology and Islam, but also because he raised the life standards of the ordinary Turk,” Akyol said. “His Achilles heel is the economy.”
The reality of covering politics is that photographs of the subjects at the center of the news aren’t often compelling. How many images of Jean-Claude Juncker kissing someone, or Angela Merkel grimacing, or Theresa May bowing for the Queen can one publication run before they become tiresome? It’s for that reason, and to tell more conceptual tales, that we often turn to illustrators for help.
Below you’ll find 15 of the most original illustrations to fill our pages this year, presented in chronological order. As you’ll see, styles run from delicately hand-drawn to boldly digital — and even one that involves baking. But the common thread that runs through them all is an artist’s smart visual take on the news. At the bottom of this page, please vote for your top three images. And click on any artist’s name to see more of their work.

“Our sacred right to blaspheme,” drawn for POLITICO by David Doran.
 

“Every lady a milady,” drawn for POLITICO by Thomas Pullin.
 

“Scotland’s Independence Day,” drawn for POLITICO by Will Barras.
 

“Belgium’s clawless terror hawk,” drawn for POLITICO by Peter Strain.
 

“How Brexit will change the world,” baked, styled and photographed for POLITICO by Christopher Boffoli/Big Appetites.
 

“The data lifecycle,” drawn for POLITICO by Celyn Brazier.
 

“Bloomberg vs. the banks,” drawn for POLITICO by Daniel Hertzberg.
 

“An ode to the night train,” drawn for POLITICO by Tom Clohosy Cole.
 

“Donald Trump, Germany’s disfavored son,” drawn for POLITICO by Tim McDonagh.
 

“François Hollande’s last, lonely months at the Élysée,” drawn for POLITICO by Patrik Svensson.
 

“Welcome to Agadez, the smuggling capital of Africa,” drawn for POLITICO by Eric Petersen.
 

“Germany swaps horsepower for software,” drawn for POLITICO by Armando Veve.
 

“The Leaning People of Italy,” drawn for POLITICO by David Doran, who illustrates a new topic in a recurring feature for us here.
 

“What if the terrorists won?” drawn for POLITICO by Brian Stauffer.
 

“The race for EU membership,” drawn for POLITICO by Tom Jay.
MADRID — Ask a pundit or politician here why Spain is saved from the right-wing populism sweeping across Europe and the answers stream forth. That Spaniards show empathy for foreigners derived from their own mass emigration in the ’60s; that it’s relatively easy to integrate new Latin American arrivals who speak Spanish and are Christian; and that the recent memory of fascism under Francisco Franco has inured the country to extremism.
This conventional wisdom may not survive the coming year.
While no far-right party has managed to get a single lawmaker into the national parliament or any of the 17 regional assemblies in the past three decades, Spain looks to be as fertile ground for right-wing populism as any other country in Europe. It just seems to be awaiting a charismatic leader to upset the established order.
Anti-immigration and anti-establishment sentiment — key factors driving the right-wing revival elsewhere — are at least as strong in Spain as the rest of Europe, according to research by Sonia Alonso and Cristóbal Rovira, who studied opinion polls across the Continent and found no meaningful differences.
“Spaniards are neither less nor more intolerant than people in other European countries,” said Rovira, a professor at Chile’s Diego Portales University.
Anti-immigrant sentiment has dropped down the table of Spaniards’ top concerns since it peaked about 10 years ago. Back in 2006, Spaniards felt that foreigners, who represented around 12 percent of the population at the time, constituted the biggest problem facing the country. Then came the economic crisis and bribery scandals in the main political parties, and ordinary Spaniards became preoccupied with unemployment and corruption.
Anti-establishment feelings have certainly grown as a result. And it’s not that there is no demand for a far-right party in Spain — it’s more a problem of what’s on offer, argue Alonso and Rovira.
Take the example of Vox. 
On June 20 this year, activists from the far-right party traveled to Gibraltar to unfurl a giant Spanish flag on the rock that gives the U.K. overseas territory off the southern coast of Spain its nickname. As an attempt to rally Spanish nationalists to the party, the operation failed. The party’s share of the vote, which reached 244,000 at the European Parliament elections in 2014, had tumbled to 58,000 votes in Spanish national elections in December 2015, and it fell further to 46,000 in the repeat elections six months later, just after the Gibraltar stunt.
Even so, Vox scored five times better than the next far-right party.
Spain’s fragmented far-right parties are largely driven by nostalgia for Franco and live up to the stereotype: a few thousand bickering extremists who gather to commemorate the dictator’s death carrying Francoist flags, doing the Nazi salute and singing the Falangists anthem “Cara al sol.” 
Few have tried to rebrand themselves like Marine Le Pen’s National Front in France or Geert Wilders’ Party for Freedom in the Netherlands, which has tried to shake off fascist stereotypes and broaden its appeal, focusing less on Nazi sympathies and more on the rejection of migrants, especially Muslims, in its homeland.
However, there are now signs that the Spanish far-right is catching on.
Santiago Abascal, the leader of Vox who spent five years as a regional lawmaker in Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s conservative Popular Party (PP), is critical of the trend among Spanish far-right parties to “focus only on the past.”
Founded in 2014, Vox at first tried to appeal to disenchanted conservatives and traditional, Catholic PP voters by proposing anti-abortion legislation and radical tax cuts, after Rajoy failed to deliver on his first-term promise to lower taxes. It took a tough line on the Catalan and Basques separatist movements and called for constitutional reforms that would scrap the autonomous powers that those regions already have.
After two unsuccessful years and two electoral failures, Abascal began looking to the National Front for inspiration. In November, he met with Louis Aliot, the French party’s number two, and began heating up his anti-immigrant rhetoric.
“There simply isn’t room for everyone,” he told POLITICO in an interview at the party’s Madrid headquarters.
Abascal isn’t the only one to have spotted a gap in the market. Hogar Social Madrid (Madrid Social Home, known by its initials HSM) draws inspiration from Golden Dawn in Greece. It has gotten attention by occupying public buildings, setting up a “Spaniards-only” soup kitchen and advocating a radical brand of anti-immigrant, anti-liberal patriotic welfare.
Many refuse to take the HSM seriously, as it is still just a 150-strong, unregistered association that has never competed in elections. But that hasn’t stopped its young, media-friendly leader Melisa Dominguez from making headlines and becoming the modern face of the far-right in Spain.
“We’re currently in the phase where we create the social fabric,” said Dominguez in the illegally occupied Madrid mansion the group has turned into its headquarters. Speaking with POLITICO after supervising food handouts for about 70 people, she said she sees a bigger role in Spanish politics for far-right movements like HSM.
If that is to happen, the right-wingers will not only have to overcome their own strategic shortcomings and stop the infighting. They must also cope with the biggest factor that limits their growth: the ruling Popular Party’s largely unchallenged hegemony among far-right Spaniards. It is estimated that more than 80 percent of people who describe themselves as far-right voted for Rajoy in the past two national elections.
The PP has links to Spain’s fascist past. The party’s founder, Manuel Fraga, was a minister under Franco and many other members of the early party leadership came from his regime. Today, however, the party is very similar to other mainstream center-right parties in Europe, making it similarly vulnerable to a challenge from right-wing populists.
“We need to acknowledge that the PP has played its hand well … and kept the whole space on the Right and extreme Right for itself,” said Josep Anglada, the fiercely anti-immigrant former leader of Plataforma per Catalunya (PxC). Under his leadership in 2011 the PxC won 67 seats in 40 local councils across the region of Catalonia, the biggest success of any such party in modern Spain. Anglada was ousted from the party in 2014.
For Rovira at Diego Portales University, the PP owes much of its success in maintaining the support of extremists while promoting moderate policies to the conflicting national identities in Spain, which have allowed the party to appeal to right-wingers’ firm belief in national unity and turn that into votes.
Unlike its main center-left rivals, the Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE), the PP has repeatedly been able to win national elections with little support in Catalonia and the Basque Country. That permits the conservatives to take stances that alienate many Catalans and Basques while giving them a decisive advantage among voters in central Spain. In 2006, for example, the PP mobilized citizens up and down the country to collect signatures rejecting a new estatut (or regional constitution) that had been approved by the Catalan parliament.
National unity is as important for far-right voters as tough policies on immigration, said Rovira, and the Socialists are widely seen as more likely to compromise with the separatists than the PP.
Another peculiarity of Spanish politics is that the secessionist push hasn’t thrown up successful examples of far-right regional parties like the Northern League in Italy or the Flemish party Vlaams Belang in Belgium. For reasons that have much to do with the fact that the Franco regime was so fiercely opposed to regional autonomy of any kind, the forces that champion Catalan and Basque identity range from the center Right to the radical Left.
Abascal of Vox points to another factor he says has helped the PP maintain its monopoly on the Right, despite the corruption cases and scandals in the party that have angered many of its supporters: The birth in 2014 and the subsequently meteoric rise of the far-left party Podemos. Led by the ponytailed university lecturer Pablo Iglesias, Podemos ranked first in some national polls before settling for a disappointing third in the last national elections.
“Many people in the street congratulated me, but said they voted for Rajoy because they were too afraid the ponytailed one could come to power,” said Abascal.
Podemos’ ability to channel much of the anti-establishment sentiment that arose from years of economic depression and record-high unemployment also explains the far-right’s struggle to make headway with voters. But Podemos voters tend to be young, educated urbanites who have little to do with the older and poorly educated rural and industrial workers who tend to swell the ranks of the far-right across Europe — suggesting there is still room for a charismatic, populist leader with a right-wing message.
“We can’t allow the far-left to monopolize the fight for social rights,” said Dominguez of HSM, who is one of the young people who aspires to that role.
BERLIN – Germany will continue to run random controls at its border with Austria beyond February of next year, according to German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière.
“I intend to extend controls … for many more months,” De Maizière told Bild am Sonntag newspaper. “Currently, I don’t anticipate an end to them.”
In the face of an influx of refugees, Germany was the first country within the EU’s open-border Schengen area to reintroduce controls at its southern border in September 2015.
Although the number of refugees has gone down significantly since then, the country has repeatedly extended those controls, most recently in November.
Following last Monday’s attack in Berlin, in which 12 were killed by an alleged Islamist terrorist, the incident reignited a discussion about open borders within Europe. Anis Amri, the prime suspect behind the attack, travelled from Germany to Italy via France, before being shot dead by police in Milan on Friday.
De Maizière added some specific measures to the promises made by German Chancellor Angela Merkel to toughen up security following the attack, saying Germany would accelerate the deportation of migrants who were denied asylum.
“Right at the beginning of next year, the national government and [Germany’s 16 federal] states will open a joint center to coordinate deportations,” De Maizière told Bild am Sonntag.
The Russian military plane carrying 92 people, among them around 64 members of a well-known army choir, that crashed into the Black Sea on its way to Syria was unlikely to have been brought down by a terror attack, authorities said Monday.
“As far as we know, the major versions do not include the terrorist attack, so we assume that the cause of the crash could be either technical malfunction or pilot error,” Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov, who is leading the investigation into the crash, said according to Russia’s TASS wire service. But he said authorities would not rule anything out until the investigation was concluded.
TASS reported that a total of 84 passengers and eight crew were on the Soviet-era three-engine “Tu-154” airliner when it disappeared from the radar.
The first 10 bodies and 86 body parts have been airlifted to Moscow, as a mass search involving thousands continues for the remaining victims and the plane’s black boxes.
The members of the Red Army Choir, also known as the Alexandrov Ensemble, were on their way to a Russian air base in Syria to entertain troops. Also on board were nine reporters from Russia’s Channel One, Zvezda and NTV networks, military servicemen, and the executive director of the Spravedlivaya Pomoshch charity Elizaveta Glinka, also known as Dr. Liza.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced on Sunday that the country would observe a national day of mourning on Monday in honor of the victims. Flags will fly at half-mast and cultural and entertainment activities will be canceled. Some television stations have also opted not to screen advertisements.
This story was updated to include new details.
President-elect Donald Trump announced Saturday he intends to dissolve his foundation, his latest move aimed at settling ethical conflicts that have already dogged the incoming administration.
“The Foundation has done enormous good works over the years in contributing millions of dollars to countless worthy groups, including supporting veterans, law enforcement officers and children,” Trump’s statement indicated. “However, to avoid even the appearance of any conflict with my role as President, I have decided to continue to pursue my strong interest in philanthropy in other ways.”
His statement, issued by his transition team’s communications office, indicated that he was asking his counsel to move forward on the process of dissolving the Donald J. Trump Foundation.
Trump’s statement continued: “I am very proud of the money that has been raised for many organizations in need, and I am also very proud of the fact that the Foundation has operated at essentially no cost for decades, with 100% of the money going to charity, but because I will be devoting so much time and energy to the Presidency and solving the many problems facing our country and the world, I don’t want to allow good work to be associated with a possible conflict of interest.”
The foundation, which was founded in April 1988, has been the source of controversy throughout Trump’s presidential campaign and the transition period after the election. Like many other aspects of his complicated business life, it has been fraught with potential conflicts of interest for someone stepping in to the most powerful position in the world.
Trump and a team of lawyers has been working since the election to untangle a wide range of conflicts tied to the president-elect’s domestic and international real estate, hotel and investment portfolio, a task complex enough that it forced a delay in his planned Dec. 15 press conference to unveil his strategy. Trump now is expected to roll out a plan before Inauguration Day that addresses a range of issues, including possible restrictions on how he communicates with his adult children tasked with running his company and how he could potentially return to the business when he’s no longer president.
In the meantime, Trump and his family have made a series of moves aimed at resolving some festering controversies. Business plans tied to properties and other deals in Azerbaijan, Brazil, Georgia and Saudi Arabia have been shuttered. Trump also has said he sold as much as $40 million in stock holdings back during the campaign, settled lawsuits alleging fraud at Trump University, and stood down on plans to build a controversial sea wall to protect his Ireland golf course. Eric Trump this week also said he’d stop directly raising funds for his charitable foundation.
The president-elect’s moves to cease charitable work is aimed at ramping down one ongoing source of controversy.
During the campaign, various journalists, including David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post, found evidence that the foundation had not necessarily fulfilled the functions it was set up to do — and that it did not always follow the strict rules set up for nonprofits. Particularly notable were instances when the foundation spent money on things it was not supposed to spend money on.
Foundation money had been used to settle legal disputes involving Trump himself, and it was noted that money had been donated to the campaign of Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi at the time Bondi was involved in an investigation of Trump University.
In September, New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced his office was investigating the foundation. Amy Spitalnick, Schneiderman’s press secretary, tweeted Saturday that the foundation “cannot legally dissolve until investigation complete.”
The Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a frequent critic of the president-elect, lauded the end of the foundation as “a necessary first step” but was dubious of the timing of the announcement.
“If Donald Trump truly wants to ‘drain the swamp’ and usher in a new level of respectability for the government, there are many serious issues that must be resolved and many business and financial interests that must be disclosed — and not just on Christmas Eve when most of America isn’t watching,” the organization said in a statement.
In 2014, according to the Foundation’s tax filing, it had revenue of $500,849 (almost entirely from contributions) and total assets of $1,273,895. The foundation has donated to a range of causes over its lifespan.
In the space of a year, Donald Trump went from late-night TV punchline to U.S. president-elect; Brexit from Nigel Farage’s pipe-dream to reality; and France, Belgium and Germany were shaken by horrific terror attacks.
We revisit the news events that shook Europe in 2016 in a look back at POLITICO’s most read stories of the year.
With conflict in the Middle East and Africa creating a massive humanitarian crisis, Europe has been inundated with refugees. That much we know. But, as Valerie Hudson points out, there’s been one crucial dimension that has gone relatively unnoticed: “Sex or, more technically, sex ratios.”
This list is dominated by Britain’s vote to leave the EU. The first story to make an appearance landed the day after the shock vote, with many people confused about what Brexit really meant. In an exercise in wishful thinking, UKIP’s Neil Hamilton assured Brits it was in the EU’s interest to grant the U.K. tariff-free access to the single market, no matter what happened on the free movement of people, something the remaining 27 countries have consistently ruled out.
Among the horror and political upheaval, there was football. POLITICO contributing editor Tunku Varadarajan captured the Euro 2016 fever in his series The Linesman. His final column charted the “drama, fortitude, pungency, perversity, stamina and determination” of Portugal’s 1-0 win over France in the final.
In his first, but by no means last, appearance on the most-read list, President-elect Donald Trump is uncharacteristically complimentary about Europe, but hazy on the detail. “Belgium is a beautiful city,” Trump said during a rally in Atlanta, Georgia — which was news to Belgium, which is a country, not a city. At least it’s better than the time Trump called Brussels a “hellhole.”
As the Brexit earthquake reverberated across Europe, tremors reached the other side of the Atlantic. In Washington, Benjamin Oreskes charted how the vote marked the final stage in America’s long, slow transition away from the U.K. and into the waiting arms of Mutti Merkel.
Leaving 711 members of the European Parliament off a list of the most powerful MEPs was always going to ruffle a few feathers. Playbook author Ryan Heath sorted the wheat from the … err … others, rating Parliament’s 40 top power brokers and troublemakers.
As Leavers promised Brits a painless Brexit, a French-led effort designed to elicit Bregret was under way. Nicholas Vinocur in Paris and Tara Palmeri in Brussels unveiled a push designed to make EU countries considering following Britain’s lead think twice. Leaders planned to lobby other countries to unwind all treaties and agreements binding the U.K. to the bloc quickly, withdrawing subsidies, re-evaluating trade relationships, denying British supervisory bodies EU recognition in areas like financial services, and establishing new immigration rules.
The man responsible for getting ex-British Prime Minister David Cameron on Tinder, his former special adviser Daniel Korski, took readers behind the scenes of the failed Remain campaign to explain where it all went wrong, in 8,000 words of glorious backroom detail.
For the second year running, POLITICO listed the 28 people shaping, shaking and stirring Europe, and once again it makes our most-read list. While last year we picked one standout person from each EU country, we cast the net wider for the class of 2017. Topping the ranking was London’s newly minted Muslim mayor, Sadiq Khan — Europe’s answer to Barack Obama and the antithesis of last year’s No. 1, Hungary’s Viktor Orbán.
Being on the periphery of the EU looking in isn’t easy — as Norway’s Prime Minister Erna Solberg knows only too well. Speaking to POLITICO a week before Brits voted to quit the bloc, Solberg had this premonition: “They won’t like it.”
Are you noticing a trend? For Europe, 2016 was the year of Brexit, and POLITICO covered the twists and turns in real time in our EU referendum live blog.
This portrait of the infamous Brussels suburb of Molenbeek was one of the most-read stories in 2015, and its popularity did not diminish with time. Anthropologist and war photographer Teun Voeten moved to Molenbeek a decade ago, believing the neighborhood was on an upward trajectory. Instead, Molenbeek became more intolerant, destitute and crime-ridden, before finally becoming Europe’s heart of darkness.
In April, POLITICO looked at who’s really in charge in Brussels in another of Ryan Heath’s love-’em-or-hate-’em power rankings. No prize for guessing who took the No. 1 spot: German Chancellor Angela Merkel was, in our estimation, without equal. But perhaps the most interesting thing about this list was how fortunes have changed — Britain’s former PM David Cameron, Italy’s ex-leader Matteo Renzi, France’s soon-to-be-former President François Hollande and Turkey’s ex-PM Ahmet Davutoğlu, Merkel’s peers near the top of the list, have all fallen.
In a dispatch from Oslo, Anca Gurzu reports on Norway’s moonshot project to capture carbon and store it underground. Hugely expensive and technologically difficult, Norway hopes that this project could transform its economy, much like the lunar program did in the U.S.
In the days following the EU referendum, Britain’s so-called 48 percent, grappling with the reality of being forcibly pulled out of the EU, entered the first stage of grief: denial. To whit, Tom McTague and Alex Spence presented six scenarios that could potentially stave off Brexit.
Back when the U.S. president-elect was merely a presidential hopeful, Nick Gass whittled down (and he had do a lot of whittling) this list of the worst things Trump has said. Almost all his top hits, from racist epithets to misogynistic diatribes, make the cut. Notably absent (because the footage had not been released at the time of publication) was Trump boasting that he could grope women because of his celebrity.
In the aftermath of the Brussels terror attacks, Dutch novelist and political commentator Leon de Winter tried to make sense of Europe’s terror epidemic, asking: “What did ‘we’ do to ‘them?'” His conclusion? “We opened up our cities, our houses, our wallets. And in our secular temples of progress — our metro stations and airports and theaters — their sons are killing themselves, and taking our sons and daughters with them.”
Offering the opposing view, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., the president of Waterkeeper Alliance, reckoned the root of Islamic animosity towards the West was thick, black gold. “In part because my father was murdered by an Arab, I’ve made an effort to understand the impact of U.S. policy in the Mideast,” Kennedy wrote. “As we focus on the rise of the Islamic State and search for the source of the savagery that took so many innocent lives in Paris and San Bernardino, we might want to look beyond the convenient explanations of religion and ideology. Instead we should examine the more complex rationales of history and oil.”
It was a story that sent a chill through Brussels’ Anglophone core: Danuta Hübner, the head of the European Parliament’s Constitutional Affairs Committee, warned that English, the EU’s lingua franca, would follow the U.K. out the door of the EU. But the panic was short-lived — a week later, God save(d) English.
The morning after learning Britain had voted Leave, we wondered how it all went so wrong for David Cameron. Tom McTague, Alex Spence and Edward-Isaac Dovere provided the definitive answer in POLITICO’s most-read piece of 2016. The behind-the-scenes deep-dive revealed a campaign spinning out of control in a mess of confused messages, a failed courtship of Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, and a dead-on-arrival deal with Brussels that Cameron couldn’t sell.
 
First published in Basler Zeitung, Switzerland, October 7, 2016 | By Vasco Gargalo
 
First published in The International New York Times, June 23, 2016 | By Chappatte
 
“And if we gave them a subscription to Charlie Hebdo, would that calm them down?” First published in Le Monde, France, January 4, 2016 | By Plantu
 
First published in The Economist, U.K., May 28, 2016 | By Kal
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, December 5, 2016 | By Tom Janssen
 
Putin to Assad: “One day, this will be all yours!” First published in Der Standard, Austria, October 11, 2016 | By Oliver Schopf
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, U.S., March 22, 2016 | By R.J. Matson
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, March 22, 2016 | By Joep Bertrams
 
First published in De Volkskrant, the Netherlands, March 23, 2016 | By Schot
 
First published in NZZ am Sonntag, Switzerland, January 18, 2016 | By Chappatte
 
“Don’t worry, you’ll be fine!” First published in Berliner Zeitung, Germany, January 25, 2016 | By Heiko Sakurai
 
Grave (with Polish Law and Justice party founder Jarosław Kaczyński leaning on it): “Polish Media.” Cameraman: “Smile!” First published on POLITICO.eu, Belgium, January 8, 2016 | By Rytis Daukantas
 
First published in The Economist, U.K., July 23, 2016 | By Kal
 
Manuel Valls and François Fillon: “When I think I had to implement this loser’s policies!” First published in L’Express, France, December 7, 2016 | By Plantu
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, October 6, 2016 | By Joep Bertrams
 
Sigmar Gabriel: “TTIP? I don’t see any TTIP!!” First published in Ruhr Nachrichten, Germany, September 20, 2016 | By Klaus Stuttmann
 
First published in Kleine Zeitung, Austria, November 19, 2016 | By Petar Pismestrovic
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, February 24, 2016 | By Tom Janssen
 
First published on POLITICO.eu, Belgium, June 2, 2016 | By Rytis Daukantas
 
First published on POLITICO.com, U.S., March 4, 2016 | By Matt Wuerker
 
First published in The Columbus Dispatch, U.S., April 7, 2016 | By Nate Beeler
 
First published in The Scranton Times-Tribune, U.S., August 31, 2016 | By John Cole
 
First published in The Buffalo News, U.S., August 11, 2016 | By Adam Zyglis
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, Bulgaria, November 9, 2016 | By Christo Komarnitski
 
First published in The Columbus Dispatch, U.S., November 30, 2016 | By Nate Beeler
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, October 14, 2016 | By Joep Bertrams
 
First published in Salt Lake Tribune, U.S., December 1, 2016 | By Pat Bagley
 
First published on POLITICO.com, U.S., November 5, 2016 | By Matt Wuerker
 
The United States on Friday abstained as the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution — vigorously opposed by President-elect Donald Trump — that criticizes Israeli settlement construction in land claimed by Palestinians.
The measure — the first the Security Council has adopted on Israel and Palestine in roughly eight years — has been the subject of much furor for Trump, the Obama administration, and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
The Obama administration earlier on Friday furiously pushed back against allegations by anonymous Israeli officials that it has been promoting the U.N. resolution.
Israel, backed by Trump, had demanded that President Barack Obama’s government veto the measure. The issue is especially sensitive because Obama’s relations with Israel have long been strained.
Ahead of the potential Friday vote, a senior Obama administration official denied media reports citing Israeli claims that the U.S. was orchestrating the resolution and by implication betraying its longtime ally. The official did not indicate whether the administration, which in the past has vetoed similar measures, would do so this time or simply abstain from the vote.
“To be clear: from the start, this was an Egyptian resolution. The Egyptians authored it, circulated it, and submitted it for a vote on Wednesday evening before asking for a delay and subsequently removing their sponsorship,” the official said in a statement. “A group of other Security Council members, not including the United States, is now moving forward the Egyptian text.”
The official went on: “Contrary to some claims, the administration was not involved in formulating the resolution nor have we promoted it. We have not communicated to any U.N. Security Council members how the United States would vote if the resolution comes before the U.N. Security Council.”
Several Democratic and Republican lawmakers had urged the Obama administration to veto the resolution, which they say is unfair to Israel and will undermine the long-stalled peace process between the Israelis and Palestinians even more. Trump’s decision to weigh in was notable because he has yet to take office and during transition periods such issues are typically left to the discretion of the serving president.
Obama and his aides have long decried Israel’s construction of settlements in the West Bank and other areas, arguing they undermine promises that the Palestinians will be allowed to one day have their own country. Some pro-Israel observers worry that the president could allow the resolution to pass this time as a parting shot at Netanyahu, with whom he has chilly relations.
But Obama also has been largely consistent in protecting Israel from being targeted at the United Nations. He also helped push through a massive military aid package to Israel in recent months, another sign of his long-stated commitment to the security of the Jewish-majority state.
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) on Friday had renewed his call for the U.S. to veto the resolution, saying that Congress and the Trump administration should cut off funds to the Palestinian Authority if it passed.
“This is an anti-semitic, anti-Jewish, anti-Israel resolution. If this resolution passes, Congress and President-elect Trump should cut all foreign aid to the Palestinian Authority,” Zeldin, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, said in a statement.
President-elect Donald Trump is alarming critics by not only threatening to dispatch with political correctness but also disregarding the basic tenets of world order surrounding nuclear weapons.
With a single tweet Thursday and then a follow-up chat with a television broadcaster on Friday, Trump entered the holiday weekend shaking up global affairs by stating an interest in vastly expanding the U.S. nuclear arsenal, even if it means restarting an arms race with Russia.
While Trump’s statements so far lack much by way of detail, his staff have tried to walk them back, and he also hasn’t said how he’d get a Republican-controlled Congress to go along with him. The president-elect has nonetheless alarmed skeptics who warn of a possible major reversal ahead on decades-old U.S. nonproliferation policy.
“This form of nuclear saber rattling could represent the most dangerous turn in global nuclear weapons policy since the end of the Cold War,” said John Tierney, a former Massachusetts Democratic congressman now serving as executive director at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation.
Tierney called on Trump to “immediately disavow his own statement for the sake of U.S. and international security.”
Trump’s top staffers have been trying to parse their boss’s remarks since his initial tweet Thursday afternoon stating the U.S. “must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes.”
Kellyanne Conway, the incoming White House counselor, said during an MSNBC appearance Thursday night that Trump was “not making policy on Twitter” and she tried to clarify that he was talking about modernizing the nuclear arsenal, rather than increasing its size.
Team Trump did try to tamp down some of the controversy later Friday by releasing a two-week old holiday letter from Russian President Vladimir Putin that described U.S.-Russian relations as an “important factor in ensuring stability and security of the modern world.”
But Trump in an accompanying statement also included a warning: “I hope both sides are able to live up to these thoughts, and we do not have to travel an alternate path.”
Putin also has helped kindle the controversy. Earlier this week, he said Russia would “need to strengthen the military potential of strategic nuclear forces, especially with missile complexes that can reliably penetrate any existing and prospective missile defense system.”
But on Friday Putin said during his annual news conference that Russia wasn’t interested in a nuclear arms race.
Taken together, the Trump and Putin statements have left many nuclear experts scratching their heads, and for good reason. After all, the 2016 presidential campaign did conclude with U.S. intelligence agencies blaming Putin’s government for carrying out cyberespionage against Democrats with a goal of helping Trump win the election.
Many experts raising alarm over a possible Cold War redux say that it’s especially troubling to have the chaos happen before Trump takes office, and to be inflamed by a social media feed that the Republican used to such great effect during his campaign.
In addition, they fret that the strategy Trump used with considerable success on the campaign trail of shaking up traditional norms can have real-world consequences when inserted into something as multi-dimensional as foreign policy and nuclear weapons.
“It’s a message to the other countries to start their engines,” Joseph Cirincione, president of the global security foundation’s Ploughshares Fund, told MSNBC on Friday.
Jim Walsh, an MIT international security expert, said Trump doesn’t “understand that these pronouncements have unsettling implications for our allies, the nonproliferation regime and for American treaty commitments.”
“Using Twitter to blurt out ill-conceived changes to U.S. nuclear weapons doctrine is unwise if not downright dangerous,” he added.
Democrats tracking the Trump nuclear flap said they’re not surprised by the latest wrinkle. “Don’t write this off as just Trump being Trump – he has been consistent about his desire for more nukes in the world,” the Democratic National Committee said in a press release drawing attention to Trump’s 2016 campaign statements where he declared an interest in using nuclear weapons and also in seeing their development by U.S. allies, including South Korea, Japan and Saudi Arabia.
So far, Republican leaders including Speaker Paul Ryan, House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce and Senate Foreign Relation Chairman Bob Corker have stayed silent on Trump’s comments about the nuclear arsenal, even as they have weighed in via Twitter to echo Trump’s call for a U.S. veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution that was adopted Friday afternoon condemning Israeli settlements and ongoing construction in Palestinian territory.
But a spokeswoman for GOP Rep. Kevin Cramer, an early Trump supporter, said the North Dakota congressman discussed modernizing the nation’s nuclear arsenal during a visit earlier this month with the president-elect at Trump Tower. There, the Republican lawmaker shared a paper he’d written suggesting the new administration kick start in early 2017 a domestic nuclear enrichment facility that under current planning isn’t expected to break ground for eight more years.
“Such a commitment would re-establish America as the world leader in uranium enrichment technology, fully support U.S. nonproliferation initiatives, save multiple billions in appropriated funding over the life of the program, lessen dependence on foreign enrichers and create thousands of high-paying, high-quality construction, manufacturing and nuclear operating jobs in the near and intermediate term,” Cramer wrote.
Retiring Wisconsin GOP Rep. Reid Ribble told POLITICO that Trump would likely be out of step with a bipartisan core of lawmakers when it comes to expanding the U.S. nuclear arsenal.
“The general consensus among my colleagues in Congress is that the world is safer with fewer nuclear weapons than more,” he said. “I’m not sure what in the world he was thinking with that tweet. But I often think that way about his tweets.”
A frequent Trump critic, Ribble said he was “concerned” by the potential escalation implications from the president-elect’s remarks, though he also predicted they’d get more tempered in the weeks and months after Inauguration Day.
“Once his secretary of State is confirmed and things start to settle in and he’s taking more of his foreign policy briefings from State Department experts and given more of the global history and relationships, it’ll become a bit more sobering for him,” Ribble said.
The number of migrants who have died crossing the Mediterranean in 2016 is the highest ever recorded, the United Nations Refugee Agency said in a statement Friday.
About 100 people are believe to have drowned in the Mediterranean Thursday, bringing the number of casualties to over 5,000 this year, compared to 3,771 in 2015.
The new figures mark the “worst annual death toll ever seen,” UNHCR spokesperson William Spindler said at a press briefing in Geneva Friday.
The increase in deaths on the Mediterranean this year appears to be a result of the declining quality of the vessels used by people smugglers, the UNHCR said. Smugglers also tend to launch large numbers of vessels simultaneously, making the work of rescuers more difficult.

On average, 14 people have died every day attempting to cross the Mediterranean in 2016, the U.N. found, noting that it was the highest number ever recorded and a “devastating milestone.”
President-elect Donald Trump on Friday released a holiday letter he received from Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying he hopes the U.S. and Russia will be able to “live up to” the overtures expressed by Putin and that “we do not have to travel an alternate path.”
Putin’s letter, dated December 15, expresses desire for greater cooperation between the two countries, which have experience strained relations, especially after Russia’s incursion into Ukraine and allegations of Russian hacking on Democratic Party targets.
“Serious global and regional challenges, which our countries have to face in recent years, show that the relations between Russia and the U.S. remain an important factor in ensuring stability and security of the modern world,” Putin wrote. “I hope that after you assume the position of President of the United States of America we will be able – by acting in a constructive and pragmatic manner – to take real steps to restore the framework of bilateral cooperation in different areas as well as bring our level of collaboration on the international scene to a qualitatively new level.”
Putin signed the letter “V.Putin.” He also included a holiday message and asked Trump, “Please accept my sincere wishes to you and your family of sound health, happiness, wellbeing, success and all the best.”
Trump, in releasing the letter from nearly two weeks ago, said the Russian president’s sentiments are “so correct.”
“A very nice letter from Vladimir Putin; his thoughts are so correct. I hope both sides are able to live up to these thoughts, and we do not have to travel an alternate path,” Trump said.
Trump has long been criticized for being too cozy with the Russian leader, while the Obama administration has accused the Russian government of meddling in the U.S. election by hacking Democratic targets. The CIA has gone further, assessing that the Kremlin was explicitly trying to tip the election in Trump’s favor.
The release of the letter comes as Trump is embroiled in controversy over his pledge to “greatly strengthen and expand” the United States’ nuclear capability. He also appeared to be cavalier in his comments that fly in the face of longstanding U.S. nonproliferation policy, saying on Friday morning, “Let it be an arms race.”
Putin this week also called on his country to “strengthen” its nuclear forces. “We need to strengthen the military potential of strategic nuclear forces, especially with missile complexes that can reliably penetrate any existing and prospective missile defense systems,” he said earlier this week, according to multiple news reports.
But Putin at an annual news conference on Friday said Russia has no interest in a nuclear arms race and seemed to normalize Trump’s statements, calling his tweet unsurprising.
“Of course the U.S. has more missiles, submarines and aircraft carriers, but what we say is that we are stronger than any aggressor, and this is the case,” Putin said, adding, “As for Donald Trump, there is nothing new about it, during his elections campaign he said the U.S. needs to bolster its nuclear capabilities and its armed forces in general.”
At the news conference, Putin also said he hoped to have a productive relationship with Trump. “Nobody believed he would win except for us,” he said.
And he cast Democrats in the U.S. as sore losers. “They are losing on all fronts and looking elsewhere for things to blame. In my view this, how shall I say it, degrades their own dignity,” Putin said. “You have to know how to lose with dignity.”
BERLIN — Just hours after Anis Amri, the suspect in the Christmas market attack in Berlin, was killed in a shootout with authorities in Milan, Chancellor Angela Merkel faced up to German security agencies’ failure to prevent the massacre.
“We will press ahead with examining whether certain state measures need to be changed,” Merkel said in a press conference on Friday. “The Amri case raises lots of questions. Not only questions about the deed but also about the time leading up to it ever since he arrived in Germany.”
Amri, a Tunisian, arrived in Germany in July 2015 and was denied asylum a year later but wasn’t deported, despite having spent four years in an Italian prison, raising questions about the efficiency and lack of coordination between Germany’s many security agencies.
German security services have identified as many as 550 people as willing and able to commit terrorist attacks, so-called Gefährder, which roughly translates as “individuals likely to endanger public safety.”
That number is 110 higher than last year, but whether that’s because more people are being radicalized, or authorities are getting better at finding them, is unclear.
After finding Amri’s identification card inside the truck used in the attack, authorities “quickly determined that he is an Islamist Gefährder,” Holger Münch, chief of the Federal Criminal Office (BKA), told journalists.
Around half of the so-called Gefährder are not currently in Germany, and roughly 80 are behind bars, leaving almost 200 at large in the country, the Interior Ministry confirmed to POLITICO.
A spokesperson for the ministry confirmed the numbers but said it could not provide further details about whether authorities are monitoring the suspects. “‘At large’ is your choice of words,” he said.
The fact that Amri was killed by authorities “unfortunately doesn’t change the terrorist threat in Germany,” Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said on Friday. “It remains high.”
When it comes to monitoring suspects, authorities are partly hamstrung by stringent privacy laws as well as the logistical challenge of observing hundreds of people around the clock in disparate locations.
Furthermore, many of the Gefährder known to authorities may never have committed a crime. Instead, authorities have been alerted to them because of suspicious behavior, such as expressing extremists views in internet forums, or having traveled to destinations in Syria or Iraq or elsewhere.
Given the privacy laws, German law enforcement can only put people under surveillance for a limited amount of time before they have to go back to court to get approval again for the surveillance.
In the case of Amri, authorities observed him for months, according to Berlin’s state prosecutor. However, this surveillance was terminated in September, after previous observations had not yielded enough evidence to continue it, according to media reports.
But the logistical constraints are also an issue.
Sebastian Fiedler, the deputy chief of Germany’s Criminal Police Union (BDK), told the news website Tagesschau.de that in order to observe one person around the clock, roughly 40 police officials are necessary, making it “virtually impossible” to observe all Gefährder in the country with the available resources.
“In the state of North Rhine-Westphalia alone, we are talking about around 200 people,” Fiedler said. To observe them around the clock, “we would need about 8,000 police officers, which is more than a third of all officers in the state.”
Nevertheless, as more and more apparent flaws in monitoring the suspected perpetrator of Monday’s attack are emerging, Merkel and de Maizière appear willing to reassess security regulations.
On Friday, a spokesperson for the German justice ministry confirmed that they were drafting a regulation for electronic ankle bracelets for suspects who have previously been convicted.
“In these times of great challenges we will do everything possible for our state to be a strong state,” Merkel said.
At the same time, she stressed that any toughening up of security measures would not happen at the expense of democratic values and civil liberties.
“Our democracy, our state is based on the rule of law,” she said. “Our values and our humanity are the alternatives to the hateful world of terrorism, and they will be stronger than terrorism.”
Anis Amri, the 24-year-old suspect in the Berlin terror attack, was part of an Islamic State network organized around radical preacher Abu Walaa, CNN reported Friday.
Walaa, also known as “the preacher without a face,” had built what German prosecutors called a “nationwide network of Salafi-jihadi indoctrinators, which are closely interlinked and act in a work-sharing manner,” according to information contained in 345 pages of investigative files obtained by CNN.
Walaa and four other leading figures in the network were arrested in November and charged with terrorism offenses.
Recruitment efforts were based in the states of North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony, and raised funds through robberies and fraudulent loans, according to the U.S. media giant.
According to the investigative files, Amri participated in physical training to prepare to join ISIL militants in the Middle East in late 2015. It is unclear why he did not leave the country.
Amri started discussing plans to launch an attack in Germany soon after his travel plans fell through, according to an informant cited in the files. The network reportedly gave Amri a place to hide.
Other members had discussed driving a truck full of gasoline and a bomb into a crowd, according to the files.
The 24-year-old Tunisian was killed by Italian police in Milan early Friday morning.
On Friday, Islamic State released a video reportedly showing Amri pledging allegiance to ISIL leader Abu-Bakr al-Baghdadi. He does not make any reference to the Christmas market attack.
The video from the group’s news agency Amaq is dated December 23 and identifies Amri as “Abu-al-Bara al-Tunisi,” saying he was “a soldier of the Islamic State.”
Speaking in Arabic, the man identified as Amri tells “crusaders who bomb Muslims every day” that “we have come to slaughter you.”
British Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is ready to fight an early election if Theresa May decides to go to the polls.
In an interview with the Independent published Friday, Corbyn said he will ask his MPs to back an general election earlier than the scheduled date of 2020.
“If she [May] calls an election, she calls an election,” Corbyn said. “We’re ready for it. We’ve got more members than we’ve ever had before, we’ve paid off all our debts to the party, we don’t have any mortgages, we are in a very strong, organized position.”
May in November said she did not intend to hold a general election before 2020, but some MPs from her Conservative Party want her to call a snap election to reassert her authority since taking over as prime minister following the June referendum on Britain’s EU membership.
Corbyn said his team will focus on overcoming the anti-establishment forces in the country following the U.K.’s vote to leave the European Union and the U.S. election result.
After Donald Trump’s win, Labour issued a statement saying that the president-elect’s solutions are “clearly wrong” but Shadow Foreign Secretary Emily Thornberry later said that while Trump and Corbyn had very different values there were also “similarities” between them.
However, Corbyn said any similarities are hard to find. “The differences are easier to identify.”
“I look around the Shadow Cabinet we have and I don’t see any trillionaires, or millionaires, I see hard-working people trying to present politics in a good way,” Corbyn said.
Corbyn also accused Trump of blaming “Muslims and Mexicans and women for the problems in society.”
Queen Elizabeth was left “disappointed” after U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s did not give her a private briefing on the government’s Brexit plans during a visit to Balmoral Castle in September, the Times reported Friday.
May stayed at the royal family residence in Scotland as part of an annual prime ministerial visit two months after she took over from David Cameron.
According to the Times, the Queen was hoping May would provide some insight on her plans including her cabinet selection.
There is no suggestion the Queen and May do not get along on a personal level, the Times said.
The Belgian federal prosecutor told newspaper De Tijd in an interview published Friday that cell phone data linked to the Paris attacks investigation can no longer be accessed because Belgian law mandates it be deleted after 12 months for privacy reasons.
Frédéric Van Leeuw said there is still new information to be uncovered on the cell phones used to plan last year’s Paris attacks, and called upon the government to resolve the situation.
“The judicial powers [in Belgium] are independent,” Van Leeuw said. “This means that it should have access to sensitive information, precisely to protect the privacy of everyone.”
The November 13, 2015 Paris attacks were planned largely from Brussels.
CORK, Ireland — The Irish government’s unwavering protection of Apple has infuriated the very people who stand to gain the most.
The residents of Cork are souring on the tech giant — the city’s biggest employer — and fanning the flames of Euroskepticism.
The European Commission slapped Apple with a €13 billion penalty for allegedly accepting a sweetheart tax deal from Ireland earlier this year. Cork residents resent Dublin’s unwavering defense of the tech giant, most recently its support of the company’s appeal Monday that claimed the EU Commission overstepped its powers. Instead of banking an amount roughly the size of the country’s annual health budget, Irish leaders recoiled at the order and defended its four-decade-long relationship with Apple.
“It’s like ordering a drink and then paying someone else’s tab. A lot of people will be soured by it and then there’ll be a backlash,” said Evan Prendergast, a chef at the city’s English Market.
Apple has been a lifeline for many in a city where the suicide rate is twice the national average and the economy continues to be weak, though the recovery appears to be happening faster than the rest of the country in part because of the tech industry. Apple’s workforce in the city swelled from a few hundred employees in the early 1980s to more than 4,000 today. There’ll be more work in 2018 when a new facility opens in the center of a scrappy housing estate. It’s one of three Apple locations in the city but the only one with wild horses grazing nearby.
Though Apple employs more than 4,000 people in a city of 125,000, many locals are appalled that the company hasn’t contributed more to the local economy through taxes. Apple paid an effective corporate tax rate of 1 percent on its European profits in 2003. That slid to 0.005 percent in 2014, vastly lower than Ireland’s corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent, according to the European Commission.
“Any company that takes that sort of money has taken from hospitals and schools,” said James Hallinan, who works at a Starbucks in Cork.
Ireland’s corporate tax rate is already the lowest in the EU — giving the country an unfair advantage, according to the Commission. On Monday, Apple filed its appeal just hours before the Commission published a 130-page document explaining its August ruling over the company. Many are critical that the government in Dublin would shield the tech company, rather than claw back the taxes as European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager says it should.
Ireland refuted allegations of preferential behavior. “The full amount of tax was paid in this case and no state aid was provided.”
Apple referred POLITICO to a statement saying that the company is the largest taxpayer in the world, the U.S. and Ireland.
Brussels insists that two of Ireland’s tax agreements with the company amounted to illegal state aid because they were not available to all companies — something refuted by Ireland. “The full amount of tax was paid in this case and no state aid was provided,” the government has said.
“People see the EU as a group of bankers, un-elected bankers,” Hallinan said.
Ireland historically has had one of the highest levels of public support for the EU among member countries.
But even if 61 percent prefer to retain the existing relationship with the EU over a breakaway deal with the U.K., almost four in 10 Irish people would choose open borders and free trade with the U.K. over the EU, according to an October poll.
So far, however, there has been no figure for Euroskeptics to rally around. There is no Irish Nigel Farage, the architect of Britain’s exit from the EU, or a Guinness-swilling version of Beppe Grillo, who founded Italy’s anti-establishment 5star movement.
It could be a matter of time.
Anger over the European Central Bank-mandated €67.5 billion financial bailout in 2008 still lingers. Many are adamant that investors who owned Irish debt should have swallowed their losses when Ireland swung from an economic Celtic tiger to financial basket case. “There was a sharp decline in support for and trust in the EU among Irish citizens over the course of the financial crisis,” said Rory Costello, a politics lecturer at the University of Limerick.
Fine Gael, the party of Prime Minister Enda Kenny, competes with Fianna Fáil. Both are broadly centrist parties and have batted away protest parties in this year’s election.
“It’s possible under proportional representation to get a one-issue candidate, but Ireland is essentially a two-party country,” said Wyon Stansfeld, who owns a toy shop called Pinocchio’s. “There’s no charismatic figure on the fringes to support.”
However, Sinn Féin, which holds three Irish seats in the European Parliament, has gradually added to its base to become the third-largest party, partly on an anti-EU platform with party leader Gerry Adams accusing the European Central Bank of disrespecting national sovereignty.
“The EU is bullying Ireland,” said Matt Carthy, a Sinn Féin MEP.  “Most Irish people don’t want to leave. But they want a fundamental change in direction and some return of power.”
The EU’s Apple intervention comes at a trying time for Ireland, which is already being affected by its neighbor’s decision to leave the European Union. As much as 16 percent of its exports go to the U.K., much of it in the form of poultry and cheddar cheese.
To cushion farmers against the currency fluctuations that have affected trade since the Brexit vote in June, they will get a €150 million loan. Already, there are reports of farms closing down since the vote, including at least five mushroom farms.
The government in Dublin is an awkward position. A €13 billion windfall would buffer some of the effects of Brexit but squash overseas investment from Apple and other multinationals. Without foreign cash, jobs will disappear.
“Irish politicians may well find themselves subject to this populist backlash as they try to negotiate tough new pay deals with public sector unions … and have the €13 billion Apple ruling thrown back in their faces,” a recent editorial in the Irish Independent proclaimed.
Euroskeptic forces may have hoped that outrage over the Apple case might lead to an Irish exit. But it seems unlikely at this point given that part of Ireland’s attraction to Apple and other American companies is the access to the European single market.
Instead, people are left cursing everyone involved.
“Morally, the tax issue is wrong,” said Rosarie Lapierre, who works in a shoe store. She added that she no longer had faith in any institution. “The politicians are cut from the same cloth as business. They are on the gravy train.”
This article has been updated to note that the claim that Apple is paying a low tax rate has been made by the European Commission. 
Is Romania Europe’s last, great bastion of progressive politics?
Well, this week the land better known for Dracula and corruption took a step closer to having not just a woman but a Muslim woman as prime minister. Sevil Shhaideh would lead the increasingly rare government in Europe controlled by the Left, which won this month’s parliamentary elections. Oh, and this ethnic Tatar is married to a Syrian.
President Klaus Iohannis — incidentally, a German Lutheran in an overwhelmingly Christian Orthodox Balkan nation — on Thursday said he’d formally nominate a new prime minister after the Christmas break.
So far, the image of progressivism. And that’s where it ends.
The circumstances of Shhaideh’s nomination are particular, if perhaps not for Romania. Shhaideh — a member of the 20,000-strong ethnic Tatar minority from close to the coastal town of Constanța in the southeast — is a close ally of her Social Democrat party leader Liviu Dragnea, picked to serve loyally in his place
Dragnea can’t take the job himself for legal reasons. He’s carrying a two-year suspended jail sentence handed down in April for attempting to rig a referendum. There’s no pretense on his part that Shhaideh is anything more than a stand in. “I am sending a strong message to all Romanians, through this proposal, that I assume the full responsibility for the government activity and for applying the governing program,” he said in announcing Shhaideh’s nomination Wednesday.
Even Jarosław Kaczyński, who runs Poland from behind the scenes, doesn’t talk that way in public about Beata Szydło, the woman whom he picked to be prime minister last year.
Dragnea and Shhaideh have known each other for 15 years and worked together most recently at the ministry of regional development, where she was his deputy and then his successor as a regional development minister. Shhaideh’s stint at the ministry, from 2012 to 2015, didn’t make the 52-year-old a household figure. Journalists struggled to pronounce her name after Wednesday’s announcement.
Shhaideh’s lack of profile appears to have been an asset for Dragnea, who said he didn’t want a government of VIPs, but someone he could fully trust.
“I don’t think she was nominated because she is a woman and a Muslim,” said Paul Ivan, senior policy analyst at the European Policy Centre in Brussels. “He needed a replacement and I think that was obvious in his announcement.”
Shhaideh spent most of her career in Constanța, working for the county council, where she started as a director of information systems in 1993. By the time she left, in 2012, she was director general for projects, managing EU cash for the local area. During that time Shhaideh was close to another PSD strongman, Nicuşor Constantinescu, who led Constanța County Council for a decade. He is now in jail after receiving a 15-year sentence for corruption.
Constantinescu and Dragnea were witnesses at Shhaideh’s marriage in 2011 to Akram Shhaideh, an agriculture specialist from Syria. He moved to Romania after spending most of his professional life at the Syrian agriculture ministry. He found work as a consultant for the Romanian agriculture ministry, helping boost Romanian livestock exports to the Middle East and the Arab world, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Akram Shhaideh has expressed support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, according to the investigative journalists at RiseProject.
Sevil Shhaideh’s nomination was always going to be criticized by the PSD’s political opponents, who saw it as Dragnea’s attempt to be prime minister by proxy. Some PSD supporters were also dismayed.
Though a party of the Left, the PSD campaigned on a conservative, nationalistic and pro-Christian Orthodox platform. The inconsistency was pointed out in comments on Dragnea’s Facebook page. “Along came Sevil, who’s an absolute Romanian … big hypocrisy, Mr. Dragnea,” was just one.
“It’s definitely a move that is not in line with the PSD rhetoric during the campaign and that does not please some of the PSD voters,” Ivan of the European Policy Center said.
When confronted by a journalist on the issue in a press conference on Wednesday, Dragnea grew annoyed, saying that Shhaideh is a Romanian citizen with the same rights as all others.
Romania’s Tatar community is small and mainly concentrated in the region of Constanța, where it has been based for centuries. But the Tatars’ age-old reputation for marauding did not escape the attention of satirical media outlets. “In front of his colleagues, the PSD boss spoke about Tatars’ vast expertise in robbing and plundering, praising them for the devastation they caused in the … 13th century,” wrote the Times New Roman portal.
Former President Traian Băsescu, who hails from the same region as Shhaideh, said his contacts in the Tatar community had only words of praise for the prime ministerial nominee. “You have an impeccable reputation. Don’t be part of a political game that is not yours,” he wrote on his Facebook page.
“If we look only at the gender and religious aspect, [her nomination] is definitely a step forward,” said Ivan.
Antonio Tajani, the main conservative candidate for president of the European Parliament, reached out to the Euroskeptic 5Star movement for support ahead of January’s election, according to several sources in the Parliament.
Tajani’s move risks breaking a longstanding arrangement in which his European People’s Party and its main rival, the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, use tactical voting to block Euroskeptic candidates from securing leadership positions in the Parliament.
The coming contest on January 17 is more open than previous presidential elections. While the mainstream parties usually reach a deal in order to appoint a presidential candidate, the EPP and S&D are likely to compete against each other in the race to succeed departing President Martin Schulz.
Tajani, an Italian who last week won an election to be the EPP’s pick for president, met with Piernicola Pedicini, the 5Star’s choice for the presidency, as well as other MEPs from Italy’s largest opposition party, Pedicini told POLITICO.
“Tajani got in touch with us, and we appreciated it,” Pedicini said.
The 17 5Star MEPs are expected to back Pedicini in the first round of next month’s presidential election, but sources say that if Pedicini is knocked out of the race — which is very likely — they could switch their allegiance to Tajani.
The 5Star MEPs are part of the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy group, which also includes Nigel Farage’s UKIP and is widely viewed by the Brussels establishment as a marginal, populist force.
EPP leader Manfred Weber last week wrote to colleagues calling for “consensus” against “those who want to damage Europe.”
Gianni Pittella, leader of the Socialist bloc in the European Parliament, secured the S&D’s nomination. By declaring his candidacy, Pittella broke a 2014 power-sharing agreement that called for the presidency to pass from the S&D, the second-largest group in Parliament, to the center-right EPP in 2017. Pittella also announced that he would end the current coalition between the main center-right and center-left groups of MEPs, further widening the gap with its rival EPP group.
Since there is no clear majority in the European parliament, Tajani, a former spokesman for Silvio Berlusconi, will need to find support from a wide range of MEPs, including the European Conservatives and Reformists, the liberal ALDE party and even more populist parties if he is to win the race to replace Schulz.
“The two populist parties could turn out to be key in determining the outcome of this election,” said Giovanni La Via, an Italian member of the EPP and Chairman of the Environment Committee. “I think what Tajani has done is simply electoral campaigning as every other candidate is doing.”
Others are more critical of Tajani’s decision to engage Euroskeptics.
“I think it is a problem to seek votes from a group such as the EFDD who promotes racism, xenophobia and nationalism,” said Isabelle Thomas, a French member of the S&D, adding however that the 5Star movement was “different.”
In January, the Parliament will also fill all other leadership positions, including vice presidents and committee chairs. The positions are filled using the D’Hondt system, a mathematical formula which aims to distribute seats in the most proportional way.
According to the system, the EFDD and the Europe of Nations and Freedom group — home to Marine Le Pen and her National Front — are entitled to fill some positions. Several MEPs said they would resort to tactical voting to ensure this does not happen.
Mainstream parties have repeatedly resorted to tactical voting, notably in 2014 when the 5Stars’ Fabio Castaldo made a bid to become one of the Parliament’s 14 vice presidents. MEPs worked together to block his appointment and ensure the post went to Anneli Jaattenmaki, a Finnish member of the liberal ALDE group.
A Parliament source said Tajani has not struck a deal with the 5Star movement to give them a senior job in return for their support in the presidential election.
Pedicini described his party as more respectable than other Euroskeptic groups but said his group felt a closer affinity with Tajani than with Gianni Pittella, another Italian MEP and the Socialist candidate, who has said “he would never go and ask the populists to vote for him.”
Matteo Salvini, the leader of Italy’s Northern League, told POLITICO Tajani had not reached out to him for support.
Nicholas Vinocur contributed to this article.
German’s Deutsche Bank has agreed to pay $7.2 billion to settle the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) investigation into alleged mis-selling of toxic mortgage-backed securities in the lead-up to the housing crisis, it announced in a statement Friday.
Under the terms of the in-principle agreement, which has been in the works for months, Deutsche will pay a civil monetary penalty of $3.1 billion and provide $4.1 billion in consumer relief. The bank said the consumer relief would primarily take the form of loan modifications and other assistance to homeowners and borrowers and similar initiatives, and will be delivered over at least five years.
The DoJ had initially sought a $14 billion settlement.
“The settlement is subject to the negotiation of definitive documentation, and there can be no assurance that the U.S. Department of Justice and the bank will agree on the final documentation,” the bank said.
“Deutsche Bank expects to record pre-tax charges of approximately $1.17 billion in the financial results for the fourth quarter as a consequence of the civil monetary penalty. The financial consequences, if any, of the consumer relief are subject to the final terms of the settlement, and are not currently expected to have a material impact on 2016 financial results,” according to the statement.
The bank said it will publish its preliminary results for the 2016 financial year on February 2, as planned.
President-elect Donald Trump began to fill out his senior team in the West Wing on Thursday, naming campaign manager Kellyanne Conway as his counselor and installing Republican National Committee chief strategist Sean Spicer as his press secretary, one of the most public and prominent jobs in the administration.
Trump also filled out more of his communications staff, appointing campaign spokesman Jason Miller to be communications director, campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks to be strategic communications director and Dan Scavino, who ran social media for Trump’s campaign, to do the same for his White House.
Those three, along with Spicer, were also given the title of assistant to the president.
The flurry of announcements ended weeks of rumors and jockeying for position among Trump’s campaign veterans and supporters. Of the four, Hicks and Scavino are so-called “Trump originals” who were with him from the start. Other longtime aides have worried that they were being frozen out in favor of more recent hires like Conway and Miller and members of the GOP establishment like Spicer and incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus.
One such loyalist — Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s first campaign manager — on Wednesday announced that he will start a lobbying firm in D.C. rather than accept a White House job other than the one he wanted.
With Priebus as his chief of staff, Bannon as his chief strategist and Conway as his counselor, Trump has set up three competing power centers in his administration, promising a continuation of the competition for his ear that occurred throughout the campaign and the transition process.
In the first of two announcements on Thursday, Trump’s transition team said Conway will “continue her role as a close advisor to the president and will work with senior leadership to effectively message and execute the Administration’s legislative priorities and actions.”
“Kellyanne Conway has been a trusted advisor and strategist who played a crucial role in my victory. She is a tireless and tenacious advocate of my agenda and has amazing insights on how to effectively communicate our message. I am pleased that she will be part of my senior team in the West Wing,” Trump said in a statement.
Conway, who joined Trump’s campaign as it was mired in controversy over the summer and managed it to a surprise victory last month, had previously said she was hesitant to accept a White House role because such a job would take her away from her four young children. She had previously hinted that she would turn down a position inside the White House. Ultimately, Conway told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Thursday morning that “it’s very difficult to say no,” to a White House job, “and the president-elect is a very persuasive man.”
Conway, in her new position, will be the highest–ranking woman in the White House. On Thursday morning, she noted that past counselors to the president have included Karen Hughes, who filled that role for President George W. Bush, and Edwin Meese, who worked for President Ronald Reagan. She said that while her job title is not novel, her duties and responsibilities will not be modeled after any particular predecessor but will be specific to Trump’s administration.
Conway, a veteran GOP pollster, has been one of his most visible spokespersons, both before and after Election Day, and she told CNN’s “New Day” that she expects to keep communications as one aspect of her new job, even as Spicer, Hicks, Miller and Scavino also play prominent roles.
Dealing with data and strategy, pulling from her background, is also likely to be part of her new position, a role she said was established in her discussions with Trump’s son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner. Speaking with MSNBC, Conway said she expects Trump will ask her to continue serving as a “discreet adviser” and somebody who “supports him in his effective connecting and communicating with America.”
“Well, the portfolio will be whatever the president wants it to be,” Conway said in explaining her new position to CNN anchor Chris Cuomo. “I’m just really pleased and frankly very humbled, Chris, to take on this role in the West Wing, near the president, and to be supportive of the senior team that he already has in place, colleagues of mine that I’ve worked together very closely with throughout the campaign and the transition.”
The incoming counselor to the president said Thursday morning that her concerns about White House work taking her away from her children were ultimately assuaged by seeing Trump spend time with his own children and grandchildren and by her decades-long relationships with female employees of Trump’s companies. Conway said three of her four children are excited about the family’s move from New Jersey to Washington, although her 12-year-old daughter did begin a “keep the Conway kids from moving to Washington” online petition. “When you’re a pollster and you have 75 percent agreement on anything, you’re really excited. When you’re a mother, 100 percent agreement would be fantastic, so we’re getting there,” Conway told “Fox & Friends.”
At an event hosted by POLITICO earlier this month, Conway suggested that the demands placed on any White House staffer are especially difficult for mothers, a predicament she said many men do not understand.
“I do politely mention to them the question isn’t would you take the job, the male sitting across from me who’s going to take a big job in the White House. The question is would you want your wife to,” she continued. “Would you want the mother of children to? You really see their entire visage change. It’s like, ‘Oh, no, they wouldn’t want their wife to take that job.’”
Asked Thursday Morning on Fox Business Network if she would have enough time to do her job and still be a full-time mother for her four children, Conway responded, “I don’t play golf and I don’t have a mistress so, I have a lot of time that a lot of these other men don’t.”
The transition team statement announcing Conway’s White House position also seemingly jabbed at Democrat Hillary Clinton, who spoke often of shattering the “glass ceiling” by becoming the first woman elected to be president. Conway, the Trump team statement noted, is the first woman to manage a winning presidential campaign and as such, the Manhattan billionaire’s campaign had “shattered the glass ceiling for women.”
Shane Goldmacher contributed to this report.
The Alternative for Germany party was wrong to criticize Angela Merkel in the aftermath of the Berlin terror attack, the party’s co-founder said Thursday.
Alexander Gauland condemned party members’ response to the terrorist attack that killed 12 and injured dozens more at a Christmas market in the German capital.
While the party expressed its condolences on Facebook, Marcus Pretzell, a senior member of the European Parliament for the AfD, called the victims “Merkel’s dead” in a tweet posted an hour after the attack.
Stefan Räpple, an AfD regional parliament member in Baden-Württemberg, said the chancellor had blood on her hands.
“I would not link the victims’ death to one person,” Gauland said in an interview with Die Welt published Thursday. “I have said myself that Germany’s migration policy is the clear culprit for this incident.”
The prime suspect, 24-year-old Anis Amri, arrived in Germany in 2015, after spending four years in Italian jails for participating in a violent riot at a migrant reception center in Lampedusa in 2011. He had been denied asylum in Germany earlier this year, and was known to federal police as a potential threat.
When asked whether he had misgivings about feeding off the German population’s fear for electoral purposes, Gauland replied that the AfD only lends a voice to what many Germans already feel.
“Merkel is the one who divided society,” he said. “We’re the result of that.”
Dialogue between Russia and the United States has essentially frozen, a Kremlin spokesperson said Thursday, adding that having Donald Trump as president could result in better relations between Washington and Moscow.
“We’re not wearing rose-tinted glasses, we have no illusions about any breakthroughs but hope for a more constructive approach” with Trump in the White House, Dmitry Peskov told state-owned television network RIA.
Russia is examining how to approach the incoming Trump administration but does not expect an about-face on the thorny issue of NATO expansion, Reuters reported.
While relations between Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Obama administration have been tense, Trump has repeatedly expressed admiration for the Russian leader and voiced his desire to cooperate with Moscow on foreign policy.
Meanwhile, Trump pledged his commitment to the U.S. nuclear arsenal, saying Thursday the country must “greatly strenghthen” its capabilities.
“The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes,” Trump said in a tweet Thursday,
Trump caused alarm during the election campaign with his talk about nuclear weapons, particularly his suggestion that other countries — including Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia — should be allowed to develop them.
Donald Trump’s Scottish golf resort near Aberdeen could be forced to compensate an environmental activist for filming her without permission as she allegedly urinated on a dune, an Edinburgh court ruled Thursday.
Rohan Beyts is pursuing the resort in northeast Scotland for breach of privacy, after the mogul’s employees used their mobile phones to film her in April, the Independent reported. A judge ruled Thursday that Beyts’ effort to recover £3,000 can go ahead after the resort unsuccessfully tried to have the case dismissed.
Beyts, a persistent critic of the resort’s environmental impact, was charged with public annoyance after the footage was given to police.
Trump International Golf Course Scotland came under fire earlier this year for failing to register with the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office, despite its considerable CCTV system and large volume of data on golfers, guests, staff and suppliers. The resort chalked up the omission to a clerical error.
The next hearing is set for April 3 next year.
President-elect Donald Trump on Thursday pledged his commitment to the U.S. nuclear arsenal, saying the country must “greatly strengthen” its capabilities, at least for now.
“The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes,” Trump said in a tweet on Thursday, right after he hit back on reports that he is backing off his “drain the swamp” campaign pledge.
Trump’s comments on the U.S. nuclear arsenal came after he met on Wednesday afternoon with half a dozen top military officers at Mar-a-Lago, his Florida resort where he’s staying for the holidays.
While Trump spoke with the top Pentagon brass about costs of major contracts, including the F-35, it’s not clear if they also discussed nuclear matters.
Trump caused alarm during the campaign with his talk about nuclear weapons, particularly his suggestion that other countries — including Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia — should be allowed to develop them.
But he also told the New York Times in March that “it’s a very scary nuclear world.”
“Biggest problem, to me, in the world, is nuclear, and proliferation,” Trump said at the time.
The fingerprints of Anis Amri, the prime suspect in Monday’s deadly attack on a Berlin Christmas market, were found in the cab of the truck used in the attack, German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said Thursday.
“It is highly likely that the suspect is in fact the attacker,” de Maizière said at the federal police offices in Berlin.
He said authorities are doing everything possible to apprehend the 24-year-old Tunisian man “as quickly as possible.”

An arrest warrant has been issued against Amri, the federal prosecutor’s office said in a statement Thursday evening.
“Given the latest information from the investigation, we are working on the assumption that Anis Amri was the driver of the truck,” a spokeswoman said.
The German federal prosecutor had issued a Europe-wide alert on Wednesday, offering a €100,000 reward for information that could lead to his arrest.
Appearing with de Maizière, Chancellor Angela Merkel praised Berliners’ calm response in the days after a truck plowed into a crowded Christmas market on Monday night, killing 12 people and injuring dozens more.
“I have been very proud to see how calmly and soberly people reacted to this incident,” the chancellor said.
She expressed confidence in the country’s ability to meet the terrorist threat, citing measures taken in the realm of internet surveillance as an example of Germany’s ability to protect its citizens.
“We have known for years that we are the target of extremists,” Merkel said. “But it’s something very different when it actually happens.”
“We have democracy and freedom on our side,” she said, stressing that Germany would not surrender its free and open way of life.
A post-Brexit trade deal between the U.K. and the rest of the EU looks harder today after legal analysis by European Court of Justice Advocate General Eleanor Sharpston concluded the EU-Singapore trade agreement must not be ratified without the involvement of some 38 national and regional parliaments across the EU.
While not a final ruling, her opinion is an important precursor for the court’s decision, expected in spring. Should the court agree with the advocate general, each of these 38 parliaments could shoot down trade agreements.
While some might be tempted to argue this case only concerns Singapore, Advocate General Sharpston stated this deal “forms part of a new generation of trade and investment agreements” the EU negotiates around the world. If London wants any ambitious deal with the EU, it would likely touch upon areas affected by this ruling.
Equally worrying for Downing Street, the rest of the EU could use the risk of knotty trade negotiations to force the U.K. into making concessions on toxic issues such as free movement. Not only might Eastern European countries be tempted to do so, but so might the Irish as they fear a huge negative economic impact from Brexit.
Passing the ratification through EU national parliaments is time-consuming. An EU trade deal with Peru and Colombia, signed in June 2012, still hasn’t been ratified in three EU countries — more than four-and-a-half years later. So much for Theresa May’s plan to strike a fast deal with the EU.
Although trade agreements can be applied provisionally before national lawmakers have approved them, such a decision would also require the approval of the national and regional governments across Europe. The “Walloon drama” around the EU-Canada trade agreement in October — when the Belgian regional government refused its signature for weeks and nearly capsized the deal — should act as a timely reminder that trade deals and national politics are tricky bedfellows.
Technically speaking, in the advocate general’s opinion countries are not obliged to ratify trade deals via the national parliaments, they merely have the right to ratify deals this way should they choose to. But given countries such as Germany and France have fought strongly for this right — and expressed their satisfaction at the legal opinion — they are unlikely to do Britain a favor and give a trade deal smooth passage.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Carl Paladino, the upstate New York developer and local political gadfly, was interested in catching up with Donald Trump in early December, so he rang up the president-elect’s private security guard. The next day, on Dec. 5, Paladino found himself high in Trump Tower, recounting favorite moments from the campaign and gossiping about local politics with the president-elect for 45 minutes.
“He said, ‘When are you going to be down in the city? Just call me when you get in,'” Paladino, the co-chair for Trump’s campaign in New York who is little-known outside the state, recalled of talking to the security guard, Keith Schiller. “So I called his number, and his guy told me to come in the next day at 11 o’clock. He hadn’t changed a bit.”
Since winning the presidency, Trump has taken calls from world leaders, interviewed dozens of potential Cabinet officials and huddled with the country’s richest executives, activities that are often associated with the intense transition effort for a president-elect.
But Trump’s schedule has also been filled with municipal officials from Long Island, pastors and lower-level business executives. He has huddled with sports figures like Jim Brown, recording artists Kanye West and Andrea Bocelli, and a number of other celebrities and well-known figures, like TV producer Mark Burnett and talent agent Ari Emanuel.
“Those are just his friends,” the Rev. Al Sharpton said. “He knows all these guys because he ran casinos and sporting events and threw some of the biggest boxing matches in the main room at the Taj Mahal in Atlantic City.”
Trump’s wham-bam scheduling, and his meetings with all sorts of figures, don’t seem to have slowed his Cabinet appointments. He has filled most of the spots — including the big four of Defense, State, Treasury and Attorney General — ahead of many past presidents.
Yet his willingness to meet with seemingly anyone and everyone has worried some, as he has sometimes declined a daily intelligence briefing and often seems more interested in pizzazz than substance. He’s also been accused of not quickly returning calls with some traditional allies, and engaging in conversation with other foreign leaders, like the president of Taiwan, that the U.S. has typically ignored, at least publicly.
And they wonder why he is meeting with some of these people at all.
“It’s going to be more challenging if that’s brought to the White House,” said Craig Fuller, the co-chair of George H.W. Bush’s transition committee and his former chief of staff. “There is a high demand of issues to bring to the White House. You can’t just shoot from the hip, shall we say.”
People who know Trump say this is just Trump being Trump and that the path to meeting him in Trump Tower hasn’t changed after his surprise win on Nov. 8. Meetings can be set up on a whim by a number of people, from his security guard to his longtime assistant, Rhona Graff, to a number of advisers. Trump likes to be busy, talking with people at all times.
Political operatives and lobbyists say they’ve expected to get the runaround — only to be told Trump can talk or meet — and soon.
Sometimes, he has met with people simply because they happened to be in New York. Sometimes, Trump yells across the office to have his secretary call someone unexpected, as he did recently to reach Sharpton. Sharpton at first hung up on the secretary because he didn’t believe it was real, he said.
Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez, who has worked with Trump on golf course and real estate deals in the past, had his call returned within 15 minutes on a recent morning, a spokesman said. The two talked about the death of Fidel Castro, Cuba’s president, the spokesman said.
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio was surprised with a phone call and a 62-minute meeting with Trump within 10 days of him winning the presidency. The meeting was partially orchestrated by a Staten Island city councilman. “No one knew why the meeting went that long,” one person close to de Blasio said.
Oklahoma City Mayor Mick Cornett said Trump asked him when he was visiting New York and then scheduled a meeting for that day, Dec. 15. “It was very casual,” he said. He also met with the mayor of Columbia, South Carolina, and the former mayor of Burnsville, Minnesota, as part of a U.S. Conference of Mayors delegation.
Some of Trump’s longtime acquaintances have even had some fun with the spectacle, as reporters and gawkers camped out in the lobby of Trump Tower watch every move of the president-elect’s visitors.
Media widely reported Trump met with Barry Switzer, the former University of Oklahoma and Dallas Cowboys coach who has known Trump for decades. But Switzer said he was shopping with his wife and daughter on Fifth Avenue and decided to walk into the Trump Tower lobby after seeing the Naked Cowboy. He had no meeting scheduled.
“All the media people said, ‘Coach what are you doing here,'” Switzer said in an interview. “I told them I was here to see the president like everyone else.”
Switzer said he instead went upstairs in Trump Tower, bought a coffee at Starbucks and came back downstairs.
“I told the reporters I had a great visit, and that we were going to make the wishbone great again,” he said. “I told them I was going to be Secretary of Offense and that Trump knew how to run the ball down the field.”
“Then I went back to my hotel and laughed my ass off,” he said, still laughing this week. “It went everywhere. Everyone believed it. I had all these calls, but I was just jerking people around.”
Those who know Trump say little in his demeanor has shifted, except for the bulletproof glass that now encompasses his office windows on the 26th floor of Trump Tower.
Rep. Peter King, a New York Republican, spoke to Trump’s secretary on a recent Monday and was told the president-elect would see him three days later. King said they discussed the intricacies of his district and how Trump would handle homeland security. Other high-level, soon-to-be Trump officials, such as the CIA director and the treasury secretary, sit in “glass-enclosed cubicles with their titles scotch-taped on the wall,” King said. “And they’ll be running the government in about a month.”
“He was joking around, making disparaging comments about other politicians in a humorous way,” King said. King said Trump orchestrated photos of the group that accompanied King, telling people “where to stand, and the angle to hold the camera.”
King’s daughter, Erin King Sweeney, a town councilwoman from Long Island, tagged along for the meeting and came in for the pictures, which were taken by Vice President-elect Mike Pence with a pink camera from King’s office. John J. LaValle, the Suffolk County Republican Party chairman, who also was part of the visiting group, said it “was just another meeting, checking in with the boss on how things are going.”
“I’m like the smallest of small local public officials. I represent 120,000 people and I fill potholes,” King Sweeney, who represents Hempstead, said with a laugh, adding they talked about economic development on Long Island. “He was really interested in the details of how he won on Long Island.”
Trump has also met with all three Emanuel brothers — Ari, Chicago Mayor Rahm and physician Ezekiel Emanuel, one of the architects of President Obama’s Affordable Care Act, who talked about health care with Trump.
Ezekiel, the oldest of the three, said he’s still a little mystified by his face time with the president-elect.
“I believe it came about, but you’d have to ask him, because of my brother,” Ezekiel Emanuel said, adding he was pleased that he made it on Trump’s schedule. “The president has a very limited amount of time.”
Spain has again ruled out Scotland remaining in the EU’s single market if Britain leaves it, local media reported Thursday.
“If the U.K. leaves the single market, the whole U.K. will leave the single market,” said Jorge Toledo, the Spanish secretary of state for the European Union. “There is only one negotiator, the U.K. government.”
First Minister Sturgeon on Tuesday said she wanted Scotland to remain in the single market even if Britain left it. She has repeatably called for a soft Brexit deal as a majority of Scots voted to stay in the EU in Britain’s June referendum.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has previously said he would block any separate Brexit deal for Scotland because it may encourage Catalonia’s bid for independence.
 
The number of asylum seekers returned from Germany to their home countries spiked in 2016, according to government figures published Thursday by Die Welt.
From January to November this year, 23,750 asylum seekers were deported, compared to 20,888 in the whole of 2015. In addition, 51,243 applications for voluntary return were granted in 2016, up from 35,000 last year.
Germany has not reached a target set in April by Peter Altmeier, the chancellery’s chief of staff, of doubling deportations and voluntary departures for 2016.
The Federal Office for Migration has increased the number of asylum requests it processed year-on-year in 2016 by 160 percent, having made 616,000 decisions. However, more than 215,000 foreigners who have been ordered to leave the country remain in Germany.
More than 780 computers have disappeared through carelessness and theft from the British Ministry of Defense since May 2015, AFP reported Wednesday, citing records obtained by the Press Association under the Freedom of Information Act.
In addition to the misplaced laptops and desktops, 328 CDs, DVDs and USBs were lost.
The ministry said all incidents of missing equipment are “thoroughly investigated.”
Other British departments have also misplaced tech equipment. The Department of Work and Pensions reported 42 missing encrypted laptops or computers and eight USBs up to August and Treasury lost eight laptops and one memory stick.
A majority of Democratic and independent voters made clear that they don’t foresee Hillary Clinton in their 2020 vision of the presidential election, according to a USA Today/Suffolk University poll released Wednesday.
Sixty-two percent of Democrats and independents surveyed said the twice-failed presidential candidate shouldn’t mount another campaign in 2020, and only 23 percent would be excited by her campaign if she did.
The two people they would most like to see are two of the most prominent Democratic-aligned politicians unlikely to seek the White House in 2020: Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and Vice President Joe Biden. Forty-four percent and 43 percent of those voters, respectively, said they would be excited to see Sanders and Biden run.
Sanders challenged Clinton for the Democratic nomination, but it’s unlikely that the 75-year-old independent senator would mount another White House bid. However, he has said he plans to run for reelection to his Senate seat in 2018.
Biden, 74, repeatedly teased a possible 2020 White House run earlier this month but ultimately conceded he has “no plans” to run but will “stay deeply, deeply involved” in Democratic politics.
A majority of Democrats and independents would like to see a new name, though. While 35 percent would be excited about a Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren run and 10 percent for former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, 66 percent would like to see “someone entirely new” become the Democratic Party’s standard-bearer as it looks to rebound from a surprising Election Day loss that saw Donald Trump prevail over Clinton and Republicans maintain control over the House and Senate.
President Barack Obama, who has said he’s interested in “developing a whole new generation of talent” once he leaves office, enjoys a 54 percent approval rating. But 59 percent of likely voters believe Trump “will significantly dismantle” the president’s legacy. Likely voters are largely split over whether that’s good or bad — 45 percent said it’s good, and 43 percent said it’s bad.
Trump is 30 days out from being sworn in as the nation’s 45th president, but likely voters still aren’t sold on his transition into the White House. While 41 percent approve of the billionaire’s transition into the nation’s highest office, 40 percent disapprove.
The president-elect was considered a wild card in the campaign, and it appears that he will retain that aura of unpredictability as he enters the Oval Office.
While a quarter of likely voters think Trump will prove to be a failed president, 12 percent think he will be great, 18 percent good, 15 percent fair and 30 percent undecided. And while 16 percent are excited by Trump’s presidency, the top emotions likely voters feel are at odds with each other: 38 percent are alarmed, but another 38 percent are hopeful.
A majority said Trump, who postponed a mid-December news conference during which he was expected to announce a resolution to his business interests before he takes office, should do more to “prevent conflicts of interest between his business interests and the country’s interests.”
On that June day in 2015 when he announced his improbable campaign, Trump proclaimed that he would “be the greatest jobs president that God ever created,” and likely voters are holding him to that pledge.
Forty-six percent want job creation and job preservation to be Trump’s No. 1 priority in the White House. Other top issues include fighting terrorism and the Islamic State (17 percent) and draining the swamp (15 percent) — although, according to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Trump “disclaims that” pledge.
Trump has appeared to shift some of his campaign policy pledges since winning the election, but 39 percent of likely voters said he should follow the policies and promises he made. Fifty percent, however, believe the president-elect should do whatever needs to be done, even if it means reneging on his promises.
The national survey of 1,000 likely voters was conducted Dec. 14-18 via landlines and cellphones. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
PARIS — French conservative presidential candidate François Fillon has put on record his belief that the country’s trade unions no longer possess the muscle to prevent his planned reforms.
The unions’ response? Go ahead and see how weak we are.
Five months ahead of France’s general election, representatives from the biggest unions told POLITICO they are preparing to meet Fillon’s challenge with a show of force against the most radical aspects of his program.
It could take the form of street protests, strikes or both either before or after the May 2017 vote, they said.
The threat of a clash with France’s famously combative unions may cool Fillon’s Thatcherite ambitions. Having already scrapped controversial plans to privatize parts of the social security system, the former prime minister is now poised to make further concessions — notably on plans to slash 500,000 civil service jobs and abolish the 35-hour work week.
Formal negotiations on those issues start in January, and unions expect the candidate to have a very open mind.
“What we can say clearly is that the number of 500,000 job cuts in the civil service is totally unrealistic,” said Philippe Louis, head of the CFTC union, who will meet with a Fillon ally in January.
“When we sit down with his team, we are going to point out that in schools, in the police, in hospitals — there is just no scope to do this, given the current state of our public service.
“I believe that there will be a spirit of compromise, and that these proposals will not remain intact.”
When Fillon deleted an entire section of his health program from his web site in the face of public opposition, staffers explained that the platform naturally needed to be “updated” for the general election.
Plenty more “updating” looks likely from a candidate who has vowed to use executive orders to drive through his reforms — despite never having resorted to the tool during five years as prime minister under ex-President Nicolas Sarkozy. In fact, Fillon relied heavily on dialogue with the hardline CGT union to pass reforms.
Fillon has appointed conservative senator and ally Gérard Larcher as his envoy to deal with the unions.
A senior Fillon campaign adviser declined to discuss the talks. “It’s only normal for a presidential candidate to have a direct rapport with unions,” said MP Jérome Chartier.
But the choice of Larcher, who is an advocate of social dialogue with a long history of negotiating with unions, is in itself a sign of willingness to compromise. During the primary, Larcher described dialogue with unions as being “indispensable” to reform — not exactly the same language as Fillon, who promised to be “inflexible” on his plans.
At the top of union priorities in January will be plans to reduce the number of civil servants and raise working hours, particularly for hospital staff. Representatives for nurses, teachers, police and civil servants called such plans “worrying,” “unacceptable” and “unrealistic.” They would demonstrate their unhappiness with Fillon’s plans through protests that have already been scheduled.
“We are preparing for massive mobilization in the first quarter of 2017,” said Jawad Mahjoubi, who represents civil servants in the CGT union. “Our response will be proportional to the scale of the offensive against us.”
Louis, of the more moderate CFTC union, said: “I think he [Fillon] will also be careful about avoiding a full-scale run-in.”
Fillon’s tread-carefully approach may seem surprising for a candidate who finds unions “weak.” He was likely referring to the fact that, unlike in Germany or Sweden, where unions have massive membership, in France only a small percentage of private sector workers are unionized.
However, that small percentage is empowered to make decisions on behalf of nearly all workers. And despite rules curtailing union power to disrupt daily life, they have mounted significant industrial action and demonstrations against the current Socialist government.
“The (conservative) Républicains party has 200,000 members, while the CFDT union has 800,000,” said Laurent Berger, chief of the reformist CFDT union, France’s largest by membership. “So let’s please stop the finger-pointing.”
If Fillon wants to reform his country, he will struggle to bypass unions entirely, particularly the CFDT, which was a crucial partner for President François Hollande when he was trying to pass a labor reform. Without the CFDT’s support, he would have faced a common front of opposition that would have made passing the bill nearly impossible.
Berger has called Fillon’s program “worrying” — an indication that he will not sign on without serious revisions.
There is another serious risk for Fillon in alienating unions: that their members will turn away from his “ultra-liberal” program and choose to embrace the statism of far-right leader Marine Le Pen.
The National Front president already enjoys widespread support among blue-collar voters. Her aggressive campaign to undermine Fillon — whom she is expected to face off against in the presidential election’s final round — focuses relentlessly on his “liberalism” and the idea that he will dismantle a cherished welfare state.
Several union representatives warned that unless Fillon seriously revised his program, they would have trouble turning members away from the National Front during the next election.
“It’s easy to see that the National Front vote is on the rise in all the sectors where workers feel abandoned by the state,” said Berger.
 
MUNICH — Five days after Donald Trump became the next president of the United States, the south Munich chapter of Germany’s far-right party, Alternative for Germany (AfD), held its first meeting since the U.S. election. In a traditional Bavarian tavern on a quiet residential street, 50-some party members and supporters drank beer and celebrated the victory that they felt was, in many ways, their own.
The theme of the meeting was supposed to be the local elections in May, when the AfD is expected to pick up seats in several of Germany’s state parliaments. (The party currently holds seats in 10 of Germany’s 16 state parliaments, up from five one year ago.) But instead of local elections, talk that night centered almost exclusively on Donald Trump.
Dirk Driesang, a member of AfD’s federal board, stood to address the packed restaurant, where party placards reading “AfD Loves Deutschland” adorned every table. He began with Trump’s roots in Germany. The president-elect’s grandfather Friedrich was born and raised in Kallstadt, a village in the southwest. Friedrich eventually was deported, Driesang smiled as he told the crowd, for evading his mandatory military service. But that was fine because his grandson had gone on to do in the U.S. what the AfD hopes to do in Germany.
“America First is coming to Deutschland,” boomed Driesang, his adaptation of Trump’s campaign slogan giving way to resounding applause.
Among all of Germany’s political parties, the AfD was alone in cheering Trump’s surprise victory. The cover of Der Spiegel on November 12 depicted Trump’s head as a fiery meteor on course to destroy Planet Earth. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s first remarks on the U.S. election results included a lecture on the very definition of democracy. But the AfD, whose dramatic rise over the past two years has been fueled by much the same anti-immigrant, anti-Islam and anti-establishment elements that elevated Trump to power in the United States, saw the real estate mogul’s win as a good omen for their controversial movement to make nationalism popular in Germany again — for the first time since World War II.
“This election result gives courage for Germany and Europe,” read AfD Chairwoman Frauke Petry’s statement on November 9. “Just as the Americans did not believe the manipulations of their mainstream media, citizens in Germany also have the courage to make their decision in the election booth themselves and not to remain resigned at home.”
Now, the party is poised for a historic result in next year’s national elections, in which Merkel faces her stiffest challenge yet. After narrowly missing the 5 percent needed to enter national parliament in the 2013 elections, polls now suggest the AfD will receive 16 percent of the national vote in 2017, making it the third-largest political party in Germany, after Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU), and the Social Democratic Party (SPD), part of Merkel’s grand coalition. The terror attack that killed 12 people at a Christmas market in Berlin on Monday is expected to bolster the AfD even more, and in turn, lower support for Merkel, who has been criticized for welcoming nearly 1 million migrants in 2015 alone, without proper background checks.
That level of success for a far-right party in the country that gave rise to Adolf Hitler would represent a political earthquake for Europe — and a national trauma for Germans, who have sought to expunge and confront their history in the 70 years since World War II. The country’s politics have been solidly liberal since the reunification of Germany in 1990. But over the past two years, as Merkel has welcomed Muslim refugees and led the bailouts of struggling European economies such as Greece, populist sentiments have surged — and the AfD is now reaping the rewards.
The AfD’s platform is a collection of right-wing themes: EU reform, closed borders and a return to the Germany of yesteryear, before what many of its members and supporters refer to as the “Islamization” of Europe. The party seeks to ban large minarets and the call to prayer, and require Muslim preachers to undergo government vetting. “Islam does not belong in Germany,” the platform states.
The AfD’s rise has been stunning, accomplishing in just three years what took other populist European parties — like France’s National Front and Austria’s Freedom Party — more than four decades to achieve. And it could have serious consequences. Unlike France and Austria, Germany, under Merkel’s leadership, has become the widely accepted leader of the liberal West. Now, the pillars of this leadership — from Merkel’s stewardship of the refugee crisis and the euro crisis — are under attack from the country’s increasingly popular populist party. That popularity has already led Merkel to veer to the right, hardening her stance on refugees and Islam in Germany.
“What they are managing right now is to make a very radical brand of right wing politics not exactly fashionable, but acceptable in Germany, and that’s new,” says Kai Arzheimer, a professor of politics at the University of Mainz. “They should be taken very seriously, insofar as I think they will do pretty well in the upcoming election. Sixteen percent on the national level is a very strong showing by German standards.”
That is not to say that all Germans are comfortable with the AfD. It’s gaining popularity, but it’s still very controversial. Berlin is filled with anti-AfD stickers and graffiti, and at least one restaurant there has a sign on its window urging AfD supporters to keep out. In Munich, the local AfD chapter holds its meetings on that quiet residential street because no other restaurant in Munich will agree to host it. The mayor of Munich even sent a notice to local business owners, urging them not to rent space to “populist groups,” a clear reference to the AfD.
But it’s precisely this kind of blanket condemnation of the AfD’s populism that galvanizes the party, and has led so many Germans to run so quickly into its welcoming arms.
“There’s a wide section of the German population that hasn’t felt represented by the political establishment and were simply waiting for a party like the AfD to provide an organization around which they could crystallize their anger and their hopes for alternative policymaking,” says Werner Patzelt, a political scientist at the Technical University of Dresden.
According to analysts, the majority of AfD voters previously supported Merkel, and voted for parties in the chancellor’s ruling coalition. But, says Arzheimer, one-third of AfD voters are formerly non-voters, people who were so disillusioned by the established parties that they simply didn’t vote. Some, he says, even voted for socialist left-wing parties in the past.
All of these voters have one thing in common: They are tired of apologizing for their national history. “We have this problem in Germany where you’re not allowed to love your country because if you do you’re considered a Nazi,” says Sarah Leins, a 30-year-old AfD supporter. “We have to overcome this.”
* * *
Uli Henkel prides himself on the fact that he has couch-surfed in 61 countries, the same number of years he has been alive. When I meet him, he tells me proudly that he is one of Germany’s infamous “Sixty-Eighters.” He giddily shows me a picture of himself as a long-haired teenage hippy, when he took part in student protests against the political establishment in the late 1960s.
Today, Henkel is devoted to a new rebellion against the establishment. He takes great pride in being German and feels that it’s time for Germans to be allowed to be proud of their country, just like all the people he meets in his world travels.
“This is a normal thing in all countries of the world, but it’s not normal in Germany because in Germany, we always look to what will the rest of the world think? How can we heal the world? We are neglecting the needs of our own people.” Henkel continues, “We fought against the old Nazi Germany. And we overcame it. And I don’t think that because of these 12 black years of history I should always have my head under the table. It cannot mean that three generations later, we don’t have the right to demonstrate against things, to have another opinion than the mainstream opinion.”
Henkel describes this mainstream opinion as follows: “If you’re not in favor of the refugees, if you’re not going to the stations saying, ‘Refugees Welcome,’ if you don’t think that millions of young male Muslim men are good for this country, then you’re racist, then you’re a Nazi.”
After supporting Merkel for many years, Henkel is now a member of the AfD. He says he felt that she turned her back on Germans by letting in so many migrants and giving them so many benefits. The money being spent on asylum seekers and refugees, he says, should be going to German citizens.
As a well-off, well-traveled business consultant, Henkel epitomizes the fact that AfD voters, like Trump voters, cannot be pinned down by the simple labels that have been popular with the German media, which tends to depict AfD supporters as uneducated racists who resent being left behind by globalization.
In fact, many AfD voters are young and well-educated. While thorough party data won’t become available until the national election in 2017, analysts have gained some insight into the average AfD voter from local elections. Based on that data, these analysts say, most AfD supporters are younger than 65. Older voters, they say, tend to show more loyalty to traditional parties, like Merkel’s CDU. According to Jörg Sobolewski, the AfD’s Berlin regional manager, the second-largest faction of AfD voters are under 30. Their biggest contingent, said Sobolewski — who is himself 27 years old — are people aged 30 to 65, who make up 25 percent of AfD voters. As for education and professional background, that too defies stereotypes.
“There is not much difference between them and voters of the CDU or SPD (parties in Merkel’s government),” says Patzelt, the political scientist. “It’s not just the so-called blue collar workers, but classic middle class as well.”
The AfD, after all, was not born as an overtly nationalist party. It was founded in 2013 by economists who demanded European Union reform, and opposed the bailouts that led Germany to pay billions of euros to help fledgling economies like Greece and Spain. When the 2015 refugee crisis hit Germany like a tsunami, sending nearly 1 million asylum seekers into Germany that year alone, the party took a hard-right turn, making anti-immigration and the anti-Islamization of Europe its primary focus. That shift led AfD’s founder, economist Bernd Lucke, and other party leaders, to leave what Lucke said was becoming an “Islamophobic and xenophobic” party.
The AfD quickly became the only political voice in Germany to criticize Merkel’s open-door refugee policy, a humanitarian stance that earned her praise from the domestic and international media, but scorn from many of her former supporters. The AfD largely benefited from that scorn.
“Many of the refugees are of Muslim background, and they came to Germany at a time when there were many Islamic attacks in Europe,” says Patzelt. “Since none of the established parties gave expression to these fears, people felt liberated when they saw that the AfD would give expression to their views and would generate significant policy changes in the government.”
***
Sarah Leins is one of those young voters who, like Henkel, supported Merkel before the chancellor decided to shoulder the burden of Europe’s refugee influx, with no limit to the number of asylum seekers Germany would shelter. There are now 1.4 million asylum seekers in Germany, more than any other European nation. The German government provides them with an array of social benefits, including free shelter, food (if they are living in government shelters), medical services, approximately €216 to cover basic needs and an additional €143 a month in pocket money. The government has budgeted €98 billion to assist asylum seekers over the next five years.
Leins, 30, lives in hip, liberal Berlin, where September state elections shocked analysts by giving the AfD 14 percent of the vote, the highest share for a far-right party in Berlin since World War II. Merkel’s CDU suffered its worst results in the German capital, winning just 17.5 percent, echoing poor results in other state elections.
“Not only do I feel betrayed, but many people feel betrayed by Chancellor Merkel,” says Leins. After the terrorist attack in her city this week, her feelings of betrayal have only intensified.
It’s not that she doesn’t want to help refugees, Leins says. “But the help we can offer to real refugees is less because we are helping everybody. I think they are encouraged to come and this encouragement is wrong. It shouldn’t be our policy to encourage them to come.”
While Leins says she sympathizes with refugees, she and other AfD supporters say that because most refugees arrive in Turkey, Greece and Italy before coming to Germany, it is proof that they are drawn to Germany specifically because of the financial benefits that await them.
Before the election in Berlin, Leins volunteered to hand out AfD flyers in the streets. Several people called her a Nazi and a slut as they walked by. Leins has lost several friends because of her support for the AfD.
“It’s very hard to be proud of Germany because we have this historical guilt,” she says. “To say you’re proud to be German is to say you’re proud of Hitler and that is absolutely not true.”
Owing to this general perception, despite the AfD’s growing support, it was not treated as a serious threat to Merkel’s leadership — much like Trump wasn’t considered a serious threat to Hillary Clinton. That is, not until recently, now that the swelling support for the party has become impossible to ignore.
Nowhere has this been more obvious than in Merkel’s own recent shift to the right. Earlier this month came the latest example, with her proposal to ban full-face veils “wherever it is legally possible.” The ban on the niqab and the burqa was first proposed by the AfD in 2014, earning it accusations of Islamophobia. The party platform rejects the Islamization of Germany because, it claims, many Muslim beliefs — for example the treatment of women — go against Germany’s “free, democratic social foundation, our laws and the Judaeo-Christian and humanistic bases of our culture.”
Merkel’s backing of the burqa ban was an obvious appeal to right-wing voters. Yet it was also a symbolic one, as the burqa is almost nowhere to be found in German society. In fact, much of the so-called Islamization of German society that is feared by AfD supporters is largely overstated, says Arzheimer, the professor of politics. Muslims account for about 5 percent of the German population, he noted, adding that many of them are not religiously observant.
But for many German voters, statistics matter less than what they see in their cities and streets; and they, like many Trump supporters, blame immigrants for many of the changes they don’t like.
Joel Bussman, a 22-year-old AfD supporter, laments Germany’s increasing multiculturalism, particularly its impact on his hometown in the region of North Rhine-Westphalia — where German police are now on a manhunt for the suspect in Monday’s attack in Berlin.
“By inviting the whole world here, not everything will be better. More like everything will get worse,” says Bussman, a university student in Berlin. “The place I’m from used to be the heart of German mining and steel production, much like Pennsylvania in the USA. Today there’s no industry left, no jobs left. It’s pretty much a multicultural melting pot with almost no Germans left. When you walk the streets there you see mostly foreign people. There are almost no German shops anymore, which I find quite disturbing.”
Merkel’s other rightward shifts have been less headline-grabbing, but arguably more significant. Over the past year, Germany has, for instance, increased border patrol, decreased social benefits for refugees, deported asylum seekers and facilitated a deal with Turkey to stem the flow of refugees arriving in Europe.
Could policies like these help Merkel and the CDU win back some moderate AfD supporters? Perhaps, but it’s probably too late for her to reverse most of her losses. Until her recent concessions, says Patzelt, Merkel reacted to the threat of the AfD mainly by saying, “‘Well if populism is growing, then exactly because of this, in the political center we have to oppose all right-wing policies.’ This is the course she has taken and it is a course that has proved so unsuccessful,” he says, adding that this solution has done more to strengthen the AfD than weaken it.
This means that, for now, the pressure on Merkel’s right flank isn’t going away. There is almost no doubt among the political analysts I spoke with that Merkel will win reelection in 2017. But the AfD could end up being the strongest party in the opposition, which would give it a powerful voice in Germany’s parliamentary politics for the next four years.
It also means that Merkel will have to decide: Move right to stop bleeding political support, or continue to live up to her reputation as an icon of Western liberalism. Just after Donald Trump’s victory in the U.S. elections, the New York Times suggested Merkel might be “The liberal West’s last defender.” But with the far right on the rise again in Germany, it’s hard to see how that reputation will last.
Yardena Schwartz is an award-winning freelance journalist and Emmy-nominated producer. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, Newsweek and TIME, among other outlets.
WARSAW — As opposition protesters and MPs continued to lay siege to Poland’s parliament, the highest court was paralyzed by internecine war and the European Commission accused the country of violating the EU’s democratic principles, President Andrzej Duda put the blame for the political and constitutional impasse in one place: the political opposition.
“Poland is stable politically,” he said in an interview Wednesday with POLITICO and 300POLITYKA, a Polish political portal. “The opposition is making it impossible for parliament to work.”
The Polish leader also asserted that the most senior judge in the country, who stepped down earlier this week, broke the law and rebuffed the Commission’s warnings about backsliding by Warsaw, saying that Brussels had “overstepped” its authority.
Duda, 44, has been a crucial player in the country’s roiling crises since his ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party came to power last year. As president, Duda is supposed to stand above partisanship, and the opposition and Western officials have called on him to act as a check on the party, which has an absolute majority in parliament. Led by Poland’s paramount leader and party chief Jarosław Kaczyński, the PiS government has asserted control over state media, purged state-controlled companies and taken steps to hobble the independent judiciary.
Time and again, Duda disappointed those who hoped he’d push back against PiS and Kaczyński. It started a year ago with his refusal to veto the government’s law to pack the country’s highest court with allies, bucking his fellow lawyers in the Polish bar. Although he has tried to build ties with other European presidents on the foreign stage, he hasn’t established himself as an independent player in domestic politics.
Duda’s loyalty to the party came through again on Wednesday, when he nominated a new head of the Constitutional Tribunal, the country’s highest court. His decision cements Law and Justice’s control over the court after a year-long battle.
The fights over the tribunal have been marked by accusations of rule-breaking and partisanship, and Wednesday’s nomination ceremony was no exception. Duda chose Julia Przyłębska for the top job although eight justices chosen by previous governments refused to take part in the process. Instead, three justices whose election the tribunal had earlier found to be unconstitutional were allowed to help choose her.
The tribunal has been embroiled in crisis since last year, when the previous Civic Platform party government chose five new justices, two of whose terms hadn’t yet expired. When Law and Justice took power in October, it elected five of its own justices — all of whom were swiftly sworn in by Duda.
The tribunal, under the leadership of Andrzej Rzepliński, whose term expired on Monday, refused to seat three of the new justices. The tribunal also ruled that several government attempts to impose new rules on the court were unconstitutional — verdicts that the government has ignored.
That resistance to the will of Law and Justice makes Rzepliński, to hear Duda, the main culprit in a stand-off that has soured Poland’s relations with the European Commission and allies like the United States, and regularly brought thousands of anti-government demonstrators onto Polish streets.
“He broke the law and the constitution,” Duda said in the interview. “If the Constitutional Tribunal and its president violate the constitution what can be done? Nothing.”
Now that Przyłębska is in charge, Duda said he’s “counting on her experience and ethics as a judge,” to end the fight over the tribunal. “I’m expecting a dynamism” from the court, he said.
That’s not likely to satisfy the European Commission, which has been looking at events in Poland with growing alarm — although its power to force a change in Warsaw is limited. The Commission again discussed the situation in the country on Wednesday. “There is a persistent problem with the rule of law,” said European Commission First Vice President Frans Timmermans.
In July, when the Commission said there was a “systemic threat” to the rule of law in Poland, Warsaw brushed off Brussels’ concerns. The Commission’s only weapon is the threat of removing Poland’s vote in the Council, but it’s very unlikely that such a move would get the backing of all EU member countries. On Wednesday the Commission gave Poland another two months to respond to “additional recommendations” on how to address concerns over respect for the rule of law.
“The European Commission has overstepped its bounds,” Duda said.
The president is similarly dismissive of opposition claims that last Friday’s vote on the budget was irregular and should be held again. After the opposition blocked the podium in the main chamber of parliament, the speaker moved the session to an adjoining room and the budget was voted through on a show of hands. Opposition MPs say they weren’t allowed to speak and that the procedure was so chaotic that it’s unclear if there was a quorum to hold the vote.
Opposition MPs plan to continue their sit-in in parliament into January.
“It’s completely unacceptable and absolutely against all the rules for the opposition to take over the speaker’s chair,” Duda said, adding that he’s observing the situation closely and calling for calm on all sides.
That’s not going to be much satisfaction to the opposition, which wants Duda to take a more active role and intervene directly to end the crisis.
But the president made clear that’s not going to happen because he closely identifies with PiS and its goals. He’s sometimes denounced as a “notary,” who obediently signs all the legislation passed by Law and Justice. Fakt, the country’s largest circulation paper, on Wednesday called Kaczyński “the president of the president.”
“I haven’t left the PiS program,” Duda said.“I signed the program because I agreed with it; that’s why I joined the party … I want to laugh, it’s simply embarrassing when the opposition calls on me not to sign laws bringing in the program of PiS.”
It was Kaczyński who plucked Duda from the back benches of the European Parliament last year to be his party’s presidential candidate. The two are close, using the familiar form “ty” when addressing each other, a privilege that Kaczyński only gives out sparingly.
In recent days Duda has met with opposition leaders (he uses the stiffer more formal form of address with most of them) and with Kaczyński and other PiS chiefs to see if there’s a way to end the stand-off in parliament.
But whatever he said to Kaczyński who sat at the round table in his office in the presidential palace earlier this week, he doesn’t seem to have made a significant impact on the PiS leader. On Wednesday, Kaczyński held a press conference together with Prime Minister Beata Szydło and other PiS leaders to address the situation.
“We are dealing with the acceptance of criminal actions,” Kaczyński said of the opposition sit-in.
After the PiS press conference, Grzegorz Schetyna, the leader of Civic Platform, the largest opposition party, said, “there is no new proposition” from the ruling party.
Kaczyński built his party’s support on a potent combination of generous social programs targeted at the country’s poorest people and nationalism aimed at boosting pride in the country after what he sees as years of cosmopolitan fecklessness under Civic Platform and its leader Donald Tusk, who is now president of the European Council.
Duda shares that vision.
He said his proudest achievements as president were signing legislation paying out a monthly baby bonus to larger families and a recent bill lowering the retirement age — both steps that many economists fear will make public finances unsustainable, but which are hugely popular with PiS’s core electorate.
He also revels in national symbolism. Hanging behind Duda’s desk is a gargantuan painting showing pre-war Polish cavalry units galloping past Józef Piłsudski, the authoritarian leader who led the country to independence.
“The head of the Polish armed forces and above him is a painting that every general when he comes in here feels good about. It’s the symbol of the Polish army, the Polish cavalryman,” Duda said with pride while looking up at the painting.
PARIS — A Republican congressman asked a top U.S. intelligence official to look into reports that France’s National Front sought loans from Russia, according to a letter cited by satirical weekly Le Canard Enchainé.
In the letter, which was dated November 28, Mike Turner (Ohio, Republican) allegedly addressed James Clapper, director of National Intelligence, asking for “additional details” on Russian financing for the National Front and a “campaign” to undermine countries whose interests are not aligned with Russia’s.
The letter mentions a sum of $30 million requested by the National Front from Russia. Party leader Marine Le Pen denied to French media Wednesday having requested $30 million.
In 2014, the National Front acknowledged receiving €9 million in funding from a Russian-backed bank. The party has also sought additional funds from various banks, including Russian ones, to underwrite Le Pen’s presidential campaign next year.
Turner’s office and the National Front’s treasurer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
As European commissioners convened Wednesday for their final meeting of 2016, some of the challenges that have raised a large question mark over Western civilization were once again on full display, as were the EU’s own challenges in responding to those challenges.
With Berlin now added to the list of European capitals that have been targets of terror attacks, senior EU officials discussed efforts to combat terrorism, including new steps to cut off financing by fighting money laundering, restricting cash flows and new common rules for freezing and seizing assets.
Dimitris Avramopoulos, the commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship, opened a press conference by exhorting Europe not to be cowed. “It is in times like these when we must stick together, as citizens, as neighbors, as Europeans,” he declared. “We must not give into fear and we must not alter our way of living, gathering and celebrating.”
The bored EU press corps, diminished in ranks by colleagues already departed for the holidays, fidgeted as Avramopoulos, who spoke in English and was translated into 20 languages, continued his speech.
“We must never renounce our basic principles and fundamental values that define our free and open societies,” Avramopoulos said.
Never renounce basic principles — unless, of course, you are the government of Poland, which has allegedly trampled on the rule of law to the great outrage of Brussels. Those latest developments in Poland, in which President Andzrej Duda has remade the constitutional court, apparently in violation of the Polish constitution, was the subject of the second Commission press conference of the day.
Commission First Vice President Frans Timmermans, who has struggled and failed all year to convince the Polish government to change course, said he would give Warsaw another two months to respond to the Commission’s latest expression of unhappiness.
“I have done my utmost, sometimes under difficult circumstances, to maintain the dialogue with the Polish government because I desperately want to solve this problem,” he said. “We do believe there is a persistent problem with the rule of law.”
Timmermans, who answered questions for about 10 minutes, was unable to provide any reason to expect a different outcome, but said he was giving the Poles more time anyway because… Well, just because. Never mind that thousands of Poles have taken to the streets to protest the latest steps to curb democratic freedoms, including limits on journalists’ access to parliament.
“We will not drop this issue,” Timmermans said. “We will use any instrument we have in our toolbox.”
Ah, the same toolbox that left EU leaders, including European Council Donald Tusk and Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, grimly acknowledging the EU’s powerlessness to stop the bloodshed in Syria at last week’s summit.
“I can’t say that my experience over the last year justifies optimism but I will try,” Timmermans said. It was not quite a New Year’s resolution. But almost.
At the meeting of the College of Commissioners earlier in the day, Juncker’s team discussed unfinished business, on such topics as visa reciprocity with the United States and Canada, and the EU’s customs union with Turkey. The Commission approved the temporary assignment of the digital economy portfolio to Vice President Andrus Ansip and the acquisition of Yahoo by Verizon, and it discussed the implications of NBC taking a stake in Euronews.
And, in a tradition of sweeping unflattering news under the rug just before a holiday break, the Commission said it had reprimanded but not punished former Commissioner Neelie Kroes for violating disclosure rules. Under a confidential agreement, she was apparently cleared of accepting transitional allowances that should have been reduced because of her outside income.
Before leaving the stage at the news conference, Timmermans fielded a question about the “cooperation and verification mechanism” for Romania and Bulgaria — a process by which the EU has been trying to impose the conditions set 10 years ago when the two countries joined the EU with strings attached, particularly in relation to fighting corruption and overhauling their judicial systems.
Asked if he had discussed a timeline for ending that process in a recent meeting with Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, Timmermans said: “I never give any indications, that’s what I always tell to all my interlocutors from both Romania and Bulgaria. It is not in the interest of the process to formulate an end date of that process.”
And with that he closed the press conference, setting the stage for 2017 when Brussels will continue the processing of the process with no end in sight.
If 2016 was tough, 2017 may be no easier.
It will start with renewed discussions about how to save Greece from economic Armageddon. That process had seemed to be going pretty well until a feud erupted last week over the surprise plan by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to give a Christmas bonus to the poorest of Greek pensioners. That drew the rage of Germany and prompted the European Stability Mechanism to suspend its short-term debt relief for Greece — measures that actually hadn’t started yet. The Eurogroup meeting in January may decide if those measures ever move forward.
Europe will then race onward toward the start of formal negotiations over Britain’s exit from the EU, followed by national elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany. Buckle your seatbelt. The process could be bumpy.
The European Commission will decide in January whether to change its relationship with Euronews — which it part-funds — because of management upheaval and rumors that NBC is buying a large stake in the company.
The matter was raised Wednesday, at the request of Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, at the final commissioners’ meeting of the year.
Sources told POLITICO the Commission is “analyzing” its involvement with the media group as its four-year contract runs out at the end of the month.
Euronews is a private company, run since last year by Egyptian businessman Naguib Sawiris. The Commission does not have a seat on the company’s board, but has a “framework partnership” worth €30 million a year to support EU affairs coverage and some linguistic services.
Günther Oettinger, the European commissioner for the digital economy and society, who is in charge of Commission media policy, met with NBC president Deborah Turness and Euronews CEO Michael Peters on December 1 to discuss the partnership.
A Commission spokesperson said it was “too soon” to make a decision as “to our knowledge this deal [with NBC] has not been finalized yet.” A Commission source said payments to Euronews will continue between the contract ending in December and the Commission’s decision in January.
If some staffers are hoping a partnership with the U.S. media giant could boost the company, an internal memo seen by POLITICO is wary of “the idea of saving our TV channel with the help of a big American actor,” a move that could indicate that “management doesn’t know where we are going.”
Euronews was launched in 1992 is a Europe-wide TV channel based in Lyon, providing news in 13 languages.
Even after officially winning the Electoral College vote this week, Donald Trump is still litigating his presidential victory, firing off a fresh set of tweets on Wednesday claiming he could have also won the popular vote if he had wanted to.
“Campaigning to win the Electoral College is much more difficult & sophisticated than the popular vote. Hillary focused on the wrong states!” Trump wrote on Twitter on Wednesday morning. That post went up minutes after an initial post with similar language was put up and then quickly deleted from Trump’s account.
“I would have done even better in the election, if that is possible, if the winner was based on popular vote — but would campaign differently,” Trump wrote in the second of his three-post Twitter flurry on Wednesday. “I have not heard any of the pundits or commentators discussing the fact that I spent FAR LESS MONEY on the win than Hillary on the loss!” he continued in the third.
The Manhattan billionaire handily won last month’s presidential election, a victory certified this week when the Electoral College officially voted him to be the nation’s next commander in chief. But those otherwise victorious moments have been clouded by the fact that it was Democrat Hillary Clinton, not Trump, who won the nationwide popular vote by nearly 3 million ballots.
That his win was anything other than resounding has seemingly created an itch that Trump has been unable to resist scratching.
It is not the first time Trump has used Twitter to bolster his Electoral College victory. Late last month, Trump wrote on Twitter that “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally,” a baseless claim that he did not back with any evidence. Hours later, he added, again without evidence, that there had been “Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California — so why isn’t the media reporting on this? Serious bias — big problem!”
Trump officially won the Electoral College on Monday when 304 of his earned 306 electors cast ballots for him, with just two defectors in Texas casting votes for Ohio Gov. John Kasich and former Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas), respectively. After a last-ditch effort to mount an Electoral College challenge to Trump, it was Clinton who hemorrhaged more electoral votes, albeit in an election she was certain to lose.
Clinton’s ultimately meaningless popular vote victory came largely thanks to California, the nation’s most populous state and among its most liberal, where Trump lost by more than 4 million votes. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, one of Trump’s most vocal supporters and prominent surrogates during the campaign, noted Wednesday morning on Fox News that without California, where the president-elect did not campaign because it was certain to land in Clinton’s column, the popular vote would have matched the Electoral College result.
“Look, this is the football season. A team can have more yards and lose the game. What matters is how many points you put on the board. The Electoral College is the points,” Gingrich said. “Ironically, the amateur understood the Electoral College mattered. The so-called professional forgot the Electoral College mattered, and that’s what mattered.”
Despite the popular vote loss, Trump’s team has sought to characterize his Electoral College win — which came thanks to narrow wins in states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — as a landslide that handed the incoming administration a mandate to govern as it sees fit. But according to PolitiFact, Trump’s percentage of the Electoral College was lower than that of 12 post-World War II winners and bigger than that of just five. Democrats have argued that without the popular vote, Trump’s win was anything but a mandate.
Former President Bill Clinton scoffed at the notion that Trump might have such a mandate when he takes office next month, telling The Record-Review, a small weekly newspaper in Westchester County, New York, that his victory in 1992 had been a true landslide.
“Landslide? I got something like 370 electoral votes,” Clinton said in the interview published last Friday, recalling his 1992 total. “That was a landslide.”
Of course, Clinton won in 1992 thanks at least in part to independent candidate Ross Perot, the Texas billionaire who launched an independent White House bid that siphoned votes away from incumbent President George H.W. Bush. Clinton won reelection in 1996 with an even greater Electoral Vote total of 379.
In that same local newspaper interview, which took place in a small bookstore, Clinton told the reporter that Trump “doesn’t know much” but that “one thing he does know is how to get angry, white men to vote for him.” The president-elect took issue with that phrase, using it as another opportunity to attack the Clinton campaign for its inability to win despite numerous advantages.
“He ‘doesn’t know much,’ especially how to get people, even with an unlimited budget, out to vote in the vital swing states (and more),” Trump said on Tuesday of Clinton in a message that spanned two posts to Twitter. “They focused on wrong states.”
The man wanted by German police in connection with Monday’s terror attack in Berlin in which 12 people were killed was known to authorities and should have been deported, according to local officials.
The suspect, identified by police as being from Tunisia, arrived in Germany in July 2015 and had been “highly mobile,” living in Freiburg, Berlin and North Rhine-Westphalia, the latter region’s interior minister Ralf Jäger said at a press conference Wednesday afternoon.
German authorities have issued a European arrest warrant naming the suspect as 24-year-old Anis Amri, and a €100,000 reward has been offered for information leading to his capture. Police described him as “armed and dangerous.”
From February this year, Amri primarily resided in Berlin but his asylum claim was processed in Kleve in North Rhine-Westphalia, Jäger said. The application was denied in June on the grounds that the man did not have valid ID papers. Jäger said German authorities contacted their counterparts in Tunis, but they denied that Amri was a Tunisian citizen. He uses several aliases.
The suspect was considered a “threat” by federal security services, Jäger confirmed. He also said an investigation had been launched into the man by North Rhine-Westphalia security officials, who feared he may have been plotting an attack. The investigation was being carried out in Berlin.

The suspect was in contact with a terrorist network, Jäger said, but warned: “It has not yet been established that the suspect was part of the attack.”
German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière had confirmed earlier on Wednesday that police launched a Europe-wide manhunt for a new suspect at midnight.
“We’re working under high pressure and investigating in all directions,” the minister said. “We are looking for a suspect across Europe.”
Amri was identified as a suspect after asylum documents were found in the cab of the truck used in the attack.
The interior minister refused to confirm media reports on the suspect’s identity, but a tweet by the interior ministry used the hashtag “Tunisian” in a post quoting de Maizière’s comments. The ministry later apologized and deleted the tweet, saying: “The use of the word was not meant as a confirmation of the suspect’s citizenship.”
Raids were carried out Wednesday in Emmerich, North Rhine-Westphalia, where the suspect is thought to have briefly stayed in a refugee center, local newspaper Rheinische Post reported.
Police initially arrested a suspect believed to be a Pakistani asylum seeker who had evaded immigration authorities’ attempts to question him after he arrived in the country a year ago, De Maizière said Tuesday.
But in a statement Tuesday evening police said the man had been released as “the investigations thus far have not produced urgent suspicion against the suspect.”
“We have to assume it was a terrorist attack,” Chancellor Angela Merkel, dressed in black, told reporters Tuesday.
That was confirmed hours later when Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, calling the driver of the truck a “soldier.”
Among the victims was a man found dead in the passenger seat of the Polish-owned truck, who had been shot with a pistol.
Peter Frank, the German federal prosecutor, said the owner of the truck was not worried prior to the attack as the vehicle was scheduled to travel to Berlin and the GPS system had not been turned off.
Merkel, whose open-doors policy toward refugees has attracted criticism from some in her conservative party, and has contributed to the rise of the anti-immigrant party Alternative for Germany (AfD) on the far Right, said: “It will be especially hard for us to take if it is confirmed that the person who committed this attack sought protection and asylum in Germany.”
Whoever carried out the attack “will be punished accordingly,” Merkel said, but Germany would “find the strength” to uphold its values and live “freely, together and openly,” she said.
Until Monday’s incident, Germany had been spared the kind of large-scale atrocities suffered by its neighbors in recent years, including France, Belgium, Britain and Spain. German security officials have long insisted that it was only a matter of time before their country was hit too, and they have kept the country on high alert, warning that many German citizens have joined the jihadists in Syria and Iraq, and that some have returned to Germany and may be planning attacks.
French President François Hollande and Belgium’s Charles Michel — whose countries suffered terrorist attacks in 2015 and 2016 for which ISIL claimed responsibility — expressed their solidarity with the people of Berlin, as did European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and other leaders.
The AfD wasted no time in blaming the incident on Merkel’s policy of welcoming asylum-seekers. While the party voiced its condolences, Marcus Pretzell, a senior member of the European Parliament for the AfD, said in a tweet: “When will the German state strike back? When will this damned hypocrisy end? These are Merkel’s dead.”
Merkel has said she will run for a fourth term as chancellor in national elections due next autumn, when the AfD is expected to take its first seats in the Bundestag, the lower house of the federal parliament in Berlin. Law and order and migration policy are expected to figure prominently in the campaign.
Monday’s tragedy in Berlin recalls the July 14 attack in Nice, when 39-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel drove a truck into a crowd celebrating Bastille Day, killing 85 people and injuring 434. ISIL later claimed responsibility for the attack, as it did for the gun and suicide-bomb attacks in Paris and Brussels.
 
Donald Trump wrote a series of letters to the Scottish government complaining about wind farms close to his Aberdeenshire golf course in which he addressed former First Minister Alex Salmond as “Mad Alex” and said Scotland would become a “third world wasteland.”
The letters, revealed in the Huffington Post following a freedom of information request, show the now president-elect of the U.S. waging war on wind turbines, which he called “monsters.”
In the letters, sent between 2011 and 2013, Trump berated Salmond, telling him that his dream of Scottish independence would be “gone with the wind” if he continued to support wind farms, and asked if he wanted “to be known as ‘Mad Alex — the man who destroyed Scotland’?
Trump insisted that his motives were to “save Scotland” and “honor my mother,” who was born in Scotland.
Trump purchased his resort near Aberdeen in 2006, but he soured on Scotland and its leaders after an 11-turbine wind farm was proposed near the course. Trump took his opposition all the way to the highest court in the U.K. But in a unanimous decision, the Supreme Court rejected his case in 2015.
He told Salmond that “wind power doesn’t work,” suggested that he “let them ruin the coastline of Sweden first,” and warned that Scotland “will become a third world wasteland that investors will avoid.”
Salmond responded just once, writing: “I don’t expect you to support the development of offshore wind in Scotland. But I hope this letter will help you to understand the position of the Scottish government in terms of the importance we place on this industry’s great potential.”
Trump and Salmond were once friends, but the wind farm spat ended that relationship, with Salmond accusing the mogul of failing to keep his promises to the local community, including providing thousands of new jobs.
Trump has been far from quiet about offshore turbines, which he said would spoil views of the coastal course, the Trump International Golf Links. The incoming commander-in-chief has sent at least 60 tweets about the project since 2012.
He continued his fight even after winning the U.S. election, telling UKIP’s Nigel Farage to oppose offshore developments like the one near his course.
The Swedish company Vattenfall announced in July that it was moving ahead with the project, formally known as the European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, but the Trump Organization said it would continue its efforts to stop it.
A Slovenian farmhand being knocked off a bale of hay could result in motor racing being shut down in the U.K. and Ireland.
That’s a potential outcome from an EU court ruling that calls for all vehicles to be covered for third-party losses, no matter where they are being driven.
The case dates from 2007, when Damijan Vnuk was knocked off a ladder by a reversing tractor and demanded that he be paid compensation. Vnuk’s lawyers argued that the EU’s 2009 Motor Insurance Directive meant the tractor driver should pay up.
The driver and his insurance company disagreed, saying his insurance policy only covered accidents that happened while on a public road, not while reversing on private land.
The court battle made its way to the European Court of Justice, which in 2014 sided with Vnuk and ruled that the EU directive required insurance policies to cover all possible third-party accidents in all places and at all times.
In some countries, including the U.K. and Ireland, governments had interpreted the law as meaning that it only applies to vehicles driven on public roads. The judgment means that those national laws must now be changed to ensure that all vehicles must now be insured for third-party losses, including Formula One racing cars, mobility scooters, antique trams and Segways.
EU countries are given around two years to update their laws after an ECJ ruling, if necessary. In the case of the Vnuk ruling, that time period has now passed, meaning governments could be sued by individuals who are injured by uninsured vehicles.
“While it’s only fair that a Slovenian farmworker being knocked off a ladder by a tractor trailer should receive compensation, it is outrageous that this ruling has the potential to make insurance so expensive so as to have a devastating effect on amateur motorsport,” said British Tory MEP Syed Kamall. “That’s not exactly a positive argument for remaining in the EU single market.”
Motor racing events could be shut down due to the ruling because obtaining liability insurance to cover all possible accidents, involving spectators and other drivers, would be prohibitively expensive.
“Vnuk extends motor insurance to areas which are uninsurable,” said Steve Kenward, CEO of the Motorcycle Industry Association. “Make no mistake, if the government implements this, British motorcycle sport will be forced to cease its activities in the U.K. Motorcycle racing and off-road sport will become a thing of history.”
In a consultation released Wednesday by the British government, Transport Minister Andrew Jones laid out options to tackle the problem.
“All government ministers face challenges on a daily basis, some more vexing than others,” wrote Jones, who pointed out that the U.K. has to comply with EU law while it remains a member of the bloc. “We have no choice but to change the law.”
He suggested that any change introduced to bring U.K. motor insurance law into line with the ruling could include a sunset clause, “depending on the progress of EU exit negotiations.” However, if the U.K. opts for a soft Brexit and remains in the single market, the directive would continue to apply.
The U.K. government is also worried about cost implications of the ruling on pensioners, saying it was “keen that people who use both mobility scooters and powered wheelchairs remain safe, mobile and independent.”
Despite the European Commission having committed to updating the directive to deal with the U.K.’s concerns, any changes would require the backing of both the Council of the EU and the European Parliament.
Whatever the rules governing travel between Britain and the Continent after Brexit, there are plenty of practicalities for the transport industry that will need to be ironed out during the U.K.’s negotiations with the rest of the EU.
POLITICO got hold of a draft paper by the European Parliament’s Transport and Tourism Committee which details the effects impending separation will have on its legislative agenda.
British-based airlines and train operators will push hard to retain access to the Continent. It is by no means certain the U.K. will remain in open sky arrangements with the other 27 EU countries, which allow them to fly through other countries’ air space, potentially piling on costs for U.K. airlines if they need to pay more to fly between airports.
Brexit could be good news for passengers though, with air passenger rights potentially strengthened because British airlines would no longer have a say on any new regulation. Brits have traditionally opposed greater legal protections for passengers, for example increased compensation for delays and cancellations.
Whether or not the U.K. remains a member of the EU’s aviation and rail regulators will also determine whether London has to create an expensive parallel certification method for new aircraft, or how train interoperability and safety rules will be handled, the committee paper notes.
British ports could be in line for a boost if they are no longer part of EU state-aid rules that restrict how much governments can support their docks. Otherwise, an independent Britain won’t find life on the seas is suddenly free from red tape as regulation is covered by the U.N.’s International Maritime Organization, not by the EU.
Also look out for debate about social issues for drivers, on things such as training and required rest times, among the threads when Brexit negotiations formally begin in spring 2017. The committee has flagged these as a key focus for talks with the U.K.
None of this means much in terms of any eventual deal with Britain just yet — the European Parliament will have to consent to the final agreement but this kind of briefing is a long way from a negotiating position.
But it does reveal the kind of briefings parliamentary committees are preparing for submission early in the New Year — and just how many strands of regulation will need to be on the table when Prime Minister Theresa May finally pulls the trigger and begins talks.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
Brussels will give Poland two months to respond to “additional recommendations” on how to address concerns over respect for the rule of law, European Commission First Vice President Frans Timmermans told reporters Wednesday.
Emerging from the last meeting of European commissioners before Christmas, at which Poland’s constitutional crisis was discussed, Timmermans said the Commission’s previous recommendations to Warsaw “have not been solved.”
Last weekend saw demonstrations against the governing Law and Justice (PiS) party’s plans to curtail media access to parliament and an irregular vote on the annual budget. And on Tuesday, critics accused President Andrzej Duda of avoiding due process by directly appointing a new acting head of Poland’s Constitutional Tribunal, the powerful body at the center of the Commission’s initial complaint against PiS in January.
“There is a persistent problem with the rule of law,” Timmermans said, adding that the principle was “the basis on which a whole European structure is built.”
The new recommendations, almost a year after the Commission first launched a rule of law procedure, will be made public “shortly,” Timmermans said. He added that based on Poland’s response the Commission will determine whether “further measures would be taken.”
Asked whether the Commission would trigger an Article 7 procedure against Poland, which would allow for its voting rights in the Council of the EU to be suspended, Timmermans said: “We will not exclude any measure that we can take in the framework of the rule of law, but we will cross the bridge when we get there.”
In July, the Commission said there was a “systemic threat” to the rule of law in the Central European country and called for the Constitutional Tribunal to be allowed to act as “an effective constitutional review.”
Neelie Kroes was on Wednesday given a formal reprimand for breaking ethics rules by her former employer, the European Commission, but will not face legal action.
Media reports in late September revealed that the Dutch former commissioner — who between 2004 and 2014 was in charge of competition and later the digital agenda — failed to disclose in her declaration of interests that she was listed as a director of the Bahamian company Mint Holdings Limited.
Kroes apologized and Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker asked the Commission’s ethics committee to decide whether to launch legal action.
According to an internal document discussed by the college of commissioners Wednesday, the ethics committee decided there was not enough evidence to take action.
Romania’s Social Democrats (PSD) and their liberal coalition partners ALDE proposed on Wednesday to make Sevil Shhaideh, a Muslim woman from the ethnic Tatar minority, the country’s next prime minister following the PSD’s landslide election victory earlier this month.
If her nomination is approved by President Klaus Iohannis and parliament, Shhaideh would be the first woman and the first Muslim to occupy the job in a country where the majority of the population are Orthodox Christians. The PSD’s election campaign was partly based on promoting Orthodox values.
Shhaideh, 51, worked closely with PSD party leader Liviu Dragnea when he was minister for regional development and succeeded him in that post in the PSD-led government of Victor Ponta, who resigned amid public protest in November 2015. The pair have known each other for 15 years and Dragnea was a witness at Shhaideh’s marriage in 2011.
Despite her cabinet experience, Shhaideh doesn’t have a high profile in Bucharest, having spent most of her career in local politics in the coastal city of Constanţa, according to the media outlet Digi24. Her latest declaration of financial interests, from July 2015, shows she owns three buildings in Syria with her Syrian husband.
As leader of the party that won most seats in parliament, Dragnea wanted the post himself but Iohannis had pledged not to appoint anyone with a criminal record. Dragnea got a suspended jail sentence this year for trying to rig a referendum in 2012, making him ineligible under a 2001 law.
Dragnea maintains his innocence but said he didn’t want to create a “useless conflict” with the president by insisting on becoming prime minister. Instead, he was elected head of the Chamber of Deputies on Wednesday, with 216 votes for and 101 votes against. Dragnea was the only candidate.
Nicușor Dan, leader of the anti-corruption movement Union Save Romania which came third in the elections, said Shhaideh lacks experience for the prime ministership and was only nominated because of her loyalty to Dragnea.
This article has been corrected to clarify that Shhaideh belongs to the Tatar minority in Romania.
German police are searching for a new suspect linked to Monday’s Christmas market attack after asylum documents belonging to a Tunisian national were found in the cab of the truck used during the attack, local media report Wednesday.
According to the reports, police are searching hospitals in the Berlin region to see if the Tunisian, believed to be in his early twenties and known by a number of different names, is among the injured.
German press agency DPA on Wednesday said police plan an “imminent” operation in the North Rhine-Westphalia region in connection with the attack. His asylum papers were processed in the region, according to Bild.
Monday’s attack, which Islamic State claimed responsibility for late Tuesday, killed 12 people and injured 48. Authorities on Tuesday released their only suspect saying that investigations had failed to produce any “urgent suspicion” against him.
Berlin police chief Klaus Kandt on Tuesday night said authorities received around 500 tip-offs about the attacker.
The police will give a press statement later Wednesday.
Authorities will beef up security measures in Germany in order to protect the public on New Year’s Eve in response to Monday’s attack on a Berlin Christmas market, Interior Minister Thomas de Mazière told Bild newspaper in an interview published late Tuesday.
De Mazière also said a “serious terror threat” existed in Germany even before large numbers of refugees started to arrive in the country last year.
“We will have to live with that [terror] in the liberal West,” he said, adding the Berlin attack must not “destroy our liberated life.”
“Police and security authorities are doing everything to ensure that our society can remain free and safe, and have prevented many attacks by doing so,” De Mazière said.
Authorities on Tuesday released their only suspect, a 23-year old Pakistani asylum seeker, saying investigations had failed to produce any “urgent suspicion” against him.
Former UKIP leader Diane James, who resigned in October after just 18 days on the job, told BBC Radio 5 on Wednesday she quit because her relationship with the party’s “old guard” had become “increasingly difficult.”
“One can obviously continue to bang your head against a brick wall, going to bed at night hoping things might change and that you might be able to make a breakthrough,” she said. “But when it became clear I couldn’t make that breakthrough, I felt it was the right decision for me and the credibility of the party that someone else assume the mantle.”
James also spoke about an awkward on-stage kiss with former party leader Nigel Farage after she was elected as party leader in September.
“Nigel and I spoke just before I went on stage and he said, ‘Look this is what we’re going to do. The plan is I’m going to give you a greeting and there’s going to be a kiss on the cheek,'” she said. “And we agreed which side the kiss was going to be … I went to him with the appointed cheek and he went the other way … That’s why there was a little bit of awkwardness.”
Former MEP Paul Nuttall was elected UKIP leader last month.
James announced late November that she was quitting the party and would serve as an independent MP instead.
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage faces legal action after he insinuated Brendan Cox, the widower of murdered British Labour MP Jo Cox, supported extremism through the Hope Not Hate organization.
Farage on Tuesday said organizations like Hope Not Hate, an anti-racism group, “masquerade as being lovely and peaceful, but actually pursue violent and very undemocratic means.” He also said Cox “would know more about extremists than me” because of his connection to the group.
Hope Not Hate slammed the comments and threatened legal action unless Farage retracted them and publicly apologized.
“That Nigel Farage made his remarks in the context of a discussion about Jo Cox, who was so brutally murdered earlier this year, makes them all the more poisonous and hateful,” the group said in a statement on Twitter.

A Labour MP has asked British Prime Minister Theresa May to investigate whether Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson breached the ministerial code by plugging his recent book on Winston Churchill while on an official visit to Serbia last month.
Johnson discussed the biography and reportedly signed copies of the book at a store in Belgrade on the second day of his trip in November.
“As you are aware the ministerial code sets out strict rules forbidding any such conflicts and further states that it is the personal responsibility of ministers to avoid conflicts of interests,” Shadow Minister Andrew Gwynne wrote in a letter to May, which he published on Twitter Wednesday.
Labour also asked May to clarify if she knew of Johnson’s financial interests from book sales before the visit and if she had “agreed action regarding these financial interests.”
The Foreign Office last month stated the event, which was billed in Serbian as being about The Churchill Factor, was “absolutely not promotional,” the Guardian reported.

The terrorist attacks in Berlin and Ankara — and warnings that more attacks may come during the holiday season — have cast a new spotlight on the pace of Donald Trump’s homeland security, intelligence and counterterrorism appointments, and on whether he is prioritizing politics and ideology over substance when it comes to these critical roles.l
Despite his campaign’s focus on more aggressively fighting terrorism, Trump has yet to name a White House homeland security and counterterrorism adviser to succeed Lisa Monaco, who currently holds the job under President Barack Obama. He also has not yet said who will take key positions at the Department of Homeland Security, including undersecretary for intelligence and analysis and undersecretary for policy.
Nor has he settled on a director of National Intelligence, an appointment of special urgency given that its current occupant, James Clapper, said last month that he will retire at noon on Inauguration Day, January 20. Clapper plays a central role in assessing terrorist threats domestically and abroad.
“Yesterday’s events serve as a reminder of how important it is to get the right people in place on counterterrorism on Day One,” Luke Hartig, a former senior director for counterterrorism on Obama’s NSC, said in an interview on Tuesday.
And although Trump still doesn’t take office for a month, leaving time for top appointments, Obama officials worry that some representatives from Trump’s agency-specific “landing teams” lack experience and policy expertise. That could slow the vital work of a smooth handoff from one presidency to another at a dangerous moment.
Some Trump officials have also created an impression that they are more focused on putting a political stamp on sensitive positions than on managerial competence and a smooth transition, these sources said. “It feels like an ideological change is coming much more quickly than a day-to-day operational change,” said one source familiar with transition planning.
Perhaps the most glaring unfilled post is Monaco’s. As Obama’s top counterterrorism aide, she is often the first to brief Obama about terrorist plots and attacks and coordinates the government’s response to a crisis. Monaco is also the White House’s point woman on cybersecurity — an issue sure to dominate Trump’s tenure in the coming years.
“One big step would be appointing a new White House homeland security and counterterrorism adviser as soon as possible. It’s surprising to me that the Trump team has appointed four of the top positions at the NSC but still hasn’t landed on this job,” added Hartig, now a fellow at the New America Foundation and executive director of National Journal’s Network Science Initiative.
Soon after his election last month, Trump named Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as his national security adviser and K.T. McFarland as Flynn’s deputy. Last week, he tapped Lt. Gen Keith Kellogg to be NSC chief of staff and author and commentator Monica Crowley (no relation to the author) to be NSC senior director for strategic communications, a job whose primary duties include speechwriting and press management.
Potentially complicating the picture is the fact that Flynn is keenly interested in the U.S. campaign against radical Islam and has deep experience in counterterrorism, including as an intelligence officer in Afghanistan.
That has generated speculation that Monaco’s position could simply be eliminated, possibly with Flynn himself absorbing its duties. One source with ties to the transition denied that, however. A Trump aide did not respond to a request for comment.
Still, the notion causes some alarm. “Is it true that @realDonaldTrump is eliminating the homeland security advisor position within the WH? If so, why??” David Axelrod, Obama’s former senior adviser, tweeted on Tuesday morning.
Trump has not overlooked homeland security entirely. He recently announced a Department of Homeland Security chief in retired Marine Corps Gen. John Kelly. And on December 16, he met for 45 minutes at Trump Tower in New York with the department’s current head, Jeh Johnson, for a conversation that included transition issues.
But given the extreme threat level from Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, which has staged regular attacks in the U.S. and Europe in recent months, experts call a smooth transition more essential than ever. Many consider the terrorist threat substantially higher than it was when Barack Obama took over from George W. Bush in January 2009, thanks to the rise of the Islamic State and the epidemic of homegrown terrorists radicalized over the internet.
Some believe that key decisions made during the 2000-2001 transition between the Bush and Clinton administrations may have impacted the Bush team’s readiness to deal with Al Qaeda. Bush’s team stripped Clinton’s top White House terrorism adviser, Richard E. Clarke, of his Cabinet rank, thereby restricting Clarke’s access to the president. Clarke later said that demotion had the effect of muting his urgent warnings about the growing Al Qaeda threat, which he charged the Bush team was slow to acknowledge and develop a policy against, leaving the U.S. vulnerable to the 9/11 attacks.
At a meeting with reporters earlier this month, Monaco noted that she had been unable to meet with her as-yet-unnamed successor. “I am eager to sit down with that person,” she said. Monaco added that the NSC staff has produced “reams of information” for the incoming Trump team.
At the Department of Homeland Security, meanwhile, Trump still has several key posts to fill, assuming he does not intend to keep on Obama appointees in terrorism-related jobs. But some of his transition aides have shown a keen interest in redefining the department’s mission and ideology.
For instance, Katharine Gorka, a Trump landing team member with a background in the self-proclaimed anti-jihad movement, has told officials who manage DHS’ Countering Violent Extremism program — which issues grants to support efforts at the community level to stop radicalization — that the program is likely to be renamed Countering Radical Islam or Countering Violent Jihad.
That would signal a new mission for a program that also works to prevent non-Islamic extremism. Trump and many of his advisers have repeatedly said that the Obama administration has not battled radical Islam forcefully enough.
One source who has met with transition officials said that the challenge of structuring and staffing the National Security Council has created tension for Trump transition officials. A provision tucked into a huge defense bill passed by Congress this month capped the size of the NSC to 200 staffers, a move meant to reverse a recent trend in which even some former Obama officials concede the NSC staff’s and influence grew too large.
By some accounts, the NSC staff peaked at about 400 under Obama, though the White House says its size is now half that. A late November report by BreakingDefense cited two Trump advisers who said they hoped to pare down the NSC to as few as 40 to 60 staff members.
BELFAST — On Monday, lawmakers in Northern Ireland were supposed to discuss a draft budget. Instead, there were farcical scenes including two walkouts by opposition MPs and the Northern Irish first minister, Arlene Foster, losing a “no confidence” vote but surviving anyway.
Northern Ireland is no stranger to Christmas political crises. In recent years, Belfast’s delicate political institutions have been threatened by a succession of year-end emergencies. But unlike the ghosts of Christmas past, this year’s difficulties have nothing to do with flags, parades or the legacy of the 30-year-long Troubles that cost more than 3,000 lives. At root are questions of competency and potential conflicts of interest that go to the heart of the challenges of government in post-conflict Northern Ireland.
Foster, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, stands accused of presiding over a botched public heating project that could cost cash-strapped Northern Ireland as much as £400 million.
As enterprise minister in 2012, Foster approved the creation of the Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) scheme. The idea was simple: encourage Northern Irish businesses to move away from fossil fuels. The incentives were generous: For every £1 spent on renewable fuel — typically wood pellets — the government would pay £1.60 in return.
Disastrously, payouts were not capped.
The scheme was finally halted early this year, by which time its overall cost had reached £1.18 billion. In one example cited in a report from the Northern Ireland audit office, a business taking part in the same scheme in Britain could collect about £192,000 over two decades by using a boiler all year round, but a Northern Irish firm doing the same could earn £860,000.
In a TV interview earlier this month, the DUP’s Jonathan Bell, who replaced Foster as enterprise minister, said party advisors attempted to delay the scheme’s closure and made attempts to remove references to Foster from the records on the project.
Bell has since been suspended by the DUP, which has denied all his claims. But the fire lit by the renewables scheme could do serious damage to Northern Ireland’s power-sharing government.
Under the terms of the 1998 Good Friday peace accord, Foster and her opposite number, Sinn Féin’s Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness, are effectively joint leaders of the executive. But on Monday, Foster issued a statement without McGuinness’ approval, prompting a mass walkout of all lawmakers but the DUP contingent.
After Foster addressed only her DUP colleagues, a confidence vote was held on her leadership. She lost by 39 votes to 36, with Sinn Féin abstaining. The vote was purely symbolic: the motion did not have the necessary levels of support from either unionist or nationalist lawmakers required by the assembly’s power-sharing rules.
Foster — who assumed the DUP leadership uncontested earlier this year and led the party to victory in May’s Northern Irish elections — cut a belligerent figure. While she apologized for the failures of the renewable heating scheme, she dismissed the no-confidence motion as “nothing short of an attempt at a constitutional coup d’état.”
“They can’t gang up and kick out the elected leaders of unionism,” said Foster, who left the Ulster Unionist Party for the DUP in 2003 largely because of the latter’s vehement opposition to power-sharing with Irish republicans.
Colum Eastwood, leader of the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), said the RHI scandal had uncovered “staggering incompetence” and that digging deeper “may uncover corruption.” The no-confidence motion was backed by the SDLP, Ulster Unionists, the cross-community Alliance party and a number of smaller parties.
On Monday evening, Sinn Féin announced that it would bring forward a motion in January “which deals comprehensively with the substantive issues surrounding this debacle.”
The republicans will call for an independent investigation into the renewables scheme, proposals to reduce the financial losses, and for Foster to step aside.
If the DUP leader decides to remain in office, elections would be a “distinct possibility,” warned Sinn Féin minister Conor Murphy.
However, a restructuring of the Northern Irish assembly complicates matters further. The number of parliamentarians is being reduced from 108 to 90 as the assembly is deemed too big, which could lead to the collapse of the power-sharing agreement, said professor Jon Tonge from Liverpool University.
“Sinn Féin could collapse the executive by walking out. If they felt the DUP would lose so many seats at a snap election that McGuinness would become first minister via Sinn Fein achieving largest party status, it could be game on. However, it’s risky as … their own vote is more flaky than was once the case, McGuinness has health issues and Sinn Féin’s own ministries wouldn’t want too much spotlight.”
For decades, politics in Northern Ireland has revolved almost entirely around constitutional issues — Nationalism and unionism,  green and orange. But since devolution from London almost a decade ago, the assembly at Stormont Castle has been dogged by a succession of distinctly non-tribal scandals, many involving the most outwardly puritanical party in U.K. politics, the DUP.
In 2010, Foster’s predecessor Peter Robinson was forced to stand aside after a BBC documentary revealed that his wife had procured £50,000 in loans to finance a restaurant for her teenage lover. She failed to declare her interest in the business despite sitting on the council that granted its operating license.
Robinson survived, going on to serve almost eight years as Northern Irish first minister, but questions over political propriety have remained. Having often criticized the financial dealings of politicians in Dublin, Northern Ireland’s unionists now find themselves in the spotlight.
“It was almost a thing that we prided ourselves on, when we looked down at grubby [Irish political party] Fianna Fáil and [former Irish PM] Charles Haughey. We northern Presbyterians wouldn’t be involved in this type of thing. But actually it looks like we are,” said John McCallister, former deputy leader of the Ulster Unionists.
Earlier this year, the National Assets Management Agency — the “bad bank” created by the Irish government in Dublin in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis — reported its former Northern Ireland advisor, Frank Cushnahan, to police over corruption allegations related to a €1.6 billion land sale to Cerebus, a U.S. company that has former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle as one of its bosses. Cushnahan had been appointed on the recommendation of the DUP.
It also emerged that Northern Irish assembly speaker Robin Newton was an advisor to Charter NI, a community organization with links to the loyalist paramilitary Ulster Defence Association. Charter NI received £1.7 million in government funding this year.
Foster, the current first minister, has also been heavily criticized for inaction over Brexit. She campaigned to leave the European Union — although unlike her counterpart in London, David Cameron, there was no suggestion of her standing down when a majority of Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU.
Since then, she has rejected calls for an all-Ireland forum on Brexit and has struggled for relevance in the debate despite fears of the damage that a “hard border” could do to the fragile Northern Irish economy.
Johnny Byrne, lecturer in politics at the University of Ulster, said in the past scandals like the renewable heating scheme would have been dealt with “behind closed doors.”
“In other parts of the democratic world the media have been able to flush out issues like this and this is only starting to happen here. Our politics is still based around orange and green tribalism. You are confined within the boundaries of your ethnic religious background. But this hasn’t been about flags, violence, street protests, this has been about political ineptitude and financial irregularities.”
Islamic State has claimed responsibility for Monday’s attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, which killed 12 and injured 48.
The Berlin attacker is a terror group “soldier,” ISIL claimed via its news agency, Amaq, Reuters reported Tuesday.
“The executor of the operation … in Berlin is a soldier of the Islamic State and he executed the operation in response to calls to target nationals of the coalition countries,” the news agency said in a statement, according to Reuters.


BERLIN — As flags on government buildings across Germany hang at half-mast in homage to the victims of Berlin’s Christmas market attack, Angela Merkel’s opponents aren’t waiting to capitalize on the tragedy to weaken the 62-year-old chancellor’s 2017 re-election campaign.
With the perpetrator apparently still on the run, after police released the Pakistani asylum-seeker they arrested immediately after the attack that killed 12 people and injured 48, Merkel already faces accusations that her refugee policy put Germany in mortal danger.
“We must not be under any illusion. The environment for such deeds was imported negligently and systematically throughout the last year and a half,” said Frauke Petry, leader of the far-right party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD).
By leveraging public anger at Merkel’s decision in autumn 2015 to grant safe passage to refugees stranded in Hungary, the AfD has seen its support in  opinion polls rise from 4 percent in August 2015 to around 12 percent now. Following success in regional elections — it overtook Merkel’s conservatives in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern state in September — the anti-immigrant party is likely to enter the Bundestag, parliament’s lower house, in the fall.
Shortly before Monday’s attack in Berlin, German news agency DPA reported that the AfD leadership had chosen a campaign strategy that would focus on the concerns of ordinary people via what an internal document described as “carefully planned provocations.” It hopes to trigger nervous reactions from its rivals, and the more they try to stigmatize the party, ”the more positive this will prove for the party’s profile,” the DPA report quoted the document.
In retrospect, it sounds like the blueprint for the reaction of Marcus Pretzell, the AfD’s candidate in next year’s regional election in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, to Monday’s attack. Moments after the news broke, he tweeted: “These are Merkel’s dead.”
Ralf Stegner, deputy leader of the Social Democrats (SPD), responded by accusing Pretzell and his party of attempting to capitalize politically on the attack. It was a “disgusting political exploitation of this tragedy” when everyone should be showing “respect for the victims,” he wrote on Twitter.
The fact that it was the SPD — currently Merkel’s coalition allies, but which will challenge her for the chancellorship next year — that defended the chancellor is symptomatic of the problem she was already going to face in the campaign: Her welcoming attitude to the refugees won her new admirers among German center-left supporters but alienated her from some in the conservative wing of her own Christian Democrats (CDU) and the allied Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU).
“We owe it to the victims, those who were affected [by the attack] and the entire population that we should now think over and adjust our entire migration and security policy,” said Bavarian state premier and CSU leader Horst Seehofer on Tuesday morning, adding that he would discuss with the Bavarian state government the “possible implications and suggestions for [Merkel’s] federal government.”
So far, Seehofer’s repeated criticism of Merkel’s refugee policy have failed to make a lasting dent in her popularity. Now in her third term, her personal approval ratings are close to 60 percent despite waves of outrage to refugee-related events such the mass sexual assaults on women in Cologne on New Year’s Eve 2015, or the rape and murder of a college student in Freiburg in October, for which an Afghan asylum seeker was arrested.
Demonstrating her refusal to adopt the tone and language of the AfD to neutralize them as a political threat, Merkel told German TV earlier this month that if the Freiburg attacker turns out to be an Afghan refugee, he should be condemned “just like with any other murderer … But that shouldn’t be combined with a rejection of an entire group.”
Tackling the same issue head-on at her first statement in response to Monday’s atrocity, the chancellor — dressed in black — said: “We must assume at the current time that it was a terrorist attack.” She added: “I know that it would be particularly difficult for all of us to bear if it is confirmed that this deed was carried out by a person who sought protection and asylum in Germany.”
Sure enough, shortly afterwards German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said the man arrested on suspicion of carrying out Monday’s attack was a 23-year-old Pakistani who had applied for asylum in Germany. In a detail that could potentially be embarrassing for German authorities, the minister said immigration authorities had not been able to question the man about his asylum request because there was nobody who could provide interpretation into German from the man’s language, Balochi.
A few hours later, after media reports that German police believed they may have arrested the wrong man, federal prosecutor Peter Frank said police didn’t know for sure whether the man in police custody really was responsible, and that investigators should “get used to the idea that the suspect possibly isn’t the criminal or doesn’t belong to the criminal group.” Later in the day, authorities said the Pakistani man had been released.
Such confusion is likely to increase the pressure on Merkel to toughen up security measures. A taste of things to come came from the interior minister for the state of Saarland, the CDU’s Klaus Bouillon, who said in a radio interview that Berlin was in a state of war “even though some people, who always only want to see the good, don’t want to see this.” From now on, he said, police should use “heavy artillery” if necessary.
Hortense Goulard contributed reporting. 
The European Commission may update its warning to Poland over rule of law violations Wednesday, diplomats said, one day after the country’s president installed one of his appointed judges atop the nation’s highest court.
Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker brought forward the commissioners’ discussion at their weekly meeting by a month “to send a political signal” to Warsaw, a Commission source said. A diplomatic source attributed the move to the “acceleration of recent events.”
Demonstrations against the governing Law and Justice (PiS) have escalated over the right-wing party’s plans to curtail media access to parliament and over last week’s irregular vote on the annual budget, while Prime Minister Beata Szydło denounced a “wave of hate” unleashed by the opposition.
On Tuesday, Polish President Andrzej Duda appointed Julia Przyłębska as acting head of the Constitutional Tribunal, a day after the term of Andrzej Rzepliński ended. The Rzepliński-led court had ruled many of the government’s efforts to change the way the tribunal functioned were unconstitutional. Rzepliński also refused to allow three judges to be seated on the tribunal after finding that their election last year violated the constitution.
Critics charged that Duda avoided due process by directly appointing Przyłębska — a process made possible by three bills he signed into law at the end of Rzepliński’s last day, one of which gave him the right to appoint an acting president of the tribunal. Previously, the judges would decide on their president themselves.
In July, the Commission said there was a “systemic threat” to the rule of law in Poland and issued several recommendations, including calling for the tribunal to be allowed to exercise its function as “an effective constitutional review.”
Should progress not be made, Brussels said “resort can be had to the Article 7 procedure,” which would allow for Poland’s voting rights in the Council of the EU to be suspended.
Sources briefed on discussions between the Commission and Polish experts say the Berlaymont won’t trigger Article 7. Rather, one diplomat said it would “probably” issue a document that would refer to the recommendations issued in July as well as “new content.”
The man arrested by Berlin police in connection with Monday’s deadly attack on a Christmas market in Berlin has been released, the federal prosecutor said in a statement Tuesday.
“The investigations thus far have not produced urgent suspicion against the suspect,” the statement said.
The man who was released is believed to be a Pakistani asylum seeker who had evaded immigration authorities’ attempts to question him after he arrived in the country a year ago, Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said at a press conference earlier on Tuesday. The man had not been identified as a suspected terrorist prior to Monday’s events.
Earlier on Tuesday, Berlin police chief Klaus Kandt had cautioned: “It’s uncertain whether [the suspect] was really the driver” of the truck that was driven into the Christmas market, killing 12 and injuring dozens more.
LONDON — The U.K. government is drawing up contingency plans in case no deal can be struck with the EU on Brexit, Theresa May said in a signal that she is prepared to make a “clean break” from the bloc if necessary.
While insisting that she had “every expectation” that it would be possible to secure a “positive outcome” when Article 50 is triggered, the prime minister told MPs during an evidence session Tuesday that the government was looking at “all the options” with regard to the possible terms of Britain’s exit.
Asked whether contingency planning was taking place in the event that a deal on a new relationship was not secured – if, for example, the European Parliament vetoed a settlement – May told the House of Commons Liaison Committee: “We are looking at a variety of scenarios that could come forward in relation to the negotiation, the deal, the timing and what other opportunities would be there…We’re looking at all the options.”
However, May said EU leaders, including European Parliament President Martin Schulz and lead negotiator Guy Verhofstadt, whom she met in Brussels last week, had signaled their intention to ensure a “smooth and orderly” Brexit process.
Her statement regarding contingency planning followed questioning by Crispin Blunt, chair of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, who asked for assurance that May was “not going down the route of the last government,” which he said had failed, under David Cameron, to carry out contingency planning in the event that Britain voted to leave the EU.
Responding to concerns from businesses and financial institutions regarding the so-called “cliff-edge scenario” of Britain’s trading relationship with the EU changing overnight after Brexit, May told MPs that there may need to be a “period of implementation.”
She said this could apply not only to businesses but also to government and allow for “practical” adjustments to the new relationship.
But the likelihood and scale of such a transitional arrangement would depend on the kind of deal Britain secured with the EU, she added.
May was however non-comital when asked whether the final deal would be voted on by MPs, as ministers have previously signaled.
Asked by Brexit Committee chair Hilary Benn whether it was her intention that MPs would have a vote on the final deal when it had been negotiated, May said: “Parliament is going to have every opportunity to vote through the Great Repeal Bill on the various aspects of the relationship that we will be having with the European Union.” She later refused again to commit to a vote. The Great Repeal Bill will convert aspects of EU law into British law.
Her stance led to criticism from the pro-EU Liberal Democrats, which want a referendum on the final deal.
The party’s foreign affairs spokesman Tom Brake said it would be “absurd” for the European Parliament to have a say on the final Brexit deal, but not the British parliament.
PARIS — French far-right leader Marine Le Pen may have received funding from Russian-backed banks as thanks for supporting Russia’s annexation of Crimea, French investigative news site Mediapart reported Tuesday, citing text messages exchanged between two Russian officials.
In the messages, which Mediapart said it had obtained thanks to a hacking group called “Anonymous International,” Kremlin official Timur Prokopenko mentioned Le Pen dozens of times in exchanges with a person identified as Kostia. Anonymous International identified Kostia as Konstantin Rykov, a former pro-Putin MP who has a house in France and is known to have met with Le Pen.
A few days before Crimea was due to hold a referendum on Russia’s annexation, in March 2014, Prokopenko wrote to Kostia asking to bring Le Pen to Crimea as an “observer” during the referendum. “We really need it. I told my boss you were in contact with her???”
“Yes I will try to find out tomorrow,” answered Kostia.
Text messages then showed the two men in discussion about “funds,” saying that Le Pen was discussing the issue with National Front Vice President Florian Philippot, and that a member of the Russian foreign ministry would be in touch with Le Pen’s team.
In subsequent exchanges, Kostia told Prokopenko that Le Pen would not visit Crimea herself, but she would take an official stand on the subject. The National Front chief did just that on March 17, 2014, calling the referendum’s result “indisputable.”
A day earlier, Le Pen’s then-diplomatic adviser, Aymeric Chauprade (he has since left the National Front), traveled to Crimea as an “observer” for the referendum. He told media at the time that he had gone as a “geopolitical specialist” but also as Le Pen’s “special adviser.”
An aide to Chauprade told POLITICO that he had received no financial compensation for his trip to Crimea. The Front subsequently denied it had sent an official to Crimea in any “official” capacity.
On March 17, 2014 text messages showed Prokopenko writing: “Marine Le Pen officially recognized the results of the referendum in Crimea!”
“She did not betray our expectations ;),” replied Kostia.
“We will need to thank the French in some way. It’s important,” wrote Prokopenko.
On April 12, Le Pen traveled to Russia to meet the head of parliament, Serguei Narychkine, a Putin ally. A few days later, the National Front’s financial branch, Cotelec, received a payment of €2 million from a Cypriot company financed by Russian money. In September 2014, the party obtained a second loan of €9 million from the First Czech Russian Bank, which is Russian-backed.
On Tuesday, Le Pen denied that she had received the loan as a quid pro quo for her support of Russia’s annexation. “Because we got a loan, this is supposed to determine our international position? We have been on this [pro-Russia] position for a long time,” she was reported as saying by Le Monde.
Party treasurer Wallerand de Saint-Just told Mediapart he was “not aware” of what happened “prior to the signature” approving the loans.
“I have nothing to do with the international positions of Marine Le Pen. I only met with bank technicians,” he added.
Rykov did not respond to requests for comment from Mediapart.
Milan’s mayor Beppe Sala announced Tuesday he was returning to City Hall just days after temporarily standing down over his involvement in the scandal-hit Milan Expo 2015.
The Democratic Party politician took the unusual step of suspending himself last Thursday after local media reported that prosecutors were investigating his role in a case involving tender bids for the preparation of the Expo.
Now Sala has ended his self-imposed exile and in a statement denied any wrongdoing.
“I resume my job as a mayor, sure of my innocence in an accusation that does not condition my activity,” he wrote on Facebook.
Several top officials have been arrested in connection with the handling of the Milan Expo but Sala had not been officially implicated in the investigation until last week.
Another recent investigation revealed China’s and Ecuador’s pavilions at the show were built, at least in part, by the n’drangheta — one of Italy’s three most powerful mafias along with Sicily’s cosa nostra and Naples’ camorra. But Sala is not involved in that case.
The allegations dealt another blow to Matteo Renzi, who urged Sala to return to his role on Sunday.
Renzi stood down as Italian prime minister ten days ago after losing a referendum on constitutional reform but remains leader of the Democratic Party.
In September, Renzi said his aim was to make Milan a “model of responsibility” under Sala’s leadership and, especially since Rome came under the control of the 5Star movement, the country’s business capital represents the Democratic Party’s flagship local administration.
Milan was also one of the few cities where a majority of voters supported Renzi in the referendum.
National polls show the Democratic Party will face its greatest challenge from the 5Star movement, founded by comedian Beppe Grillo, in the general election that is officially scheduled for 2018 but could come as soon as next year.
Rome’s mayor Virginia Raggi led the 5Stars to a stunning victory in the Italian capital, where the Democratic Party has dominated since the 1970s, in June’s local elections. But since becoming mayor, her administration has been beset with resignations and internal fighting.
The 5Star movement is also facing allegations that prevent it making political capital from events in Milan.
Raffaele Marra, a top aide to Raggi, was arrested Friday on suspicion of corruption linked to a 2013 real estate deal.
While Raggi is in no way implicated in the investigation, her judgement has once again been called into question.
“All the movement has asked Virgina in different forms to remove this subject but the truth is that she trusted this character,” Alessandro Di Battista, one of the leaders of the movement, said on Sunday.
The case is especially embarrassing for a movement that was born at the end of last decade out of popular indignation against widespread corruption.
And it could be especially damaging for Luigi Di Maio, the 30-year-old deputy chair of the lower chamber, considered as the most likely prime minister should the 5Stars win the next general election.
Media reports say that he personally guaranteed that Marra was “clean.” But Di Maio denied the accusation in a statement on Grillo’s website posted on Monday.
The team at Trump Tower turned heads last week when word slipped that Ivanka Trump, the incoming first daughter, is eyeing an office suite in the East Wing normally reserved for the first lady. A spokesperson for the transition denied the rumor, though few insiders doubt that Ivanka will play a prominent role in her father’s administration.
But as commentators were quick to point out, it wouldn’t be the first time for someone other than a presidential wife to act as “first lady,” a role with no formal set of rules or established parameters. In the early 19th century, two widower presidents turned to family members to act as official White House hostess: Thomas Jefferson enlisted the aid of his daughter, Martha, and Martin Van Buren turned to his daughter-in-law, Angelica. Between 1857 and 1861, Harriet Lane played the part — and played it exceedingly well — for her bachelor uncle, James Buchanan.
To those who would argue that Donald Trump is neither a widower nor a bachelor — he has a living and breathing wife — here, too, there is historical precedent. For several years during her husband’s tenure in office, Eleanor Roosevelt declined to fulfil the traditional role of White House hostess, preferring to devote her time to public and political work. Her daughter, Anna, stepped into the function.
Much about the Trump presidency seems likely to break with two centuries and more of historic precedent, but history by no means suggests that Ivanka Trump can’t or shouldn’t act as first lady, particularly if her step-mother prefers to maintain a private life, out of the public spotlight (as should be her right). But with the role comes great scrutiny, a very high ethical bar and stringent obligations to the public. Given her family’s frequent and indecorous habit of mixing business with politics, it’s not at all clear that she’s up for the task.
***
Few presidents were better prepared to assume the highest office in the land than James Buchanan, a former United States senator, minister to Russia and the United Kingdom, and secretary of State. And few proved such abject failures. The Civil War may have been an “irrepressible conflict,” as William Seward characterized it, but by ineptitude and flagrant pro-slavery bias, Buchanan probably sped its arrival.
If Buchanan made a single good decision during his presidency, it was in asking his niece, Harriet Lane, to serve as White House hostess. The daughter of Elliot Lane, a merchant, and Jane Buchanan, the president’s sister, Lane was orphaned at the age of 11. She asked to be entrusted to James, her favorite uncle. Buchanan, who was immensely fond of his niece, placed her in a boarding school in Charleston, Virginia (later, West Virginia), where she excelled at history, astrology and mythology but exhibited a fiercely strong will that made her something of a disciplinary problem. James, now secretary of State, moved Lane to the Visitation Convent school in Georgetown, where she hit her stride, adding a facility for piano, art and horsemanship to her list of talents.
Now close to Washington, Lane developed an intense interest in public affairs. Other men of his age might have discouraged this passion, but Buchanan cheered his niece on, allowing her to attend meetings and conferences in his office. By the time that Buchanan retired temporarily to his new estate, Wheatland, just outside Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Lane was well-known to members of Congress, diplomats, journalists and political hangers-on. She accompanied Buchanan to Wheatland and subsequently to London, where she served as hostess and quiet, informal adviser to her uncle during his tenure as minister.
The relationship between uncle and niece was warm, affectionate and complicated. Lane enjoyed the company of suitors but resisted marriage, calling the young men who vied for her affections “pleasant but dreadfully troublesome.” Buchanan, in turn, accepted that Lane was an independent spirit. When they were apart, his letters to her were full of practical advice and sparing in expressions of affection (“believe me to be yours with the highest consideration,” he offered in a rare display of warmth, however restrained). He wanted her to marry but only to someone with sufficient financial wherewithal and “good moral habits” and instructed, “Never engage yourself to any person without my previous advice.” Buchanan was more at ease in discussing affairs of state with Lane — testament to his regard for her intellect and counsel.
As White House hostess, Lane offered a pleasant departure from her predecessor, the dour, austere Jane Pierce. Under her guiding hand, the mansion became a gathering place for artists and musicians, parties and receptions were more gay, and the presidency enjoyed a new injection of glamor. In 1860 newspaper readers followed with delight a visit by Edward Albert, the prince of Whales (later, King Edward VII). The 19-year-old royal and Lane, who was 11 years his senior, toured Mount Vernon, played games of tenpins and danced at an official reception.
But Harriet was more than an entertainer. She became intensely interested in the well-being of Native Americans and lobbied her uncle, as well as members of Congress, to provide more generous educational and health care opportunities to Indian tribes. It was also by her doing that the government banned illegal liquor sales and removed Christian missionaries from Indian territory. A quiet opponent of slavery (though by no means a political abolitionist), she served as an informal conduit between social reformers and the president.
Most people in the know understood that Buchanan trusted Lane’s counsel. It was for this reason that in 1860, Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Newspaper referred to her as “the first lady of the land.” It was the first occasion of the term, and it quickly stuck. In this sense, Harriet Lane, though not a presidential spouse, was in fact the first “first lady.”
***
Late one night in the summer of 1942, with America’s war mobilization in full thrust, Franklin Roosevelt asked his wife, Eleanor, to curtail her political activities and punishing travel in order to assume the role of hostess at his nightly cocktail hours and White House dinners, and to accompany him on weekend trips to Shangri-La (as Camp David was then known) and Hyde Park. “I think he was really asking her to be his wife again in all aspects,” their son, Jimmy, would later offer. “He had always said she was the most remarkable woman he had ever known, the smartest, the most intuitive, the most interesting, but because she was always going somewhere he never got to spend time with her.”
Since she discovered Franklin’s affair with Lucy Mercer, her private secretary, some two decades earlier, Eleanor had kept a studied distance from her husband. They functioned as close political partners — she was instrumental in his political comeback, following a debilitating onset of polio that left him paralyzed. They also enjoyed a close, complicated, relationship that was emotionally but not physically or romantically intimate. As first lady, Eleanor enjoyed great clout and served both as her husband’s eyes and ears — traveling widely (as he could not) to gauge and influence public opinion — and personal emissary to liberal activists and civil rights proponents. She wrote a daily syndicated column, “My Day,” which became almost as influential as the president’s fireside chats in conveying the administration’s programs and principles. She was arguably the most important first lady in history and, though her relationship with Franklin grew stronger during the war, chafed at the idea that she should relegate herself to the ceremonial duties of White House hostess.
Which is why in 1942 Eleanor declined FDR’s request and instead turned the responsibility over to her daughter, Anna, who henceforth served as hostess and assistant to the president.
With her husband away in the service, Anna had been living on the third floor of the White House. She subsequently moved to the family quarters on the second floor and took over the Lincoln Suite — a bedroom that had once been Abraham Lincoln’s office, with a small, adjoining room that had been his secretary’s outpost. “With no preliminary talks or discussions,” she later recalled, “I found myself trying to take over little cores that I felt would relieve Father of some of the pressure under which he was constantly working.”
Anna welcomed the opportunity to stand at the side of her emotionally distant father, whose attention she had always craved. But she had to walk a fine line with her mother, who—though she did not want to fill the position of hostess — guarded her position. When Eleanor was in town, she — not Anna — enjoyed the coveted place next to Franklin.
In some ways, Anna was a better fit for the role, strictly speaking. “Father could relax more easily with Anna than with Mother,” her brother, Elliot observed. “He could enjoy his drink without feeling guilty. Though Mother had gotten to the point where she would think she was relaxing, she was always working.”
Anna would never fill her mother’s shoes. Eleanor was then and remains unparalleled in her position as a presidential spouse. Mother, not daughter, was the political powerhouse in the family. But with time, Anna’s role grew “like Topsy, because I was there all the time and it was easy for Father to tell someone to ‘ask Anna to do that’ or to look over at me and say, ‘Sis, you handle that,’” she would write. She may have exaggerated the point when she said it was “immaterial to me whether my job was helping to plan the 1944 campaign, pouring tea for General de Gaulle or filling Father’s empty cigarette case,” but Anna was in every way a powerful first daughter, filling many of the external functions of a first lady.
“Anna’s day at the White House begins at 6:45 a.m.,” readers of Time magazine learned. After breakfasting in her suite and sending her son off to kindergarten with a Secret Service agent, she remained with FDR “until Johnny comes marching home.” After a full day of official work, Anna “will preside over social engagements and welcome visitors of state any time Eleanor Roosevelt is off on a trip” — yet the unassuming presidential hostess and aide “made it plain that she will not be considered an assistant hostess. She has reiterated … instructions to the State Department’s protocol office: at White House guest dinners, ‘Put me anywhere, I’m not official.’”
***
75 years later, the Trump family is apparently pondering a similar arrangement whereby it may bestow on Ivanka Trump some or all of the functions of first lady. History gives them every right to do so. From outward appearances, the president-elect trusts Ivanka’s judgement every bit as much as James Buchanan trusted Harriet Lane’s; equally, he appears to find comfort and confidence in her presence, just as FDR did in the company of his daughter, Anna.
But that’s where the historical rationalization ends. Neither Harriet Lane nor Anna Roosevelt enjoyed an executive position in a sprawling, family-owned business empire. When they broke bread with foreign heads of state or attended meetings with powerful government officials — officials who reported to the president — they did not stand to benefit materially from their favored position.
If Ivanka Trump is to occupy an office in the White House, she and her husband must liquidate their assets and place them in a blind trust. There is no historical precedent — indeed, it breaks with all historical precedent — for a first lady to use her office for personal profit. Even if Ivanka were to stop auctioning “charity” coffee dates and selling knock-off convention dresses, the very possibility of a business conflict creates a conflict, ipso facto.
Being first lady means placing country above self. If Ivanka isn’t prepared to do that, she should stay in Manhattan.
Josh Zeitz has taught American history and politics at Cambridge University and Princeton University and is the author of Lincoln’s Boys: John Hay, John Nicolay, and the War for Lincoln’s Image. He is currently writing a book on the making of Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society. Follow him @joshuamzeitz.
MPs in Westminster put down tools for the Christmas holidays today, and Theresa May was no doubt hoping for a well-earned rest. Instead, a 50-page memo from Nicola Sturgeon outlining Scotland’s proposals for Brexit landed in her in-tray.
As Christmas presents go, it won’t be the most warmly received.
Fortunately for May there aren’t any nasty surprises in the “Scotland’s Place in Europe” document. The Scottish question has been a fiendishly complicated one since the day of the referendum, which saw the U.K. vote to leave but Scotland vote — overwhelmingly — to remain. Today’s formal proposals from Edinburgh simply restate Sturgeon’s position, and place the ball firmly in May’s court.
Sturgeon’s fundamental ask is for Scotland to remain a full member of the European single market and the customs union. The U.K. as a whole, she argues, could stay in the single market as a member of the European Economic Area without betraying the mandate from English and Welsh voters to leave the EU. Alternatively, Scotland should be allowed to stay in the single market while the rest of the U.K. leaves.
The fallback option for Sturgeon is simple: a second referendum on Scottish independence. And her allies are insistent she has the nerve to go ahead with it.
Launching the proposals in Edinburgh today, the first minister was clear the independence option remains on the table. Officially, it is her preferred choice. But things have changed a little since October, when she announced — to great excitement — that the Scottish parliament would consult on plans for a new referendum.
At the time, all the indications were that May was determined to seek the hardest possible Brexit deal — out of the single market and customs union, with controls on immigration as the No. 1 priority. Scotland’s hopes for a soft Brexit, as outlined in today’s document, seem completely incompatible with that vision.
But the tone of remarks coming from ministers in Westminster has altered in recent weeks. Even the arch-Brexiteer, Trade Secretary Liam Fox, has suggested some kind of compromise deal could be sought on customs union membership.
It is early days, and the idea of the U.K. as a whole staying in the single market seems highly unlikely. But the Scottish wish for soft Brexit and the wishes of May’s government in Westminster don’t seem as far apart as they did a few short weeks ago.
What’s more, wouldn’t the threat of a Scottish independence referendum and the possible break-up of the U.K. be a useful foil for a prime minister seeking to persuade her Euroskeptic MPs a hard Brexit might not be best idea?
Maybe Sturgeon’s 50-page Christmas card will not be so unwelcome in Downing Street after all.
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
A man who opened fire at an Islamic center in Zürich on Monday has been found dead, Swiss police said.
The gunman, a 24-year-old Swiss citizen, entered an Islamic prayer hall Monday evening and fired shots at worshipers inside, wounding three people before fleeing the scene, police said Tuesday. The three wounded are in a stable condition in hospital.
Authorities found the body of a man on Gassner Bridge, near the Islamic center, on Monday night but it was not immediately clear whether he was the gunman.
Investigators now say the dead man was the shooter and that he most likely committed suicide.
Police also suspect the 24-year-old, whose name was not released, was responsible for killing another man whose body was found at a children’s playground in the city Sunday morning.
The motive for Monday’s attack is not known, police chief Christiane Lentjes Meili said, adding there is no evidence the perpetrator had any links to Islamic State.
Berlin police believe they may have arrested the wrong man in connection with Monday’s attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, which killed 12 and injured 48 people.
In a tweet, police urged caution, saying the perpetrator was likely still at large.
“We have the wrong man,” police sources told German newspaper Die Welt Tuesday. “The real perpetrator is still armed and at large, and can cause further harm.”
Riot police and special forces in the German capital have been informed, according to Die Welt.
The man arrested by Berlin police Monday evening is believed to be from Pakistan, and has denied responsibility for the attack.
At a press conference earlier Tuesday, German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said the man arrived in Germany a year ago seeking asylum but that his hearing was postponed twice.
There were two attempts to schedule a hearing for his application: The first fell through when the man failed to appear, and the second was broken off when he claimed to only speak Balochi, a language native to the Balochistan region of Pakistan and for which the authorities could not find an interpreter.

His asylum claim was never fully processed, de Maizière said. As such, the man did not appear in federal records on potential terror suspects.
The investigation is still pending, he said, adding: “The security services will not rest until complete clarity has been established about the background of this person.”
No terror group has claimed responsibility so far, the interior minister said.
When President-elect Donald Trump announced last week that he wanted ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson to be his secretary of state, many in the foreign policy establishment were worried. Aside from the fact that Tillerson has zero public service experience, his history of striking oil deals with foreign leaders, notably Vladimir Putin, raises questions about his ability to defend U.S. interests that may conflict those of ExxonMobil.
But the State Department has a bigger disruption to worry about.
The person who actually sets the department’s diplomatic agenda — in ways both overt and subtle — isn’t the secretary of state; it’s the president. The president’s words, as uttered in speeches and other official statements, literally shape American foreign policy. In turn, State Department bureaucrats rely on the commander in chief to articulate clear, thoughtful and consistentviews, based on facts and a knowledge of history. Only then can the entire weight of the large State Department bureaucracy follow seamlessly behind him—and carry out his goals.
As Trump veers from one surprise tweet to the next — at times misspelled 140-character statements that seem to contradict decades of U.S. foreign policy, State Department bureaucrats are facing a unique challenge: How to follow the lead of a president who seems uninterested in consistency, protocol and nuance?
In Trump’s November phone call to Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, for example, he called Pakistan a “fantastic country, fantastic place of fantastic people,” neglecting to mention Pakistan’s involvement in fomenting terrorism against U.S. interests, a major point of tension for American presidents since Al Qaeda and its affiliates set up shop in Pakistan after the September 11 attacks. On December 2, Trump spoke by phone with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, a move breaking with nearly four decades of protocol in U.S.-China relations.
This seemingly impulsive personal style makes it extremely difficult for the State Department bureaucracy to interpret Trump and follow his example. Do these new developments signal a real shift in U.S. alliances or are they offhand remarks? Will Twitter be the primary platform for Trump to issue new statements of foreign policy? If so, how much will the State Department be involved in the shaping, coordination and vetting of such messages?
Ambiguity from the White House can be extremely crippling for U.S foreign policy. On an operational level, when the secretary of state meets with a foreign leader, the bureaucracy churns out multiple papers to support the conversation. Those papers, if written well, use presidential statements and perspectives as the basis for their message. The president’s words are used and reused time and time again in speeches, talking points, public outreach and private meetings. As a result, the words themselves must be carefully crafted, thoughtful, deliberate and based in fact and history. Ambassador Richard A. Boucher, the former State Department spokesman who served for six secretaries of state , explained, “until the president gives a clear statement about where America stands in the world with our enemies and allies, it will be hard for career people to take that and turn it into policy.”
Likewise, U.S. diplomats overseas depend on the president’s words every day to convey American interests and intentions to foreign governments. If those words are inconsistent or incoherent, foreign governments will question the effectiveness and utility of diplomacy itself. It’s possible that civil servants and Foreign Service officers may not be taken seriously by their foreign counterparts, who could be unwilling to work through an American bureaucracy that its own president publicly discredits and does not utilize.
If Trump doesn’t embrace a new communication style, the inner workings of the State Department won’t be the only casualty. The Trump approach to diplomacy also means that he — and by association the United States—could more easily get played by other countries. Trump’s recent foreign policy engagements suggest as much. Pakistan’s readout of Trump’s overly effusive call with Sharif could have been released as such to put pressure on its archrival India. Similarly, Taiwan’s President Tsai could have viewed Trump as a willing target of opportunity in an attempt to boost her status at home.
Not to mention that the fallout from impuslive foreign policy decisions could destabilize the world. Just days after the Trump-Tsai call, China flew a nuclear-capable bomber over the South China Sea and seized a U.S. research drone from international waters off the coast of the Philippines. When Trump is president, it will certainly be his prerogative to recognize Taiwan; but such a policy needs to be thought through first, anticipating its benefits and managing the costs of doing so.
Luckily, Trump still has time to adapt his communication methods to work better with the State Department before he takes office. If Trump remains committed to using Twitter as a primary means of communicating foreign policy, for example, then his tweets should be coordinated and filtered through a bureaucratic process for accuracy, consistency and reputational risk.
I’d also recommend Trump bolster the role of careerists in foreign policy, who are trained to check for accuracy, consistency, protocol and potential risks to U.S. interests. He should let the bureaucracy do its job and include them in the work of the new administration in a way that values, trusts and respects their role. Trump will still be the chief diplomat, and will determine the pace and tone of U.S. foreign policy, but these experienced officials will be able to help him to do it in the most productive, effective way.
But if Trump doesn’t change his ways, the State Department faces a tough road ahead. For some, the entrenchment of the State Department bureaucracy might offer solace, encouraging hope that the large, complicated and slow systems of government will make it hard for the president-elect to dramatically change foreign policy. But let’s not be misguided in our search for silver linings: If Trump’s statements and actions so far accurately hint at what’s to come, American policymakers will spend the next four years wasting precious time deciphering tweets, as they desperately try to look for clues as to what U.S. diplomacy actually means in the age of Trump.
Shamila N. Chaudhary is Senior Fellow at New America and Senior Advisor to the Dean at Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. She served at the White House National Security Council during the Obama Administration as Director for Pakistan and Afghanistan and on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Policy Planning Staff.
France’s former Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron, a centrist candidate for president, is the country’s most popular politician, a L’Express opinion poll published Tuesday suggested.
Macron was favored by 35 percent of those polled, beating 24 other politicians, including former Prime Ministers Alain Juppé (on 33 percent) and François Fillon (on 31 percent).
Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front party, came in fourth. Her popularity increased to 27 percent, up one percent since last month.
Respondents said they were unhappy with François Hollande’s performance: 82 percent said he was a bad president.
Bernard Cazeneuve, who took over from Manuel Valls after he quit the role in a bid for the presidency, is a good prime minister, according to 38 percent of the people questioned.
This article was updated to correct Macron’s political inclination.
Members of parliament in Britain on Tuesday will call for a legal change that would force the country’s overseas territories to adopt the same tax transparency standards as the rest of the U.K. by 2020, according to Reuters.
The amendment would force the territories to make public company owners’ names in a bid to halt tax evasion.
About 80 cross-party MPs are due to call on the government to pass the measure.
“The government can’t possibly claim to be tackling corruption without getting a grip on the tax havens that are under the U.K.’s umbrella, which facilitate all kinds of corruption and tax avoidance and evasion,” MP Margaret Hodge said in a statement.
The move comes as documents leaked earlier this year revealed that international companies and politicians have been using offshore tax havens in Panama and the Bahamas to avoid paying taxes in their home countries.
The controversial leader of the Netherlands’ far-right Freedom Party (PVV), Geert Wilders, was on Monday night named the country’s politician of the year for the fourth time.
In a poll commissioned by TV program EenVandaag, Wilders received 26 percent of the 40,000 votes cast, well ahead of Green Party leader Jesse Klaver, who finished second with 11 percent, and Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem on 7 percent. Wilders also won the contest in 2015, 2013 and 2010.
Wilders’ party has led opinion polls ahead of the Dutch parliamentary election scheduled for March 15. In a survey published December 18, the PVV was projected to win 36 seats in the 150 seat parliament, up from the 15 it managed in the 2012 election.
A court found Wilders guilty of incitement and encouraging discrimination earlier this month, but did not impose a penalty.
The seven so-called “faithless” votes cast by members of the Electoral College on Monday may go down as a noisy footnote to an otherwise chaotic 2016 election. But they also represent a historic breach between electors and the candidates they were expected to vote for.
The number of faithless votes has now become the most-ever cast in a single presidential election. The record was set in 1808, when six Democratic-Republican electors opposed James Madison. It’s also the first time since 1832 in which more than a single elector cast a faithless vote.
The bulk of the votes came from Washington state, where three Democratic electors bucked Hillary Clinton and cast votes for Colin Powell, a retired general, an African-American — and a Republican. These Democrats were supporting a failed effort meant to block the election of Donald Trump and unite behind an alternative Republican candidate. Powell turned out to be their choice.
A fourth Washington state elector — Robert Satiacum — cast his ballot for Native American activist Faith Spotted Eagle. And a fifth vote against Clinton came late Monday in Hawaii, where one elector voted for Bernie Sanders.
The only two anti-Trump votes occurred in Texas. One, cast by elector Chris Suprun for Ohio Gov. John Kasich, was expected. But a second, cast by an unknown elector for libertarian former Rep. Ron Paul, was a surprise.
As remarkable as the level of faithless voting turned out to be, the numbers could have been even higher. Three additional Democratic electors — one each in Maine, Minnesota and Colorado — attempted to buck Clinton as well but they were denied the chance to do so by state election officials.
Maine’s David Bright initially cast his vote for Sanders, Clinton’s primary rival. But after he was told his vote was improper, based on a state law, he changed his mind and supported Clinton. Minnesota elector Muhammad Abdurrahman also attempted to back Sanders but he was quickly replaced under a similar Minnesota law with an elector who voted for Clinton.
In Colorado, elector Micheal Baca — a leader of the anti-Trump Electoral College effort — was removed as he attempted to cast a vote for Kasich. He says he intends to fight his removal and cast the vote as he intended.
Monday marked the first time any state laws that bind electors have been enforced. Though many have been on the books for decades, electors have nearly unanimously backed their party’s candidate throughout history — when there have been single stray votes in recent history, they’ve typically gone unchallenged and unenforced.
Only 157 faithless votes have ever been recorded in total, and most came before the turn of the 20th century.
The last faithless electoral vote occurred in Minnesota in 2004, when an unknown elector cast a ballot for John Kerry’s running mate, John Edwards.
A week after Antonio Tajani‘s surprise win as the candidate for the main conservative bloc in the European Parliament, the Socialists are preparing a counter-attack to win back the presidency.
The roadmap to victory, as they see it, involves courting the Greens, lobbying for a Socialist at the helm of the European Council and uniting Europe’s left-wing forces.
“The Socialists are in a fighting mood,” said a senior official from the Progressive Alliance of the Socialists and Democrats (S&D).
The early departure of Parliament’s current president, Socialist Martin Schulz, who is returning to Germany to pursue a career in national politics, is likely to pit Tajani against his fellow Italian countryman, S&D’s Gianni Pittella.
And unlike the last election, the January 17 vote has Brussels in real suspense.
The suspense in part stems from the fact the Socialists have seemingly abandoned the so-called grand coalition, a 2014 power-sharing agreement with the European People’s Party (EPP), under which the presidency was supposed to pass from the S&D to a conservative leader in 2017.
Under the old order, Juncker, Schulz, Commission First Vice-President Frans Timmermans, EPP group leader Manfred Weber and Pittella formed a power trust known as the G5, which allowed the Commission to work with the Socialists to get its agenda through Parliament.
“Pittella was part of the G5 band,” an S&D official said. “He was the greatest defender of the grand coalition.”
But last month, a number of Socialist members of Parliament, including French MEP Pervenche Berès, sent Pittella a letter asking him to ditch the deal. “So Pittella completely changed his mind, because he wanted to win,” the official said.
According to several sources, Pittella approached several Socialist heads of state, including Hollande and ex-Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, seeking their blessing to end the agreement. “Before he decided to end the grand coalition, Pittella consulted a lot of Socialist leaders who told him, ‘go ahead and push it to the limit,'” a senior parliament source said.
Pittella signaled he was dumping the grand coalition when he announced last month that passing the presidency to the EPP would create a “right-wing monopoly in the EU institutions,” given both European Council President Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker belong to the EPP.
Rather than a matter of principle, Parliament sources describe Pittella’s backflip as a political strategy to win the backing of a collection of left-wing MEPs, potentially from the Greens and the European United Left–Nordic Green Left (GUE-NGL), who aren’t keen on cooperating with the EPP.
“We are open to chat with Pittella and see what he proposes to end the grand coalition,” said a senior official from the Greens, when asked whether they would support Pittella. “But the main point is not the presidency. It is also to … change the political line.”
To win Parliament’s top job, Pittella needs the support not only of a united left-wing bloc and the Greens, but also at least some MEPs in the liberal ALDE group. Guy Verhofstadt, ALDE’s leader, has not yet declared whether he will run for the presidency. But if ALDE doesn’t put forward its own candidate, the liberal group could become Parliament’s kingmaker.
“The most useful thing for Pittella would be to search for an alliance with the Greens, GUE and a part of the liberals,” said Sergio Cofferati, a prominent Italian S&D member.
The as yet unanswered question is who Schulz will endorse as his replacement. At a news conference last week, he said the power-sharing agreement had been successful in enhancing cooperation between EU institutions at a time of rising populism and Euroskepticism in Europe.
One source said Schulz is lobbying behind the scenes to promote ALDE’s Verhofstadt over Pittella.
Several sources also said Pittella is unlikely to give up his aspirations unless he can reach a compromise with the EPP to replace Tusk with a Socialist when his term as Council president ends in May. Several sources said Pittella and the Socialists are discussing three potential candidates to succeed Tusk: outgoing French President François Hollande, former Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat.
An S&D official said speculation about the Council’s top job was rife in Strasbourg during the Parliament’s last voting session.
“Few people think Hollande, who has lost so much credibility, could make it,” the official said. “Thorning-Schmidt — why not?”
A spokesman for Pittella said the Italian politician “firmly opposed” any suggestion his group was scheming to replace Tusk. Regardless, few people appear willing to let Tusk go, in part because it would play into the hands of Jarosław Kaczyński, the leader of Poland’s Law and Justice party. Kaczyński, one of Poland’s most powerful people, is anti-establishment, Euroskeptic and Tusk’s Polish nemesis.
Finding themselves again 
Beyond political strategy, Pittella appears to see a broader opportunity in ending the grand coalition. According to some on the left, the power-sharing deal has watered down the Socialists’ principles. And the party has faced headwinds throughout the Continent.
France’s Hollande, facing an imminent defeat, announced he would not contest the presidential elections next year. Italy’s Renzi resigned from the prime ministership earlier this month after suffering a crushing defeat in a referendum on constitutional reform. In Spain and Germany, countries with Europe’s two biggest center-left forces, the PSOE and SPD have also suffered major losses in recent years.
“Socialists are defeated everywhere,” a senior Parliament official said. “They are seen as the weak link of alliances with the center-right, so the left needs to get into opposition.”
Schulz’s departure and the wavering grand coalition have given the Socialists an opportunity to define themselves again.
“For the first time in years, there is a space for the Socialists to fill,” the S&D’s Cofferati said.
WARSAW — In the little more than a year that Poland’s Law and Justice party has been in power, it has introduced a series of dramatic and controversial changes to the country’s core institutions. From the educational and health care systems to the military, the constitutional court and the media — it sometimes seems that no sector of Polish society remains untouched.
It’s tempting to conclude that the party’s leader Jarosław Kaczyński has successfully seized dictatorial powers, ruling from the shadows in all but name. Instead, it’s becoming increasingly clear that he may have overreached. For evidence of that, look not to the thousands of protesters massing outside the gates of parliament (or Sejm); look to what’s happening indoors — where cracks in Kaczyński’s slim majority are beginning to appear.
Even before opposition MPs sparked an all-out confrontation by occupying the main chamber of parliament, there were signs that Kaczyński was losing control of the legislative process. Law and Justice (PiS) has 234 parliamentarians, just 4 more than the 230 it needs to rule. And last week, it lost three voting sessions on relatively minor issues, including a commemoration of an early 20th-century military commander and technical detail in an education reform distinguishing between autism and Asperger syndrome.
It was the first time the party has broken ranks, and it seems to have put its leadership on alert.
Since sweeping to power in 2015, PiS has replaced the officials in charge of the state media, given untenable cash subsidies for families with more than one child, refused to swear-in justices who had been vetted and approved by the previous session of parliament, and disregarded the country’s constitutional court when it ruled against them.
These moves have garnered condemnation abroad and sparked protests in Poland, where outrage has recently reached fever pitch. A controversial reform of the education system was greeted with howls of disapproval from parents and educators when parliament approved it on December 14. And demonstrations against a bill that would have banned abortion in all cases except to save the woman’s life forced the government to back down.
The protests in the Sejm have taken the confrontation to another level. The crisis began on Friday afternoon after the Speaker of the Sejm, Marek Kuchciński, banned opposition MP Michał Szczerba from the ongoing budget session.
Szczerba, who was about to give his comments on the budget, was one of the MPs protesting regulations limiting access to parliament by journalists that had gone into effect earlier in the day. After briefly displaying a piece of paper with the hashtag #WolneMedia (Free Media), he was expelled from the session. This triggered a reaction from opposition MPs, who blocked the podium demanding his reinstatement.
After consulting senior MPs from all sides, Kuchciński was reportedly ready to allow Szczerba to speak, until Kaczyński convinced him to hold his ground. Instead, he stuck by his decision, and opposition MPs continued to occupy the main chamber while the ruling party’s MPs moved to an adjacent room.
The vote on the budget was then taken in a closed session, with opposition MPs prevented from taking part — in violation of internal Sejm procedures. Some opposition MPs used their smartphones to live-broadcast as parliamentary guards acting on direct orders from the speaker prevented them from entering the room where the voting was taking place.
Meanwhile, by a crowd of protesters numbering in the thousands gathered outside the Sejm to protest the misconduct, blocking the exits as the government and the PiS MPs tried to leave. Eventually, the police intervened, forcibly removing protestors. Opposition MPs stayed in the main chamber overnight, taking shifts in an unprecedented sit-in.
The outcome of the showdown could determine Poland’s future. Support for the party was 35 percent in December, according to a poll by Kantar Public.
And it could drop further as Poland undergoes a serious economic downturn. Investments and GDP growth are slowing down, falling below already low expectations. The images of protestors on the street and government officials forced to flee parliament will only add to the image of dwindling power and popularity.
In the wake of the crisis, Polish President Andrzej Duda has been talking to political leaders from across the spectrum in an effort at meditation. Yet it is the fights over media access to the parliament and the furtive budget vote that will make all the difference. The opposition has called for a second vote on the budget — one held in the main chamber with all parties participating. If the budget is not accepted by December 25, the president would be allowed to shorten the term of parliament, causing the government to fall.
While such an eventually is unlikely, the showdown provides an opportunity for Duda, who has until now held a marginal role in Polish politics, to strengthen his position in relation to Kaczyński and the government. Should he seize it, he could redraw the country’s power dynamics, bringing Kaczyński’s blitzkrieg of legislation into the Polish winter mud.
Wojciech Przybylski is editor-in-chief Visegrad Insight and chairman of the Res Publica foundation in Warsaw.
KIEV – Ukraine’s President Petro Poroshenko is nationalizing the country’s largest retail bank in an effort to stabilize the country’s financial sector, a move that comes at a perilous time of heightened political disenchantment domestically and growing doubts about western support for Kiev.
In a statement late Sunday, the government announced it was taking over PrivatBank, controlled by Ukrainian billionaire Ihor Kolomoisky, in order to “save the banking system.” PrivatBank handles more than a third of individual bank deposits. It is the largest bank after two state-run institutions.
EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, meeting in Brussels with Ukraine’s deputy prime minister Stepan Kubiv, welcomed the news, calling the move a “bold” decision.
“This is a sign of Poroshenko’s political strength,” said Anders Åslund, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council in Washington. “It amounts to a huge step to put Ukraine’s finances and banking system in order.”
He added: “It made a lot of sense to do so as soon as possible from all points of view: domestic finances, danger of mounting political opposition at home, and disenchantment among foreign donors if the nationalization of PrivatBank did not take place.”
Financial stability is crucial for the country, which has had its economy decimated by the fight against Moscow-supported militants in the East.
While the move to nationalize the bank had long been rumored, when news broke, it caused some degree of panic — especially since the announcement was made shortly before midnight and few details were initially provided.
On Monday, however, Poroshenko assured his countrymen their money was safe.
“It’s obvious that the only way to save the bank and ensure the safety of its clients’ funds is to bring it into state ownership,” Poroshenko said in a video address. “The alternative would have been irresponsible, for it would have meant closing our eyes, burying our head in the sand, while waiting for the bank to collapse.”
He added: “Please, stay calm. The new [bank] administration is taking control already. Right now, in these hours and minutes.”
Washington and Brussels are pressing Kiev to introduce transformative reforms to curtail the influence of the country’s oligarchs and to combat the corruption that has plagued Ukraine since it became independent 25 years ago.
At the same time, a certain Ukraine fatigue appears to have taken root among some Europeans and Americans, who question why their governments continue to support Ukraine in its struggle against Russia.
Whether the nationalization of PrivatBank will be a substantive step in bolstering Ukraine’s position remains to be seen. But the decision couldn’t have come soon enough: PrivatBank’s problems were reaching critical mass, officials said, and the sound of the country’s financial sector collapsing would have been heard clearly in Western capitals.
The bank will now be restructured, with a view to an eventual sale. In the meantime, all client deposits are insured, officials said, though some bank transactions have been suspended temporarily.
Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund, which requires banking reform as part of its $17.8 billion assistance program to Ukraine, said nationalization was an “important step” in lending stability to the country’s financial sector.
But for some PrivatBank officials, nationalization came as a surprise. Deputy manager Dmitry Dubilet defended the bank on Facebook and said the decision to nationalize came only after what he described as a series of attacks in the media against the bank.
One of the biggest questions following the nationalization is how this will impact Kolomoisky, one of the country’s richest men, and Poroshenko’s on-again-off-again opponent. Kolomoisky served as governor in his home region of Dnipropetrovsk, where he helped quell a pro-Russia separatist movement. However, he and Poroshenko fell out and he was removed from his post.
Delivering PrivatBank into government hands could shrink Kolomoisky’s financial empire – and political weight. Or he could retain influence through his other businesses, especially if he walks away from the bank without a heavy debt obligation.
In general, though, the nationalization deal is positive, because a bank with huge systemic problems no longer exists. PrivatBank worked as a “giant vacuum cleaner,” said Alexander Paraschiy, head of research at Concorde Capital in Kiev, sucking up money from households and turning these into loans for bank insiders.
But the negatives aren’t insignificant. “The key thing is that the government wasn’t able to force the bank’s existing shareholders to bail it out, and this will cost the taxpayers a lot of money,” Paraschiy said.
Donald Trump swept aside a last-ditch bid to block his ascension to the White House on Monday, officially claiming the title of president-elect with his Electoral College victory.
His defeat of Hillary Clinton follows a desperate and unprecedented attempt by Democratic electors to foment a revolt against him, an effort that collapsed with little to show for it. Just two of the 306 Republican electors, both from Texas, cast a ballot against Trump.
One was Chris Suprun, who announced his intentions in a New York Times op-ed on December 5, and voted for Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who will likely end the Electoral College process with a single vote. Another Texas elector voted for Ron Paul, the former congressman from Texas who ran unsuccessfully for president several times.
Ironically, it was the 36 other Republican votes in Texas who pushed Trump over the threshold to clinch his Electoral College victory. He’ll end the day with 304 electoral votes, well above the 270 he needed to become president. Clinton appeared likely to finish a handful of electoral votes short of the 232 she was expected to receive.
Seven Democratic electors attempted to vote against Clinton — four in Washington state and one each in Minnesota, Maine and Colorado. But three of the seven who attempted to buck Clinton were replaced by state election officials, raising questions about whether their “faithless” votes will be counted. In Colorado, a leader of the anti-Trump Democratic electors, Micheal Baca, was replaced by Republican Secretary of State Wayne Williams for his attempted faithless vote. A Minnesota elector was replaced as well and in Maine, elector David Bright initially cast a vote for Bernie Sanders but recast it for Clinton after he was deemed out of order.
The most tumult occurred in Washington state, where four Democrats broke ranks and rejected Clinton. Three voted for Colin Powell, marking the first electoral votes for an African-American Republican, and the first time in history a major party elector crossed the aisle and supported a candidate of the opposing major party. The fourth elector, Robert Satiacum, cast his ballot for Faith Spotted Eagle, a Native American environmental activist.
Grand predictions of dozens of defecting Republican electors by anti-Trump forces proved to be wishful thinking. And throughout the day, anti-Trump Democratic electors expressed anger and frustration toward Clinton and her top allies, insisting that their silence had all but doomed the long-shot plan to thwart Trump’s election.
One Democratic elector with Clinton campaign ties claimed dozens of Democrats on the Electoral College were willing to embrace the unprecedented plan to throw their votes to a consensus Republican candidate — like Mitt Romney — as part of a strategy to coax Republican electors to abandon Trump. All they needed, the elector said, was a signal from Clinton or her top allies.
“I have no problem casting my vote for Mitt Romney,” the Democratic elector, who requested anonymity, told POLITICO.
That elector was not affiliated with the Democratic group known as the Hamilton Electors, which lobbied Republican electors to defect from Trump and cast their votes for an alternative candidate. The group of nine Democrats and one Republican — Suprun — has been in contact with Clinton’s inner circle but did not receive any signals of support or opposition heading into the vote.
A signal of disapproval would have ended the effort weeks ago, they say, but as of Monday morning, just hours before electors gathered in their state capitals to officially choose the president, there was no word about whether Clinton approved of this strategic voting effort by Democratic electors, many of whom were pledged to support her.
“I understand Clinton’s hesitation because of winning the popular vote, but I believe that she had a chance to put her country above her party and help us stop Donald Trump,” said a Democratic elector involved with the anti-Trump effort. “That is my source of frustration.”
“There’s a point at which the people’s movement needs some top-down management,” one backer of the effort said. “What we did not have … was a voice with great authority. She’s way too conflicted on it.”
Top advisers to Clinton, including campaign communications adviser Jennifer Palmieri, did not respond to repeated requests for comment. After it was clear the effort had failed, Clinton campaign spokesman Brian Fallon criticized the organizers.
“The theory here — if HRC just released her own electors, 37 Rs wld abandon Trump — tells you how half baked this was,” Fallon tweeted.
Prior to the vote, Clinton and her team refrained from public comment at all about the anti-Trump Electoral College push. Last week, however, Clinton’s top campaign adviser John Podesta supported a separate push by 80 electors — all but one Democratic — to demand an intelligence briefing for electors ahead of Monday’s vote. James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, ultimately denied that request.
Supporters of the anti-Trump effort were dismayed by Podesta’s appearance Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” when Podesta said Democrats who cast a vote for someone other than Clinton would do nothing to affect the outcome of the election.
“The question is, are there 37 Republicans?” he said, in response to a question about the strategy of voting for an alternative Republican candidate. “It’s not really what the Democrats are going to do.”
Podesta’s comment was the only public acknowledgment from Clinton’s team that it’s been eyeing the threshold of defections that would prevent Trump from claiming the presidency Monday.
Democrats were clearly divided on the issue heading into Monday. David Axelrod, a longtime top adviser to President Barack Obama, argued against efforts to vote against Clinton or Trump.
“Look, Alexander Hamilton conceived of the Electoral College and the Founding Fathers as a buffer against democracy run amok, as a safeguard against someone who was unsuited for the office to take the office. But it’s never been used in the history of our republic,” Axelrod said Monday morning on CNN’s “New Day.” “To have it happen now, despite the fact that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote and all that’s swirling around with Russia and so on, I believe would split the country apart in a really destructive way, and it would set this mad cycle in which every election the Electoral College vote would be in question.”
Meanwhile, Republicans expressed confidence that there would be no surprises when electors convened throughout the day.
“We’re very confident that everything is going to be very smooth,” said Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, Trump’s incoming chief of staff, on “Fox News Sunday.”
Priebus suggested Democratic hostility toward Trump, combined with timed intelligence leaks about Russia’s involvement in the election, seemed to be part of a broader strategy to delegitimize Trump before he can even take office.
Republicans decried extraordinary last-minute attempts by Democrats to lobby Republican electors — who had already been bombarded by thousands of emails and letters — including door-knocks from activists hand-delivering letters urging them to buck Trump. Others described the pressure as harassment and intimidation, noting that anti-Trump protesters had planned to have a presence outside elector meetings.
Electors’ only responsibility Monday was to sign two sets of six ballots that represent their votes — one set for their presidential choice, the other for their vice presidential choice. One set gets mailed to Congress for the official counting of electoral votes on January 6.
Electors have never been subject to the intense lobbying and advertising campaign that accompanied this post-election period, nor have so many of them — nearly all Democrats — signaled a willingness to cast “faithless” votes.
BERLIN — A truck plowed into a Christmas market in central Berlin late Monday, killing at least 12 people and seriously injuring 48, police and emergency services said.
The truck drove into the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz in central Berlin’s main shopping district. A man suspected of being the driver was arrested in central Berlin after a witness chased him over 2 kilometers as he attempted to flee, according to Die Welt.
German media named the assailant as Naved B, a 23-year-old from Pakistan who arrived in Germany earlier this year. An armed police response unit raided a refugee shelter at Berlin Tempelhof Airport, where Naved B is believed to have stayed prior to the attack, early in the morning Tuesday, Die Welt reported.
Police found the body of a second man, who they confirmed was a Polish citizen, in the truck, but it wasn’t clear how he had died. Authorities believe he was the truck’s registered driver, and he did not appear to have been in control of the vehicle.
The Berlin police said on Twitter on Tuesday that investigators assumed the truck was intentionally driven into the crowd in what was “probably a terrorist attack,” and the attorney general had taken over the investigation.
The German Interior Ministry tweeted on Tuesday that Christmas markets and other big events will not be canceled, but will be held “with adjusted security measures.” Authorities said they had increased the number of police in Berlin “as a precaution.”

U.S. President-elect Donald Trump released a statement expressing condolences to the victims of the “horrifying terror attack.”
“Innocent civilians were murdered in the streets as they prepared to celebrate the Christmas holiday,” Trump said. “ISIS and other Islamist terrorists continually slaughter Christians in their communities and places of worship as part of their global jihad. These terrorists and their regional and worldwide networks must be eradicated from the face of the earth, a mission we will carry out with all freedom-loving partners.”
National Security Council spokesman Ned Price also suggested the attack was terror-related.
“The United States condemns in the strongest terms what appears to have been a terrorist attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, Germany, which has killed and wounded dozens,” Price said. “We have been in touch with German officials, and we stand ready to provide assistance as they recover from and investigate this horrific incident.”
The truck, which was pictured on TV, had license plates from Gdańsk in Poland. Berlin police said on Twitter they suspected the truck had been stolen from a construction site in Poland. A Polish haulage company told reporters it owned the vehicle but said it had nothing to do with the incident.
Until Monday’s incident, Germany had been spared the kind of large-scale atrocities suffered by its neighbors in recent years, including France, Belgium, Britain and Spain. German security officials have long insisted that it was only a matter of time before their country was hit too, and they have kept the country on high alert, warning that many German citizens have joined the jihadists in Syria and Iraq, and that some have returned to Germany and may be planning attacks.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in a statement: “We mourn the dead and hope the many injured receive help.”
French President François Hollande and Belgium’s Charles Michel — whose countries suffered terrorist attacks in 2015 and 2016 for which so-called Islamic State claimed responsibility — both expressed their solidarity to the people of Berlin, as did European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker.
“A Christmas market becomes a place of mourning,” the Belgian prime minister said.
The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) wasted no time in blaming the incident on Merkel’s open-door policy on refugees. While the party voiced its condolences, Marcus Pretzell, a senior member of the European Parliament for the AfD, said in a tweet: “When will the German state strike back? When will this damned hypocrisy end? These are Merkel’s dead.”
The incident recalls the July 14 attack in Nice, when 39-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel drove a truck into a crowd celebrating Bastille Day, killing 85 people and injuring 434. The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack.
There are thousands of Christmas markets all over Germany. Late last month, the U.S. State Department warned American tourists visiting Europe during the holiday season to avoid such places.
Facebook activated its safety check feature shortly after the news broke. Berlin police said “there are no indications of further dangerous situations in the city” and asked people not to share videos of the incident.
Nice’s former Mayor Christian Estrosi expressed his condolences for Berlin, tweeting: “Horror in Berlin. Support to the mayor of Berlin and the German people. Never again.”
Authorities told Berliners they could help best “by staying home and not spreading rumors.”
Esther King in Brussels contributed to this article.
Three people were injured in a shooting at an Islamic center in Zürich Monday, Swiss media reported.
Police confirmed the reports, but did not comment on the severity of the injuries.
Reuters cited local media reporting a suspect was on the run.
Authorities have shut down access to the area around the Islamic center, near Zürich’s central railway station.
“The situation is under control so far, the injured are in hospital,” the Zürich police department tweeted, confirming that a manhunt is underway.

LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday refused to rule out Britain continuing to make payments into the EU budget after Brexit, in a further hint at the possible shape of a future deal with Brussels.
May, giving a statement to MPs about last week’s European Council, was asked to make a pledge not to pay any money at all into the EU budget once the U.K. leaves the bloc. Philip Davies, a backbench Conservative Euroskeptic, said continuing financial contributions to Brussels would be a “betrayal” of the referendum result.
The prime minister replied that while the U.K. remains a member of the European Union it will continue to meet its financial obligations, before adding: “What’s important is when we leave the European Union, people want to ensure it’s the British government that decides how taxpayers’ money is spent.”
The remarks open up the possibility of a Norwegian-style deal: Oslo has control over the projects it funds inside the EU, unlike member countries which contribute to the wider EU budget, which funds farm subsidies, infrastructure and subsidies to poorer areas. Norway’s cash payments, alongside its observance of the EU right to the free movement of people, allow it to remain in the single market.
May gave a further hint over the U.K.’s stance on financial contributions when she answered a question from Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn. The government would continue to honor commitments that go beyond the date at which the U.K. leaves the EU, “provided they provide value for money and meet the U.K.’s objectives,” she said.
European diplomats and officials are likely to be buoyed by the remarks, which offer clear room for maneuver in negotiations which are set to begin after the U.K. government triggers Article 50 by the end of March.
Despite her apparent show of flexibility on financial contributions, May’s tone in the rest of the House of Commons debate pointed to the “hard” Brexit set out in her Conservative Party conference speech earlier this year. The U.K.’s goal is to “take control of how taxpayers’ money is spent, how our laws are made and immigration,” said the prime minister.
She also pledged to trigger Article 50 by April regardless of how the U.K. Supreme Court rules in next month’s case on whether the government needs parliament’s approval to take Britain out of the EU.
Russia’s ambassador to Turkey was shot and killed in a gun attack in Ankara Monday evening.
Andrey Karlov was speaking at the opening of an exhibition entitled “Russia as seen by Turks” when he was shot in the back. The attacker has been identified as a 22-year-old off-duty police officer named Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş, according to Hürriyet Daily News.
The diplomat was taken to hospital with serious injuries and Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova later announced he had died.
The attacker shouted “Don’t forget Syria,” according to a witness who spoke with AFP.
According to the state-owned Anadolu Agency, the attacker was killed by security forces after a gun fight at the art gallery.
At least three other people have been injured, Turkish media reported.
The attack comes a day before Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu is due in Moscow for talks with Russian and Iranian counterparts.
The foreign ministry condemned the attack and said in a statement it would not allow the attack to “cast shadow” on Turkish-Russian ties. Turkish President Recep Tayipp Erdoğan called the Russian president Monday evening following the attack.
On Twitter, the president called the assassination an “open provocation” to Turkey-Russia relations, which he said would not intimidate the countries nor change the nature of their relationship.
Russia has called the killing of its Turkish envoy a “terrorist” act. At a meeting with Russia’s foreign minister and the heads of the overseas and domestic intelligence agencies, President Vladimir Putin called it a “provocation” aimed at derailing the warming Moscow-Ankara relationship and an attempt to inflame the Syria conflict, according to AFP.
“There can be only one answer to this — stepping up the fight against terrorism, and the bandits will feel this.” Putin said.
The United States, Britain, Bulgaria, NATO and the EU have condemned the attack.
Secretary of State John Kerry called the attack an “assault on the right of all diplomats.”
“Our thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones, the Russian people, and with the other victims who were injured in this shooting,” Kerry said in a statement. “We stand ready to offer assistance to Russia and Turkey as they investigate this despicable attack, which was also an assault on the right of all diplomats to safely and securely advance and represent their nations around the world.”



This article has been updated.
One of the major questions for policymakers following Donald Trump’s election as U.S. president is what to do about Iran? This is a puzzle not just in Washington but in Europe, too.
Since the conclusion of nuclear negotiations with the Islamic Republic, European countries have signed hundreds of memoranda of understanding and declarations of intent, and have engaged in negotiations for contracts in practically every field of economic activity: banking, finance, oil and gas, transportation, infrastructure, engineering, even dual-use technologies that could see both civilian and military applications.
Italy has led the way. Following former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s example, government ministers have announced dozens of initiatives and programs with their Iranian counterparts. These initiatives involve not only trade but also defense. The Italian Navy, for example, has carried out joint anti-piracy exercises with Iran.
The nuclear deal has represented the best opportunity for all those who have vested interests in Iran’s supposedly lucrative market to promote a misleading depiction of the country’s ruling regime. According to this deeply flawed narrative — seemingly taken for granted by most European institutions and member states — President Hassan Rouhani’s Iran has suddenly stopped being a major threat to international and regional stability. The truth could not be more different.
Major sectors of the Iranian economy are dominated by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, an internationally recognized terrorist organization — as was pointed out at a recent conference on Iran held at the Italian Senate and sponsored by United Against Nuclear Iran. It is difficult to do business in the country without enriching the armed group and its front companies and helping to support its activities, which include kidnapping, politically motivated arrests, terrorism, cyber espionage and cyber terrorism. Iran’s Western partners risk having blood on their hands.
Similarly, the United Nations Secretary-General has repeatedly expressed concerns about Iran’s abysmal human rights record. At least 2,691 people have reportedly been executed since Rouhani was elected, more than in any similar period in the last two decades. The regime also continues to execute minors and carry out torture and inhuman or degrading punishments.
Iranian officials who should be indicted for crimes against humanity are instead attending meetings with European governments. The Continent’s leaders seem to also be ignoring Tehran’s repeated, explicit threats against the State of Israel, its support of international terrorism and Islamic extremism, and its involvement in crimes against humanity in Syria.
In Iran, Europe’s silence is taken as encouragement; it has emboldened the mullahs to persist with abuses, even in the face of rising dissent and anger among the Iranian people, particularly the youth. Challenges to the regime’s aggression abroad and violence against its own citizens cannot be expected to come from anywhere within the regime itself. They will only come if brave Iranian activists and the international community work together to put pressure toward progress.
As the Iranian opposition leader Maryam Rajavi recently said, “The worst mistake committed by the United States in the region was its appeasement of the mullahs ruling Iran. Now, the region can move towards peace and tranquility to the extent that the U.S. distances itself from this disastrous policy. Likewise, the European Union may have a positive impact on the situation in Iran and the Middle East to the extent that it makes its political and commercial ties with Tehran contingent on an end to executions.”
Such a policy would be in keeping with the Lisbon Treaty, which states, “In its relations with the wider world, the [European] Union…shall contribute to peace, security, the sustainable development of the Earth, solidarity and mutual respect among peoples, free and fair trade, eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights, in particular the rights of the child, as well as to the strict observance and the development of international law, including respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter.”
If the EU is to honor the basic principles upon which it was founded, it must take a much different course in its dealings with Iran. The international community as a whole must end its silence and inaction over the crimes that the Iranian regime is committing both at home and abroad. And more than that, Europe must recognize and support the Iranian people’s struggle for freedom from their oppressive regime.
In so doing, it can play a key role in shaping global policies toward Iran that will improve the lives of its people and the stability of both the Middle East and the world.
Giulio Terzi is a former Italian foreign minister and a member of the advisory board of United Against Nuclear Iran.
Poland’s government on Monday showed no sign of backing down over a controversial budget vote that has sparked a growing political and constitutional crisis.
Hundreds of anti-government protesters gathered in front of parliament for a fourth day, while rows of police officers protected the building. Inside, opposition MPs refused to end a sit-in in the main debating chamber.
Piotr Duda, leader of the Solidarity labor union and a close government ally, threatened to call out his members in a show of support for the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party. “We’re preparing to come out on to the streets and be counted,” he told Polish state television.
Beata Szydło, the prime minister, denounced the opposition in an interview with the wSieci weekly. “This wave of hate that is being poured out, omnipresent aggression, one provocation after another is simply an effort to overturn the government and undo the results of the elections. There is no doubt about it.”
The crisis started last week when Marek Kuchciński, the speaker of parliament from PiS, proposed tough new restrictions on what reporters could do in parliament, reducing the number of accreditations and imposing limits on where they could work and what they could film.
Most media organizations complained, and they were backed by the opposition, whose MPs blocked the main podium in parliament.
In response, Kuchciński called a Friday meeting of MPs in another room in the parliament building where deputies voted on the annual government budget and a bill cutting benefits for communist-era secret police through a show of hands. Although Kuchciński said there was a quorum, the opposition insists the vote was irregular.
The opposition wants the restrictions on reporters lifted and another budget vote, arguing Friday’s vote was unconstitutional.
“Two conditions: media in parliament and another budget debate,” Ryszard Petru, leader of the opposition Modern party, told Poland’s Radio Zet.
Civic Platform, the largest opposition party, accused Kuchciński of breaking the law and notified the prosecutor’s office.
Petru and other opposition leaders met Sunday with President Andrzej Duda, and on Monday Duda met with Kuchciński and with Jarosław Kaczyński, the leader of PiS and Poland’s most powerful politician.
Duda issued an appeal Saturday, calling “on all sides of the political scene to calm the atmosphere.”
The problem for Duda is that he was chosen by Kaczyński to run in last year’s presidential elections, and so far hasn’t been able to distance himself from his political patron, despite a growing series of political clashes and crises as Law and Justice enacts its controversial political reform program.
With the president’s impartiality in question, there aren’t many other Polish institutions that are respected by all political parties who could act as arbitrators to end the crisis.
The powerful Roman Catholic Church, which played a crucial role in negotiating the communists’ retreat from power in 1989, is widely seen as a partisan ally of Law and Justice.
The courts, and particularly the Constitutional Tribunal, have been hobbled by the government and are largely ineffective. Warsaw has sparred with the European Commission over its policy toward the tribunal.
That clash is likely to continue following Monday’s retirement of Andrzej Rzepliński, the head of the tribunal. Duda is unlikely to accept tribunal’s nominations for his replacement, as the government moves to take full control of the court.
“[The] government will use this opportunity to replace Rzepliński — a staunch opponent of PiS — with a more compliant head,” said Andrius Tursa with Teneo Intelligence, a consultancy. “The brewing conflict over the new tribunal’s president will heighten domestic tensions. Public protests and counter-protests, which are already widespread across Poland, are turning increasingly confrontational.”
In Brussels, the College of Commissioners plans to take up the Polish issue during its Wednesday meeting, said Commission spokeswoman Mina Andreeva.
PiS does appear to be showing some flexibility on the issue of journalists in parliament. Stanisław Karczewski, the PiS speaker of the upper chamber Senate, said there was “no intention of limiting journalists’ access to the work of parliament.”
The opposition has seized on the crisis as a way of limiting PiS’ power. Law and Justice has an absolute majority in parliament, and the opposition has been unable to do much to stop the party’s legislative agenda. However, some street protests have been effective, forcing the government to back away from tough abortion restrictions in October.
“We are demonstrating because our civic freedoms are in danger. We don’t agree with a lot of what PiS is doing,” said Jędrzej Dudkiewicz, a participant waving Polish and EU flags during the anti-government march at the weekend.
One way or another, the European Parliament will have its say before any Brexit agreement is approved and a path is cleared for the U.K. to make its departure. Exactly how much say the unruly body of 751 MEPs will get — and when — could give negotiators on each side of the English Channel big headaches.
The EU treaties require the European Council to obtain “the consent” of the European Parliament before concluding an agreement with an exiting member of the bloc.
And therein lies the conundrum.
Putting a fully cooked deal in front of MEPs and asking them to bless it after negotiations are already completed is a recipe for disaster. “You know what happens,” one senior EU official said darkly. “They give you this.” He then put his thumb to his nose and wiggled his fingers in the air — in a very inelegant gesture that could only be interpreted as, “Buzz off.”
Give the Parliament too big a role in the Brexit negotiations and expect chaos, leaks and in-fighting. The chamber’s party groups rarely agree with each other; to listen to some people, even the U.K.’s MEPs will have a legal right to vote on the final Brexit agreement.
An initial draft negotiating plan put forward by the European Commission and Council had seemed to sideline the Parliament, prompting leading MEPs — including its outgoing president, Martin Schulz, and its own point-man on Brexit, former Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt — to threaten to open their own direct negotiations with the U.K.
At their summit on Thursday, EU leaders thought they had sidestepped that sand trap by agreeing to allow representatives of the Parliament to attend planning meetings that the EU’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier of the Commission, will hold with representatives of each of the 27 member countries.
With Schulz leaving, however, it’s impossible to know who will ultimately speak for the Parliament when negotiations begin next year, but it’s safe to bet the new president will want a bigger say. In post on Twitter, Schulz called the new plan “unsatisfactory” and Verhofstadt has already made clear he wants a bigger role than the Council and Commission are offering.
The bottom line? The devilishly complicated Brexit talks are certain to be further bedeviled by mischief-making MEPs, citing their rights under EU treaties, just as MPs in London have already complicated the move to trigger Article 50 by asserting their constitutional rights in Britain.
If the chief negotiators — Barnier for the EU, and David Davis (or in reality Oliver Robbins) for the U.K. — are smart, they’ll stay in close contact with Parliament honchos, getting buy-in for their positions along the way and even using Parliament as a wedge. As in, “sorry mate but that concession you want needs the consent of Parliament and I just won’t be able to sell it.”
This insight is from POLITICO’s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.
President-elect Donald Trump “doesn’t know much,” former President Bill Clinton told a local newspaper earlier this month, but “one thing he does know is how to get angry, white men to vote for him.”
Clinton spoke to a reporter from the Record-Review, a weekly newspaper serving the towns of Bedford and Pound Ridge, New York, not far from the Clintons’ home in Chappaqua, New York. The former president held court earlier this month in Katonah, New York, where he took questions from the reporter and other customers inside a small bookstore.
On the question of Russian cyberattacks damaging the candidacy of his wife Hillary Clinton, the former president said: “You would need to have a single-digit IQ not to recognize what was going on.” But he blamed FBI Director James Comey for her loss, telling those gathered around him that he had “cost her the election” by announcing with less than two weeks to go before the election that the bureau was examining fresh evidence related to her use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state.
Clinton’s comments were published in the newspaper’s print edition but have not been published online.
The former president confirmed that he had, in fact, received a phone call from Trump on the day after the election and that the Manhattan billionaire was strangely cordial, “like it was 15 years ago” when he was friendly with the Clintons and would socialize with them. Clinton said Trump told him that Hillary Clinton “was tougher than I thought she’d be.”
He also scoffed at the regular claim from Trump and his team that the president-elect’s Election Day win represented a “landslide” victory, despite the fact that he lost the popular vote. “Landslide? I got something like 370 electoral votes,” Clinton said, correctly recalling his 1992 total. “That was a landslide.”
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Kubiv defended the emergency nationalization of the country’s largest bank Monday, saying the takeover was transparent and based on international valuations.
The takeover of Privatbank is certain to prompt debate because one of its main owners, the oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky, has clashed repeatedly with President Petro Poroshenko.
Privatbank held about 20 percent of deposits in Ukraine, and customers accounts are now guaranteed by the government, according to Valeriya Gontareva, the governor of the central bank, according to local press reporters.
On a visit to Brussels, Kubiv said the takeover was carried out in accordance with all norms and was the product of 2-1/2 years’ work.
“Everything was done publicly, openly, transparently, based on international evaluations, including international financial institutions,” he told a press conference with EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini at a EU-Ukraine conference, adding that the bank was now 100 percent state-owned.
Kolomoisky, one of the richest men in Ukraine, served as governor of Dnipropetrovsk region before falling out with Poroshenko. He owns one of the most popular TV channels in Ukraine and has financed pro-government militias who fought Russian-backed separatists in the east.
“Each person that had accounts in Privatbank can receive 100 percent of the money,” Kubiv said, adding that electronic bank cards still work.
Mogherini called the nationalization a “bold” decision.
Ukraine’s economy has been on the brink of collapse since a popular uprising forced President Viktor Yanukovych from office in 2014, and Russian forces annexed Crimea. A war between Russian-backed rebels and Ukrainian government forces continues to simmer in the east, while the International Monetary Fund has provided billions of dollars keep the economy afloat while demanding sweeping reforms in the banking sector.
Only a small number of asylum seekers living in Germany have found a job in the past twelve months, despite government programs to help them get employment, Die Zeit reported Monday.
In the period between December 2015 and November this year, of the 400,000 migrants registered with employment agencies just 34,000 got a job, according to statistics from the Institute of Labor Market and Employment Research (IAB).
Employment minister Andrea Nahles’ job scheme, which started in August and was intended to create 100,000 publicly funded jobs for refugees, has so far only created 5,000 jobs, IAB’s chief Joachim Möller said.
Just under 60 percent of those who found a job worked in hospitality, followed by 20 percent working in economic services.
In 2015 and in the first eleven months of 2016, almost 1.2 million people applied for asylum in Germany, according to the Interior Ministry. The majority of migrants came from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Eritrea.
The British court system would be “overwhelmed” with cases if the government attempts to deport the 2.9 million EU citizens living in the U.K. post-Brexit, a parliamentary report published Monday warned.
The report by the Joint Committee on Human Rights stated “there could be the potential for significant, expensive and lengthy litigation leading to considerable legal uncertainty for a prolonged period of time.”
Harriet Harman, chair of committee, said in a statement that it was “not appropriate” to use human rights as a “bargaining chip.” International Trade Secretary Liam Fox in October said the uncertain status of EU nationals in the U.K. was one of the “main cards” in Brexit negotiations with the EU.
The committee said the question of the residence rights of EU citizens living in Britain and some 1.2 million U.K. citizens living outside Britain in the EU needs to be resolved. It recommended rights be safeguarded through a separate preliminary agreement with the bloc.
The fake news hit Trent, Italy, on Easter Sunday, 1475. A two-and-a-half year-old child named Simonino had gone missing, and a Franciscan preacher, Bernardino da Feltre, gave a series of sermons claiming that the Jewish community had murdered the child, drained his blood and drunk it to celebrate Passover. The rumors spread fast. Before long de Feltre was claiming that the boy’s body had been found in the basement of a Jewish house. In response, the Prince-Bishop of Trent Johannes IV Hinderbach immediately ordered the city’s entire Jewish community arrested and tortured. Fifteen of them were found guilty and burnt at the stake. The story inspired surrounding communities to commit similar atrocities.
Recognizing a false story, the papacy intervened and attempted to stop both the story and the murders. But Hinderbach refused to meet the papal legate, and feeling threatened, simply spread more fake news stories about Jews drinking the blood of Christian children. In the end, the popular fervor supporting these anti-Semitic “blood libel” stories made it impossible for the papacy to interfere with Hinderbach, who had Simonino canonized — Saint Simon — and attributed to him a hundred miracles. Today, historians have catalogued the fake stories of child-murdering, blood-drinking Jews, which have existed since the 12th century as part of the foundation of anti-Semitism. And yet, one anti-Semitic website still claims the story is true and Simon is still a martyred saint. Some fake news never dies.
Over the past few months, “fake news” has been on the loose once again. From bogus stories about Hillary Clinton’s imminent indictment to myths about a postal worker in Ohio destroying absentee ballots cast for Donald Trump, colorful and damaging tales have begun to circulate rapidly and widely on Twitter and Facebook. In some cases they have had violent results: Earlier this month a man armed with an AK-15 fired a shot inside a D.C. restaurant, claiming to be investigating (fake) reports that Clinton aide John Podesta was heading up a child abuse ring there.
But amid all the media hand-wringing about fake news and how to deal with it, one fact seems to have gotten lost: Fake news is not a new phenomenon. It has been around since news became a concept 500 years ago with the invention of print — a lot longer, in fact, than verified, “objective” news, which emerged in force a little more than a century ago. From the start, fake news has tended to be sensationalist and extreme, designed to inflame passions and prejudices. And it has often provoked violence.
The Nazi propaganda machine relied on the same sorts of fake stories about ritual Jewish drinking of children’s blood that inspired Prince-Bishop Hinderbach in the 15th century. Perhaps most dangerous is how terrifyingly persistent and powerful fake news has proven to be. As Pope Sixtus IV found out, wild fake stories with roots in popular prejudice often prove too much for responsible authorities to handle. With the decline of trusted news establishments around the country, who’s to stop them today?
* * *
Fake news took off at the same time that news began to circulate widely, after Johannes Gutenberg invented the printing press in 1439. “Real” news was hard to verify in that era. There were plenty of news sources — from official publications by political and religious authorities, to eyewitness accounts from sailors and merchants — but no concept of journalistic ethics or objectivity. Readers in search of fact had to pay close attention. In the 16th century, those who wanted real news believed that leaked secret government reports were reliable sources, such as Venetian government correspondence, known as relazioni. But it wasn’t long before leaked original documents were soon followed by fake relazioni leaks. By the 17th century, historians began to play a role in verifying the news by publishing their sources as verifiable footnotes. The trial over Galileo’s findings in 1610 also created a desire for scientifically verifiable news and helped create influential scholarly news sources.
But as printing expanded, so flowed fake news, from spectacular stories of sea monsters and witches to claims that sinners were responsible for natural disasters. The Lisbon Earthquake of 1755 was one of the more complex news stories of all time, with the Church and many European authorities blaming the natural disaster on divine retribution against sinners. An entire genre of fake news pamphlets (relações de sucessos) emerged in Portugal, claiming that some survivors owed their lives to an apparition of the Virgin Mary. These religiously inspired accounts of the earthquake sparked the famed Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire to attack religious explanations of natural events, and also made Voltaire into an activist against fake religious news.
There was a lot of it in that era. When, in 1761, Marc-Antoine Calas, the 22-year-old son of a respected Protestant merchant in Toulouse apparently committed suicide, Catholic activists spread news stories that Calas’ father Jean had killed him because he wanted to convert to Catholicism. The local judicial authorities posted signs calling for legal witnesses to corroborate the account, successfully turning rumors into official facts, and, in turn, official news.
Jean Calas was convicted on the rumor-fueled testimony and was publicly and gruesomely tortured before being executed. Horrified at the atrocity, Voltaire wrote his own counter attacks dissecting the absurdity that young Calas would have a full understanding of the meaning of conversion and that his peaceable father would hang him for it. The Calas story eventually sparked outrage against such fake legal stories, torture and even execution. It became a touchstone for the Enlightenment itself.
Yet even the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment could not stop the flow of fake news. For example, in the years preceding the French Revolution, a cascade of pamphlets appeared in Paris exposing for the first time the details of the near-bankrupt government’s spectacular budget deficit. Each came from a separate political camp, and each contradicted the other with different numbers, blaming the deficit on different finance ministers. Eventually, through government leaks and more and more verifiable accounts, enough information was made public for readers to glean a general sense of state finance; but, like today, readers had to be both skeptical and skilled to figure out the truth.
Even the glorified founders of the U.S. were perpetrators of fake news for political means. To whip up revolutionary fervor, Ben Franklin himself concocted propaganda stories about murderous “scalping” Indians working in league with the British King George III. Other revolutionary leaders published fake propaganda stories that King George was sending thousands of foreign soldiers to slaughter the American patriots and turn the tide of the War of Independence to get people to enlist and support the revolutionary cause.
By the 1800s, fake news was back again, swirling around questions of race. Like Jewish blood libel, American racial sentiments and fears were powerful in producing false stories. One persistent “cottage industry” of fake news in antebellum America were stories of African Americans spontaneously turning white. In other instances, fake news reports of slave uprisings or of crimes by slaves, led to terrible violence against African Americans.
Sensationalism always sold well. By the early 19th century, modern newspapers came on the scene, touting scoops and exposées, but also fake stories to increase circulation. The New York Sun’s “Great Moon Hoax” of 1835 claimed that there was an alien civilization on the moon, and established the Sun as a leading, profitable newspaper. In 1844, anti-Catholic newspapers in Philadelphia falsely claimed that Irishmen were stealing bibles from public schools, leading to violent riots and attacks on Catholic churches. During the Gilded Age, yellow journalism flourished, using fake interviews, false experts and bogus stories to spark sympathy and rage as desired. Joseph Pulitzer’s New York World published exaggerated crime dramas to sell papers. In the 1890s, plutocrats like Randolph Hearst and his Morning Journal used exaggeration to help spark the Spanish-American War. When Hearst’s correspondent in Havana wired that there would be no war, Hearst — the inspiration for Orson Welles’ “Citizen Kane” — famously responded: “You furnish the pictures, I’ll furnish the war.” Hearst published fake drawings of Cuban officials strip searching American women — and he got his war.
One silver lining in this long and alarming history of fake news is yellow journalism and its results—from civil violence to war — caused a backlash and sent the public in search of more objective news. It was this flourishing market that sparked the rise of relatively objective journalism as an industry in turn-of-the century America. For the first time American papers hired reporters to cover local beats and statehouses, building a chain of trust between local, state and national reporters and the public.
While partisan reporting and sensationalism never went away (just check out supermarket newsstands), objective journalism did become a successful business model — and also, until recently, the dominant one. In 1896, Adolph Ochs purchased the New York Times, looking to produce a “facts”-based newspaper that would be useful to the wealthy investor class by providing reliable business information and general news. Ochs showed that news did not have to be sensationalist to be profitable, though the paper was accused of being a mouthpiece for “bondholders.”
Of course, the objective journalism consensus had its hiccups. With the advent of World War II, and in light of the Nazi and Communist propaganda machines, there was concern about the U.S. government’s war-time involvement in producing news propaganda. In the 1950s, Joseph McCarthy was accused of manipulating reporters like “Pavlov’s dogs,” but a New Yorker article from the period insisted that reporters should report and not “tell readers which ‘facts’ are really ‘facts’ and which are not.” By the 1960s, a new generation of reporters signed on to report on “non-establishment” stories. Many of these reporters questioned the very ideal of objectivity, yet nonetheless, hewed to the basic guiding principle of reporting based on verifiable and reputable sources.
* * *
It wasn’t until the rise of web-generated news that our era’s journalistic norms were seriously challenged, and fake news became a powerful force again. Digital news, you might say, has brought yellow journalism back to the fore. For one, algorithms that create news feeds and compilations have no regard for accuracy and objectivity. At the same time, the digital news trend has decimated the force — measured in both money and manpower — of the traditional, objectively minded, independent press.
The Pew Research Center’s “State of the Media 2016” paints a grim picture for most serious news organizations. Advertising revenue is down; staffs continue to get cut; the number of newspapers has declined by 100 since 2004. Between 2003 and 2014, with the decline of the printed press, the number of professional statehouse reporters dropped 35 percent. Professional local beat reporters are also a dying breed. These figures, trained in basic journalistic principles, were locally known and trusted. They could be found in bars and local schools and acted as the human link between statehouses, Washington D.C. and the U.S. population. They were seen as local heroes. (Jimmy Stewart often played truth-obsessed newspaper reporters in films, like the 1948 thriller, Northside 777.) But today, these popular role models and societal links are gone and with them a trusted filter within civil society — the sort of filter that can say with authority to fellow local citizens that fake news is not only fake, it is also potentially deadly.
Real news is not coming back in any tangible way on a competitive local level, or as a driver of opinion in a world where the majority of the population does not rely on professionally reported news sources and so much news is filtered via social media, and by governments. And as real news recedes, fake news will grow. We’ve seen the terrifying results this has had in the past — and our biggest challenge will be to find a new way to combat the rising tide.
GDAŃSK, Poland — Lech Wałęsa sits at his desk, peering at his computer screen and poking at the keyboard, before getting up heavily to settle in a worn armchair, his stomach straining at his shirt. The signature walrus mustache that makes him the world’s most recognizable Pole is trimmed a bit closer and completely white.
Lech Wałęsa is an old man now. But the 73-year-old still has fight left in him.
“I’m on my way to eternity, but as long as I have strength I don’t want to allow the destruction of Poland,” he says, sitting in his office in the European Solidarity Centre, a museum dedicated to the history of Solidarity, built steps away from the old gates of the Lenin Shipyard where Wałęsa once worked as an electrician.
Wałęsa has won the Nobel peace prize and served as Poland’s president. The Solidarity labor union he led helped end Central European communism. But he still has one more political goal: to bring down Poland’s ruling Law and Justice party and end the dominance of its leader Jarosław Kaczyński. “Kaczyński is breaking principles and the constitution and the laws and principles of the separation of powers,” says Wałęsa. “He’s dangerous and irresponsible. It’s going to turn out badly.”
The question is if Wałęsa can leverage the affection in which most Poles hold him into a political force. He hasn’t been relevant in politics since losing the presidency in 1995; an attempted comeback in 2000 garnered him just 1 percent of the vote.
Since then, he’s been giving paid speeches and riding on his past glory. He’s also a frequent commentator on current politics and a keen blogger, although some of his observations bear the hallmarks of someone who’s spent a lot of time on the internet. During one interview a few years ago, he swerved into talking about anti-gravity devices. This time, he veers into the weeds once again, wondering aloud if there are too many people in Poland, and how nice the country’s landscape would be if there were a lot more forests and wild boars and a lot fewer towns and cities.
“My husband exchanged me for a computer,” was how his wife Danuta put it in an interview after the publication of her 2011 bestseller recounting their marriage difficulties.
With not much to keep him at home, Wałęsa has long bridled at being shunted aside by younger generations of politicians. And today, the old warhorse is sniffing at the possibility of a return to relevance.
Instead of sitting in quiet retirement, he’s taken to the road in an attempt to create a national movement for a referendum calling for new elections and taken to lobbying the European officials who make it a point to swing by his office, urging them to take a harder line with his country’s government.
Poland is already in trouble with the European Commission, which instituted an unprecedented rule of law procedure against Warsaw after it hamstrung the country’s top constitutional court. But Wałęsa is not satisfied with what he sees as mostly empty words. He wants action. Specifically, he wants Brussels to threaten to revoke Poland’s membership in the bloc if the Law and Justice party continues to break democratic rules.
“I don’t like speaking against Poland, but I have no choice,” he says. “It has to be that if you belong to a club but don’t fit then they throw you out. Losing the right to vote [in the EU] is too little. They have to throw us out.”
Warsaw has ignored the Commission demands, says it has “ended cooperation” with the Council of Europe, the Continent’s human rights watchdog, and pays no heed to regular condemnations in the European Parliament.
Wałęsa and Jarosław Kaczyński, 67, have known each other for decades, and they share a mutual animosity — hate is not too strong a term.
In a recent interview with the foreign press, Kaczyński told reporters “not to treat Wałęsa seriously,” saying the former Solidarity leader has “great intellectual deficits, character defects and a terrible past.” Wałęsa, he added, had “discredited himself.”
Jarosław’s twin brother Lech, a former Polish president killed in a 2010 plane crash, was a leading anti-communist activist and was one of the advisers to Wałęsa and other union leaders during the 1980 strike at the Gdańsk shipyard that led to the creation of Solidarity.
After Poland’s communist government declared martial law in 1981, Wałęsa and Lech Kaczyński spent time in prison. As Jarosław was only a minor player in the opposition, the authorities didn’t bother interning him.
In the roundtable talks between Solidarity and the government in 1989 leading to the end of communist rule, the Kaczyńskis served as advisers to Wałęsa, only to fall out with their patron not long after his successful 1990 presidential campaign. Within a couple of years, Jarosław Kaczyński was leading loud anti-Wałęsa protests through central Warsaw. They’ve been bitter enemies ever since.
Kaczyński’s disdain of Wałęsa is both personal and political. He’s upset that Wałęsa is seen as Poland’s liberator from communism, feeling his brother gets short shrift from historians. “The powerful figure really running the union was my brother,” Kaczyński said earlier this year — a claim Wałęsa dismissed as “nonsense,” adding that he fired the twins because they were unreliable and dangerous.
Attacking Wałęsa is a core part of Kaczyński’s political message. He likes to argue that the post-1989 transformation was deeply flawed and that Wałęsa bears the blame for a deal that allowed the communists to exchange political power for being allowed to hang onto their economic gains.
Wałęsa insists that the transformation was a huge success, pointing out that Poland has been one of Europe’s fastest growing economies for decades. “We made maximum use of our victory and the EU to lift up Poland,” says Wałęsa. “Today’s Poland is different. Remember those roads and those horses? Now I sometimes get lost in Gdańsk because so much has changed. “
He does recognize that many people were left behind by a tumultuous quarter-century of economic reforms. “We did one thing wrong, we forgot about the people, we forgot we had to help them,” he says.
It was Kaczyński who managed to target those disaffected people with generous social spending promises — one of the reasons his party won last year’s parliamentary and presidential elections. And now that he controls the country, he wants to reshape the historical narrative and in particular Wałęsa’s role.
The biggest blemish in Wałęsa’s biography comes from 1970, when he was a young worker and labor organizer in the wake of a bloody military crackdown against striking shipyard workers. There is pretty strong evidence that he was cowed by the secret police and signed an agreement to inform for them, obtaining the code name “Bolek.” He was apparently stricken from the rolls of agents in 1976 due to a lack of cooperation.
Wałęsa himself has never admitted to agreeing to cooperate with the secret police, instead calling it an “incident” in his past and saying in interviews that he played “games” with the secret police and tried to trick them. He was cleared of the accusation of being a collaborator by a special court in 2000.
“If I were unimportant, no one would have noticed me,” he says when asked about the accusations. “When they say these sorts of things, it means that I am strong.” At an anti-government demonstration this summer, hundreds of protesters showed up wearing cardboard walrus mustaches to show their support for the old leader.
It’s that base of affection and respect that Wałęsa hopes to tap into as he makes his regular trips around the country to build opposition to the government and to Kaczyński.
“I am a practicing Catholic, and I will be forced to account for my talents. I have to use them the best I can. Otherwise I’ll go to hell.”
Four influential Democratic and Republican senators amplified their call Sunday for a special investigation into foreign cyber warfare, defying Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who has already ruled out a select panel to probe Russian interference into the U.S. elections.
Senators Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Jack Reed (D-R.I.) urged McConnell in a new letter to create a new Senate select committee on cyber, a panel that Schumer said would not only focus on Russian meddling but potential threats from other countries including China and Iran.
“Recent reports of Russian interference in our election should alarm every American,” the four senators wrote to McConnell in the Sunday letter. “Cybersecurity is the ultimate cross-jurisdictional challenge, and we must take a comprehensive approach to meet this challenge effectively.”
Senators including Schumer and McCain had previously called for a select committee specifically examining the Russian involvement into the election. But the Sunday call — amplified through Sunday show appearances, a news conference and finally, a joint letter — renews the scrutiny of the Russian interference that President-elect Donald Trump has dismissed as “ridiculous” and “just another excuse” from Democrats who lost on November 8.
“We don’t want this investigation to be political like the Benghazi investigation. We don’t want it to just be finger pointing at one person or another,” Schumer said during his own news conference in New York. “We want to find out what the Russians are doing to our political system and what other foreign governments might do to our political system, and then figure out a way to stop it. Only a select committee can do it.”
During an appearance Sunday morning on CNN’s “State of the Union,” McCain stressed that a select committee is needed not only to determine what happened this year, but “the whole issue of cyber warfare where we have no strategy or no policy.”
“It is one area where they have an advantage, perhaps the only area where our adversaries have an advantage over us,” McCain said.
For McCain and Graham in particular, their unrelenting pressure for a select committee investigating the Russian meddling into the U.S. elections is in direct contrast to their own Senate leader. McConnell has condemned the Russian interference into the attacks and backs a congressional investigation into the matter, but has stressed that work should be in the hands of the Senate Intelligence Committee and its chairman, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.). Burr released his own statement Friday outlining how Intel will investigate the cyber intrusions, including plans for a series of public and classified hearings on the issue.
A spokesman for McConnell on Sunday referred to the majority leader’s previous remarks on the issue, but said he would review the latest letter.
Meanwhile, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) will also hold a classified briefing and an opening hearing next month on Russian interference.
But McCain, Graham, Reed and Schumer — a group that includes respected national security voices from both parties, as well as the incoming Senate minority leader — insist that with too many committees having the authority to investigate cybersecurity, one select panel is needed to cut across all of them.
The Senate Armed Service Committee, Intelligence Committee, Judiciary Committee, Commerce Committee, and Homeland Security Committee all have some jurisdiction over cybersecurity issues. And “cyber is the rare kind of all-encompassing challenge for which the Congress’s jurisdictional boundaries are an impediment to sufficient oversight and legislative action,” the senators wrote to McConnell.
In New York, Schumer flatly said an Intelligence Committee investigation was “not good enough.”
“First, things could be left out. There could be holes that no committee covers,” Schumer said during his news conference. “Second, we could get contradictory information … And third, the existing committees are very, very busy.”
McCain and Graham are also going against the views of Trump, who has repeatedly underscored his disagreement with the intelligence community’s view that the Russians interfered in the elections. Both the FBI and the CIA have concluded that the Russian cyber-intrusions were meant to aid Donald Trump’s bid for the White House, according to the Washington Post.
When asked by host Jake Tapper if he is worried about Trump’s relations with Russia and its leader, Vladimir Putin, McCain said he hopes that Trump will “quickly understand what the Russians are all about and that is they are ahead of us in many respects on the whole issue of cyber warfare.”
“There’s no doubt they were interfering and no doubt that it was a cyberattack,” McCain said on CNN. “The question is now how much and what damage and what should the United States of America do, and so far we’ve been totally paralyzed.”
In the senators’ view, a new select committee on cyber would have two main tasks: a “top-to-bottom” view of Russian interference in the 2016 elections, as well as writing a package of cybersecurity legislation that would “address the gaps in our current statutory regime that governs our cyber laws.
“We share your respect for, and deference to, the regular order of the Senate, and we recognize that this is an extraordinary request. However, we believe it is justified by the extraordinary scope and scale of the cyber problem,” the senators wrote. “Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to address this unique challenge.”
When the Electoral College meets Monday for the 58th time in American history to cast the only official vote for president, its 538 members will be acting as the most powerful political institution in the world.
Yet there’s little understanding of who these 306 Republicans and 232 Democrats are, the role they play, or how they were selected. That’s because presidential electors have never done anything more than rubber-stamp the results of the general election.
But a movement of restive Democratic electors is threatening to upend that highly scripted tradition in an attempt — however unlikely — to stop Donald Trump from winning the presidency.
In recent weeks, Democratic electors and their allies have clamored to transform the Electoral College into what they claim Alexander Hamilton intended it to be: a deliberative body that serves as a buffer between the popular vote and the election of a United States president, and safeguards against the election of an unqualified president. They’re hopeful that interpretation of its role results in a rejection of Trump when the body meets next week. It’s a long-shot effort — and one Republican leaders are working to guard against.
Here’s a viewer’s guide to how the Electoral College works, who will cast the votes, what to watch for — and what could go wrong.
Who are the presidential electors?
Behind every electoral vote is an actual human being.
One is even related to Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton: her husband, former President Bill Clinton, is a New York elector and is slated to travel to Albany to cast his ballot.
Electors aren’t officially picked until Election Day. When voters go to the polls, they’re actually casting ballots for their party’s slate of electors, rather than a presidential candidate. Though Trump and Clinton’s names appear on the ballot, they’re really stand-ins for electors. And the statewide popular vote winner determines which party sends its slate to the Electoral College.
Trump won the popular vote in 31 states that include 306 electoral votes — and as a result, 306 members of the Electoral College will be Republicans from those states. Hillary Clinton won the popular vote in 19 states and the District of Columbia, adding up to 232 electoral votes — which is why 232 Democrats will join the Electoral College as well.
How do people become electors?
Electors earn their positions through complicated and often random processes that differ from state to state — and that’s the source of the unrest plaguing the Electoral College today.
Democratic and Republican state parties nominate their own slates of electors — some as early as the spring and others as late as October. In many states, elector candidates are picked at congressional district and state conventions, when local activists also pick their delegates to the national convention. Elector contests are usually afterthoughts compared to the more sought-after convention roles.
In Missouri, this process helped elect a Republican anti-abortion activist named Tim Dreste, who was convicted in the 1990s for inciting violence against abortion providers. In Michigan, Republicans at their state convention chose William Rauwerdink, who served jail time for a massive accounting fraud scandal that also required him to pay nearly $300 million in restitution. In Texas, a Democratic elector candidate told POLITICO she supported Jill Stein for president and ran to be an elector to raise awareness for a friend convicted on drug charges.
But the most important factor — and the one contributing to recent unrest — is the fact that many electors were selected in the heat of a divisive and protracted 2016 primary season. As a result, elector slates in many states were packed with supporters of Bernie Sanders and Ted Cruz, many of whom were left embittered by the outcome of divisive primaries.
In other states, electors are picked by party leadership, leading to a more controlled process that rewards donors and insiders. In Ohio and New York, for example, the Trump campaign worked with the state Republican party to identify loyal electors.
California’s process may be the oddest of all: The winner of the Democratic primary in each of the state’s congressional races — and its most recent two Senate races — nominate electors. That’s why House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi’s daughter Christine is an elector, as well as Democratic congressman Xavier Becerra’s daughter Olivia and Dianne Feinstein’s granddaughter Eileen.
How many electoral votes does each state get?
Under Article II of the Constitution, each state is allocated a number of electoral votes equal to its number of seats in Congress — plus two for its senators. That means low-population states like Montana, Wyoming and Alaska get three electoral votes. California gets the most, with 55 electoral votes. Texas gets 38, while Florida and New York each get 29.
Article II actually gives state Legislatures the power to choose electors, but that process has been outsourced to political parties.
In all, there are 538 electoral votes — one for every member of Congress and the Senate, as well as three for Washington D.C. Typically, when presidential candidates win the popular vote in a state on Election Day, they claim all of that state’s electoral votes. That winner-take-all system has become the norm, and it exists in every state except Maine and Nebraska, which award votes to the statewide winner, and also to the winner of each congressional district in the state.
To become president, a candidate must amass 270 electoral votes, a majority.
When does the Electoral College meet?
Federal law prescribes that the members gather in their respective state capitals on “the first Monday after the second Wednesday in December.” This year, it’s December 19.
What do electors actually do when they meet?
It’s different in every state. Some hold grand vote-casting ceremonies, others are more low-key. There’s no set process for the way electors cast their votes other than that they do it on the same day. Each elector gets two votes: one for president and one for vice president — a process laid out by the 12th Amendment.
To cast their votes, federal law prescribes that each elector sign six certificates. One gets mailed to the president of the Senate — Joe Biden in this case. Two others go to their state’s secretary of state. Two more go to the National Archives. The last goes to a local judge.
Some states have allowed electors to cast a secret ballot vote, others have call for public processes for declaring votes. There are no rules that govern whether electors must announce their intended vote before they write it down.
What are ‘faithless’ electors?
Any electors who refuse to support their party’s presidential candidate are referred to as “faithless.” And they’re a rare breed. There have only been 157 in history, and most of them cast ballots in the 19th century.
The last time there was more than one faithless vote against a presidential candidate occurred in 1832, when two Maryland electors abstained. The most ever in a presidential vote came in 1808, when six Democratic-Republican electors rejected James Madison. (Faithless votes against vice presidential candidates have been slightly more common.)
The last time an elector cast a faithless vote? That was 2004, when a Democratic Minnesota elector cast a vote for John Kerry’s running mate, John Edwards.
This time, there are 10 electors — nine Democrats and one Republican — threatening to abandon their parties’ candidates as part of an effort they’re hoping convinces 37 Republicans to join them and block Trump’s election. The plan is as radical as it is unlikely. But even if they gain no additional support, they could eclipse the 1808 election — and potentially disenfranchise millions of voters in the process.
Can faithless electors be stopped?
This is the million-dollar question. In at least 21 states the answer is no. But 29 states have laws on the books that require electors to support their party’s candidate. There’s widespread – even bipartisan – belief that those laws may be unenforceable and unconstitutional, but they’ve never been tested or enforced before.
In three states — California ,Colorado and Washington — Democratic electors are suing to invalidate binding laws, hoping that a broad federal court ruling might gut the laws in all 29 states and free dozens of Republican electors to vote against Trump. They routinely cite Alexander Hamilton in their arguments. It was Hamilton in the Federalist Papers who outlined the concept of the Electoral College as a deliberative body that could act as a check on popular whims.
A 1952 Supreme Court election left the question open. The ruling in Ray vs Blair determined that political parties may extract pledges from electors — but those oaths can’t necessarily be enforced.
On late Friday, advocates for freeing electors got their first-ever legal decision validating their argument. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers Colorado, Utah and a slew of Midwestern states suggested state officials may be constitutionally barred from removing electors once they begin casting their ballots. And they mapped out a legal path that supporters of freeing electors might follow.
What happens after the vote
The votes transmitted to the president of the Senate will be read aloud during a January 6 joint session of Congress, according to provisions in federal law. The certificates will be unsealed and read alphabetically by state and recorded. If there are any disputed votes, members may lodge objections and ultimately both branches will resolve them.
How likely is it that 37 Republican electors will vote against Trump?
Not very. Only one Republican elector, Chris Suprun of Texas, has declared that he intends to vote against Trump, and efforts by anti-Trump forces to rustle up additional names have yielded none willing to come forward publicly. Though Harvard University constitutional law professor Larry Lessig has claimed to have upward of 20, there’s been no evidence that he and his allies are making inroads. Republican National Committee officials who conducted a whip count of the 306 Republican electors said they expect Suprun to be the only defector,
“We expect everything to fall in line,” RNC Chairman Reince Priebus said on “Fox News Sunday.”
What would happen if 37 Republican electors voted against Trump?
If 37 or more Republican electors ditched Trump — and no other candidate won a majority — the election would be sent to the Republican-controlled House of Representatives.
In that scenario, each state delegation would get a single vote for president. And their choices are restricted to the top three electoral vote getters, two of whom are virtually certain to be Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. There are 32 states with majority Republican delegations and 16 states with Democratic majorities. One state has a tied delegation.
If the House were unable to deliver a majority of votes to any of the three candidates, the final choice would rest with the Republican-controlled Senate.
Britain needs continuity in its trading arrangements with the EU, Liam Fox said Sunday, but warned of striking a transitional Brexit deal that was too similar to membership in the bloc.
The international trade secretary told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show he wanted the EU without the U.K. to be successful and trade deals that “minimize trade barriers” but refused to be drawn on whether Britain should remain a part of the EU’s customs union.
Describing himself as “instinctively a free trader,” Fox did not answer when asked if he was in favor of a transitional arrangement with the EU to tide Britain over between a formal exit in 2019 and any new trade deal with Brussels, as backed by his cabinet colleague Philip Hammond, the chancellor.
“That depends” on the kind of transitional deal that can be struck, Fox said, warning that an arrangement that was too close to the status quo would go against the wishes of those who voted to leave the EU.
Fox also said he “did not recognize” the figures quoted by Michel Barnier, the European Commission’s Brexit negotiator, who said the U.K. would have to pay “tens of billions” into the EU budget to cover Britain’s share of outstanding pensions liabilities, loan guarantees and spending on U.K-based projects.
Asked about the charge made Sunday morning by Nigel Farage, who said cabinet ministers had been banned from talking to him, Fox said he’d had “no such instructions.” He repeated the government’s line that there is “no vacancy” for a new British ambassador to the United States, a job that Donald Trump has said Farage would be well suited for.
He also dismissed suggestions that Prime Minister Theresa May should call early elections in 2017, saying there would be “enough political instability” in Europe next year with elections due in France, Germany and the Netherlands.
Speaking just before Fox on the BBC show was former chancellor George Osborne, who said the British government fought “the wrong campaign” on Brexit and many of its arguments “fell on deaf ears.”
Osborne, relegated to the backbenches by May after she took over at 10 Downing Street, said the Remain campaign “lacked some of the authenticity of the Leave campaign.”
He said many of the topics that he, ex-PM David Cameron and other Remainers wanted to talk about did not make headway with voters, which left then focusing too much on the economic woes they said would befall Britain after a Brexit vote.
Osborne said he hoped the economic predictions he made before the referendum — including a so-called punishment budget — “turn out not to be true” but “let’s wait and see what happens.”
The former chancellor said it was vitally important to keep London a financial center after Brexit, adding that the failure to do so would benefit New York rather than European rivals such as Dublin or Frankfurt.
Osborne said the U.K. should not lose the “massive contribution” that immigration has made to the country but admitted that the Cameron government’s pledge to reduce the numbers of people coming in and then failing to hit its own targets “obviously hurt us in the referendum.”
Asked if he would like to see a second referendum, on the Brexit deal that May strikes with the bloc, Osborne said No — “the first referendum was enough for me.”
Members of the British cabinet have been banned from talking to Nigel Farage, the former UKIP leader said Sunday.
Speaking to BBC Radio 4, Farage said he wanted to act as a “bridge” between the U.K. and the Donald Trump presidency thanks to his friendship with the president-elect.
Farage this week visited Trump Tower for the third time since the tycoon’s election win and Trump has said the Euroskeptic would make a good ambassador.
But Farage said the unwillingness of the U.K. government to make use of his ties to Trump showed how “petty, small-minded and tribal” British politics is, and said members of the cabinet were not allowed to talk to him.
The government has not responded to the allegation.
Farage also said he disliked the word “populist” to describe anyone who is against what he called the “global elite,” saying he was “hacked off” at the use of the term in the media.
He also said he had received death threats for the past four years including 10 in the past two weeks.
 
PARIS — A majority of French voters think conservative candidate François Fillon will become president next year but only 28 percent of them want that to happen, according to an IFOP poll released Sunday by Journal du Dimanche.
Fillon in November won the primary contest organized by mainstream conservative party Les Républicains, seeing off six other contenders including former president Nicolas Sarkozy and the favorite, Alain Juppé, the mayor of Bordeaux.
He has been attacked since then both by the Socialist Party of sitting President François Hollande and the far-right National Front for his plans to overhaul the health care system and shrink the public sector ranks by 500,000, criticized as too brutal.
Fillon has shed part of his health care plan since then, and remains the favorite to win the presidency in elections due in May next year.
Of the voters polled by IFOP, 55 percent think he will win. But only 28 percent want that to happen, which confirms other recent polls that see Fillon getting between 26 and 29 percent of the vote in the first round of the election.
Fillon, however, may have cause for worry. According to IFOP, 72 percent of the French consider he is not attentive enough to their problems and 62 percent think his platform is “worrying.” Even 50 percent of right-wing voters consider that the case.
In the same newspaper, Jean-Claude Mailly, the leader of France’s largest public sector union, warns Fillon of a “boomerang effect” if he tries to “ram his program through” next year.
A “liberal shock” would only weaken the French economy, said the general secretary of Force Ouvrière, and cutting 500,000 jobs from the public sector is “totally unrealistic.”
France will see seven candidates go head to head in the left-wing primaries next month to be nominated for the presidential election next year, according to Reuters.
The Socialist party, which is organizing the primaries, said Saturday they will be held January 22 and 29, before the presidential elections in April-May.
President François Hollande said earlier this month he would not seek re-election.
Hollande’s former Prime Minister Manuel Valls is seen as the leading contender to win his party’s nomination. He will face competition from former economy minister Arnaud Montebourg and former education minister Benoît Hamon, Reuters reported.
They both resigned from Hollande’s government in protest over his economic policy, which they claimed was too liberal.
Another former education minister, Vincent Peillon, and former housing minister Sylvia Pinel, the only female candidate, will also run.
Far-left politician Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Green party leader Yannick Jadot are also running, according to Reuters.
Police in Brussels arrested 70 people involved in a demonstration Saturday against the European far-right Alliance for Peace and Freedom party after it turned violent.
The demonstrators, who did not have official authorization, started in Square De Meeus, near the Place du Luxembourg this morning and marched to Porte de Namur.
During the protest some people attacked bus stops and the window of a bank was also damaged, according to rtbf.de.
They were protesting against the euroskeptic APF party, founded in 2015, described by one demonstrator as being “openly fascist” and using “violence and hatred to achieve their ends.”
Its members include Greece’s Golden Dawn, Italy’s Forza Nuova, Spain’s Democracia Nacional, Germany’s NPD and Belgium’s Nation movement.
“We cannot tolerate that they meet here near the European institutions and spread their evil ideology,” the protestor said.
A suspected car bomb killed 13 soldiers and injured dozens more traveling on a bus in Kayseri, Turkey, on Saturday, according to media reports.
The Turkish Army said 48 people have been injured and civilians are likely to be among them, according to BBC News.
The military personnel were traveling to the market in the Central Anatolia town. Pictures shows the bus ripped apart and in flames while people were being pulled from the wreckage.
It is the latest attack in Turkey after a series of bombings this year by Kurdish militants and jihadists. Last week, the former claimed responsibility for a blast in Istanbul that killed 44 people.
 
 
 
WARSAW — Poland’s long-running political crisis took a dramatic turn in Warsaw, with the action playing out live on television screens in prime time Friday and continuing into Saturday.
Anti-government demonstrators blocked access to the parliament buildings and opposition MPs staged their own protest inside after the ruling party pushed through the annual budget in a vote without the participation of most of the opposition.
Polish opposition leaders called for days of protests in Warsaw and other Polish cities, saying the government led by the Law and Justice party is violating the constitution.
European Council President Donald Tusk, the former prime minister of Poland and an adversary of the current leaders, appealed “to those who have real power for respect and consideration of the people, constitutional principles and morals.”
Poland’s interior minister accused the opposition of attempting a coup by occupying the parliament’s central hall. Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Jaroslaw Kaczyński, the Law and Justice leader and de facto leader of Poland, had to be evacuated from the building early Saturday morning.
The crisis started when the ruling Law and Justice party pushed through rules earlier this week that limited journalists’ access to the parliament buildings. The government said the reporters’ presence made for a chaotic work environment.
Polish journalists have long had the run of the parliament building, conducting interviews in the building’s main hallways and easily interacting with MPs. Their presence has also led to embarrassments, with reporters filming MPs munching sandwiches in the debating chamber, sleeping in hallways or showing up for work drunk.
The opposition and most of the press were strongly opposed to the new rules, and opposition MPs blocked access to the podium in the main debating chamber of parliament on Friday.
In response, the speaker of parliament called for a meeting in a separate room. There he said that a quorum of 237 MPs had shown up. With most opposition MPs outside the room, the government adopted the budget — the most important bill of the year —by a show of hands. It also passed another bill slashing benefits for pensioners who had served in the communist-era secret services.
The opposition insisted that the budget vote was illegal.
“We have no evidence that there was a quorum. Speaker [Marek] Kuchciński was not in control of the voting. There was no electronic counting,” Sławomir Neumann, parliamentary leader of the opposition Civic Platform party, told reporters.
Law and Justice insisted nothing was wrong.
“There was a quorum. The budget was legally adopted,” said Kaczyński, the leader of Law and Justice.
Law and Justice won the presidency and a majority in parliamentary in elections last year. Since then, it has taken a firm grip on the public media, purged the leadership of state controlled companies, and hobbled the country’s top constitutional court.
The party argues it is acting to bring down a web of corruption holding the country back. Its actions have sparked growing domestic protests and put Poland at odds with the European Commission, which has launched an unprecedented procedure against Warsaw for violating the bloc’s democratic norms.
This article has been updated to clarify that most opposition MPs were not present during the budget vote.
President Barack Obama on Friday expressed support for Donald Trump taking a fresh approach to America’s foreign policy, though he cautioned that the president-elect should do his homework first and reminded him that there’s only one commander in chief at a time.
“I think all of our foreign policy should be subject to fresh eyes,” Obama told reporters at his end-of-year news conference at the White House.
He said he was proud of his administration and believes he’s a better president now than when he was first sworn in, “but, you know, if you’re here for eight years in the bubble, you start seeing things a certain way, and you benefit from, the democracy benefits, America benefits from some new perspectives.”
“And I think it should be not just the prerogative but the obligation of a new president to examine everything that’s been done and see what makes sense and what doesn’t,” he continued.
Obama was responding to a question about his reaction to the congratulatory call Trump accepted earlier this month with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen. Trump’s unprecedented conversation with the leader of Taiwan broke with America’s decades-long “One China” policy, acknowledging a nation that China views as an outlaw province.
It raised questions at the time as to whether Trump’s may not have realized the gravity of his action, or had signaled a shift in U.S. policy.
Acknowledging that it’s “not completely satisfactory,” that status quo has maintained peace and allowed Taiwan to have a successful economy, Obama said. “But understand, for China, the issue of Taiwan is as important as anything on their docket,” he said. “The idea of one China is at the heart of their conception as a nation. And so if you are going to upend this understanding, you have to have thought through what the consequences are because the Chinese will not treat that the way they’ll treat some other issues.”
Trump and his transition team downplayed the discussion as a simple courtesy call, and Trump defended himself and lashed out at China in a series of subsequent tweets.
“There’s probably no bilateral relationship that carries more significance and where there’s also the potential, if that relationship breaks down or goes into a full-conflict mode, that everybody is worse off,” Obama said, ultimately concluding that the nation’s relationship with China and how the U.S. approaches Taiwan is “fine for him to take a look at.”
Obama, who has been advising his successor during the transition, encouraged Trump to remember that’s he’s still the president-elect until next month.
“What I’ve advised the president-elect is that across the board on foreign policy, you wanna make sure that you’re doing it in a systematic, deliberate, intentional way,” he said. “And since there’s only one president at a time, my advice to him has been that before he starts having a lot of interaction with foreign governments, other than the usual courtesy calls, that he should wanna have his full team in place, that he should want his team to be fully briefed on what’s gone on in the past and where the potential pitfalls may be, where the opportunities are, what we’ve learned from eight years of experience, so that as he’s then maybe taking foreign policy in a new direction, he’s got all the information to make good decisions.”
China’s relationship with Taiwan “goes to the core of how they see themselves,” Obama added. “And their reaction on this issue could end up being very significant. That doesn’t mean that you have to adhere to everything that’s been done in the past. It does mean that you gotta think it through and have planned for potential reactions that they may engage in.”
Switzerland on Friday pulled back from its proposals to impose quotas on migration after an almost three-year tussle with the EU that laid bare the difficulties Britain will face in Brexit talks.
Switzerland and the European Commission have been locked in a battle of wills since February 2014, when Swiss voters sought to end “mass immigration” in a referendum. That direct challenge to one of the EU’s fundamental freedoms threatened to rupture the commercial ties that granted Switzerland access to the single market.
The Swiss negotiations have been closely watched as a template for upcoming Brexit talks.
On Friday, the Swiss parliament voted for new restrictions on EU residents in the labor market but without establishing quotas for EU workers in the country, which was a red line for the Commission.
“At first sight, the law appears to go in the right direction,” said Margaritis Schinas, the Commission’s spokesperson. “It is a good sign that the bill does not target any more quotas on the freedom of movement for EU citizens and it does not plan to restrict their access to the Swiss labor market.”
Opponents of the deal already announced they will launch a new initiative for a referendum.
The Union Démocratique du Centre, the Swiss populist party which triggered the referendum in 2014 blasted the “arrogant” parliamentary bill, saying in a statement “the freedom of movement agreement will aggravate social problems, poverty and the overpopulation of our beautiful country.”
Downing Street on Friday rejected suggestions that Britain could face a bill of up to £50 billion when it leaves the European Union.
The figure was reported as being under discussion by EU leaders at a leaders’ summit in Brussels Thursday, and would represent the U.K.’s contribution to long-term EU commitments such as pensions.
A spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May dismissed the figure, saying that “negotiations have not begun and so that figure does not actually exist,” the Guardian reported.
“As was set out last night by my colleagues in Brussels, that is one of a range of issues that will have to be dealt with. The outcome of those negotiations will be something for the future.”
Scheduled talks on Brexit over dinner after Thursday’s EU summit, without May, were reduced to a 20-minute discussion after earlier talks ran long by almost three hours.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire. After a year scarred by referendums that hurled defiance at Brussels, climaxing in Britain’s June vote to quit the bloc, the European Union is bracing for more storms in 2017, starting with the landfall of “Hurricane Donald” from across the Atlantic.
The U.S. president-elect was the elephant in the room at the EU’s last summit of 2016. EU leaders rushed to extend their sanctions against Russia for six months over its destabilization of Ukraine, mindful that the incoming U.S. president has expressed solidarity with President Vladimir Putin and that his designated secretary of state has voiced opposition to sanctions.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel confirmed that uncertainty over Trump’s intentions toward Moscow featured in the summit debate but said the 28 leaders had agreed they “should not anticipate the inauguration of a president of the United States who is not yet in office.” European Council President Donald Tusk said there were too many confusing signals for the EU to be able to “assess responsibly” what the incoming administration’s approach to Russia might be.
Trump’s shadow loomed large over an unprecedented agreement to boost European defense cooperation and increase military spending, given his campaign criticism of NATO as “obsolete,” accusations of free-riding against U.S. allies, and the doubts he has raised over whether his administration would come to the aid of Baltic NATO members that feel threatened by Russian cyberattacks and intimidation.
The “Trump factor” also lurked behind preparations for negotiations next year on Britain’s withdrawal from the EU. The populist U.S. leader is a declared supporter of Brexit and a personal friend of UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who has vowed to “take the wrecking ball” to the rest of the EU.
Anxious that Trump may be tempted to play EU capitals off against each other, fellow leaders rallied behind Merkel’s firm line of rejecting any “cherry-picking” that would let Britain keep the benefits of the EU single market while stopping free movement of people and refusing the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
While European diplomats are hoping that the Washington foreign policy establishment and Congressional Republicans will gradually bring the unpredictable tweeter-in-chief around to the importance of working constructively with the EU, NATO, the World Trade Organization and the United Nations, they acknowledge that his disdain for international institutions may cause ructions in 2017.
In the corridors of the Brussels summit, there were fears of early clashes with Trump over climate change and trade as well as how to deal with Russia and Iran.
Whether the EU can stop the rot in 2017 and prevent more unraveling of European integration is far from assured. A March summit marking the 60th anniversary of the founding Treaty of Rome offers an opportunity to showcase the political and economic accomplishments of this unique experiment in supranational governance among sovereign states.
But another ceremonial renewal of the marriage vows, coupled with commitments to further progress on security, energy and digital integration, may not cut much ice with angry voters, especially if it coincides with a deepening banking crisis in Italy.
Europe’s 2017 electoral calendar is a potential minefield. Geert Wilders’ surging populists could become the biggest party in Dutch parliamentary elections in March and may end up as indispensable to forming a governing coalition. The Netherlands is already an awkward partner because of a citizens’ initiative referendum law used by Euroskeptics this year to trip up an EU trade deal with Ukraine. A summit deal on assurances designed to enable the Dutch parliament to ratify the accord despite the plebiscite vote could play into Wilders’ hands by feeding accusations that the EU ignores national democracy when it produces inconvenient results.
Next comes France. While conservative former Prime Minister François Fillon has emerged as frontrunner for the presidential election after winning the centre-right primary, a mood of anti-elite resentment combined with hostility to immigration and Islam mean a victory for far-right populist Marine Le Pen cannot be entirely ruled out, especially if ISIL manages to carry out more attacks before the vote.
That could be a show-stopper for the EU, tearing apart the Franco-German partnership that is the backbone of the union. While German policymakers tend to dismiss the idea of a Le Pen victory as scare talk, they acknowledge it would rob Berlin of its essential partner.
Le Pen has promised a referendum on withdrawing France from both the euro and the European Union, although she has also suggested she would demand a U.K-style renegotiation before any plebiscite. Either option could wreck the EU or leave it an empty shell.
Remember: it was French rejection of a European Defence Community in 1954 that scuppered the first attempt at political unification of the Continent before the creation of the common market.
Most EU governments seem confident that the conservative Merkel will remain chancellor after Germany’s September general election, probably at the head of another “grand coalition” with the Social Democrats, since the electoral arithmetic seems unlikely to give her a stable coalition either with the liberal Free Democrats or with the Greens. But she is also likely to be weaker in her fourth and presumably final term, and less able to persuade reluctant Germans to make financial or political sacrifices to hold Europe or the eurozone together.
Then there is the possibility of an early election in Italy in which the anti-EU populist 5Star Movement would have a strong chance of outpolling the ruling centre-left Democratic Party, leading to more political instability in the eurozone’s heavily indebted third-largest economy.
Maintaining the unity of the EU 27 once the Brexit negotiations begin will be the biggest challenge for a weakened EU leadership.
Tusk will be struggling to secure reappointment in March for another 2-1/2 years despite the hostility of his home government in Poland. The “grand coalition” of mainstream pro-European parties that has kept the European Parliament in line since 2009 could break up over the election of a new president of the assembly in January, making the legislature more unpredictable and petulant.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, battered by criticism of his erratic performance, faces a rearguard battle to preserve the EU executive’s core powers to negotiate trade deals, regulate competition and state aid to industry, and supervise fiscal discipline.
All in all, the chances of steadying the EU ship in 2017 look slender, and the risks of another shipwreck are alarmingly high.
Paul Taylor writes POLITICO‘s Europe At Large column
Es war der Morgen nach dem Weihnachtsgipfel, und allüberall im Land waren Menschen unzufrieden, bis hin zum Küchenpersonal: Teilnehmer grantelten über Donald Tusk, weil die Veranstaltung lang und länger wurde. Mario Draghi und Jens Stoltenberg darüber, dass sie lange warten hatten müssen. Und die Köche der Mächtigen, denn ihre Vorbereitungen für ein Weihnachtsmahl waren vergeblich.
Ratspräsident Tusk wollte die Debatten abkürzen und Effizienz beweisen, er tat es, indem er einen Vielzahl an Themen in einen einzigen Nachmittag presste. Anders als sonst sollten die EU-Regierungschefs nicht zwei Tage tagen, sondern ein Jahr rasch beenden, wie es noch keines gab.
Das Jahr des Brexit, Trumps Jahr, das des großen Grabens im Umgang mit der Flüchtlingskrise. Kurz sollten sie sie halten, nicht abseits der Agenda plauschen. Ein italienischer Diplomat klagte, wortreich, Tusk wolle die Freude am Austausch beschneiden— dabei war es Italiens Ex-Premier Matteo Renzi, der sich am lautesten darüber beschwert hatte, viel zu viel Zeit auf Gipfeln verbringen zu müssen.
Aber es ist ja keine Schulklasse, die Tusk da vor sich hat, und die Präsidenten, Premierminister und Bundeskanzlerinnen halfen sich selbst und fassten sich grad genau so kurz, wie sie wollten.
Die Migrationsdebatte dauerte “überraschend” lange, sagte ein EU-Beamter. Helfer und Zuarbeiter mehrerer Regierungschefs waren hingegen überhaupt nicht überrascht. Und auch der Tagesordnungspunkt zum Assoziierungsabkommen mit der Ukraine dauerte, die Mark Rutte aus den Niederlanden wollte und bekam, um das Abkommen noch zu retten, das die Niederländer in einem Referendum zerschossen hatten.
“Und so sind die Stunden verstrichen, wie Sie gemerkt haben”, sagte Merkel bei einer Pressekonferenz kurz vor Mitternacht, die laut Tusks Plan um halb sieben Uhr abends hätte stattfinden sollen. Aber zu jenem Zeitpunkt hatte weder ein Meinungsaustausch mit NATO-Generalsekretär Jens Stoltenberg begonnen noch die Zusammenkunft mit EZB-Präsident Mario Draghi. Beide musste auf Einlass in den Saal der Mächtigen warten und waren mit den vier Stunden Verspätung nicht glücklich.
Es wurde so lang, dass das Abendessen der 27 — ohne Theresa May aus Großbritannien — abgesagt und zu einem Stuhlkreis herabgestuft wurde. Hunger konnte ohnehin niemand vorschützen: Bis 18 Uhr war die Runde beim Mittagessen gesessen, von einem spanischen und einem portugiesischen Koch zur Feier des Beitritts beider Länder vor 30 Jahren vorbereitet und “das beste Essen jemals im Rat”, wie jemand sagte, der davon kostete.
Der Brexit-Teil ging schnell: “Das war keine besonders drängende Aufgabe, denn Großbritannien hat den Antrag (auf Austritt) ja noch nicht gestellt”, sagte Merkel. Eintägige Gipfel, “das gab es auch unter Hermann Van Rompuy schon”, Tusks Vorgänger. “Ich würde micht nicht darauf festlegen, dass es generell keine zweitägigen Gipfel mehr gibt.” Die Sache würde mit Tusk noch einmal besprochen.
“Diesmal war es möglich”, an einem Tag fertig zu werden, sagte ein Diplomat, seine Ansicht kaum verbergend, dass es eigentlich nicht so war. “Nächstes Mal brauchen wir vielleicht wieder zwei.”
Dann wird die Klage wieder lauten: Die Gipfel sind zu lang.
Florian Eders Kolumne aus Brüssel erscheint samstags in der Welt. Und hier. 
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces said on Friday they had suspended the evacuation of civilians from the city of Aleppo accusing rebels of breaking the ceasefire.
BBC News quoted “government sources” saying rebels had broken the terms of the ceasefire by blocking the evacuation of civilians from two pro-government towns.
A spokesperson for the EU’s external action service said that the bloc’s call for an immediate evacuation still applied. The spokesperson reiterated that EU leaders “strongly condemn the continued assault on Aleppo by the Syrian regime and its allies, notably Russia and Iran, including the deliberate targeting of civilians and hospitals.”
About 8,000 people have left the city since Thursday, but at least 50,000 are still trapped, the United Nations Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, told reporters in Paris.
It was unclear when the evacuations would resume.
BERLIN — Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said Friday during a visit to the German capital that for the austerity-battered country to recover economically, Greece needed a plan and patience, “but also courageous decisions.”
The meeting of Germany’s 62-year-old conservative Chancellor Angela Merkel with Tsipras, the 20-years-younger prime minister of Greece’s left-wing Syriza party, takes place against the backdrop of an escalating conflict between Greece and its eurozone lenders. Greek plans to loosen the purse strings for pensioners and the crisis-struck Aegean Islands have fueled anger among the country’s eurozone lenders. Creditors, particularly in the German capital, accuse Athens of breaking the agreement not to implement fiscal changes that could affect Greece’s bailout goals without consulting them.
“Greece should no longer be part of the crisis, but part of the solution,” Tsipras said ahead of talks with Merkel.
On Wednesday, eurozone creditors announced to suspend a deal for short-term debt relief clinched in early December after Tsipras unexpectedly offered poor Greek pensioners a pre-Christmas bonus worth €617 million and to lower the value-added tax burden to the eastern Aegean Islands, where tourism industries have suffered because of the refugee crisis.
On Thursday evening, Tsipras urged other EU leaders in Brussels at the sidelines of an EU summit to lift the suspension of the country’s debt relief measures.
Among Greece’s creditors, Germany has been particularly hesitant to agree on substantial concessions until the country has delivered on reforms demanded by its international creditors.
France has defended Greece against the hardening stance, with French President François Hollande urging EU institutions Thursday to treat the Greek government with dignity.
Despite the tensions, Greece’s ongoing financial crisis will not be at the center of Friday’s talks, Tsipras and Merkel said ahead of the meeting. Merkel stressed that any final decision over Greek bailouts would be made among the institutions financing Greece’s bailout program.
Another topic on the agenda is discussing how to distribute some of the 62,000 refugees in Greece, more than 16,000 of which are still living in crowded conditions on Greek islands. Last year, EU countries agreed to distribute some of those asylum seekers around the bloc, but the implementation of the scheme has come to a de facto halt after several countries refused to accept significant numbers.
“Again and again, we will together stand up for a fair distribution of refugees within the EU and that a country like Greece is not left alone,” Merkel said in the joint press statement with Tsipras.
Berlin is concerned that unless Greece manages to accommodate those asylum seekers, many of them will find their way toward Germany. With the campaign ahead of Germany’s national election in the fall of 2017 looming, Merkel is eager to avoid such images and headlines — and she knows she will depend on the cooperation of Greece even more if the refugee deal between the European Union and Turkey, largely brokered by the German chancellor, falls apart.
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko on Friday urged the Netherlands to ratify a pact between his country and the EU after amendments were agreed by EU leaders.
Poroshenko wrote on Twitter “we call upon the Netherlands to fulfill the relevant procedures to ensure its swift entry into force.”
He added that the agreement, which is already in place on a provisional basis, “has already brought a number of positive results.”
Although the Dutch government approved the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement — as did all other EU member countries — a majority of voters rejected it in a non-binding referendum in April.
That prompted Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte to raise concerns about the deal with his EU counterparts — and winning their support.

It is now up to the national parliament in The Hague to ratify the agreement, but with Rutte’s government short of a majority, the support of opposition parties is needed. The vote might not take place until after the parliamentary election in March, local media report.
Poroshenko said he looked forward to “continuous support from the EU” and said that the agreement is in the strategic interest of both sides.
PARIS — The humanitarian crisis in Aleppo is starting to make life difficult for François Fillon.
The former French prime minister, who calls for closer ties between France and Russia, came under fire Friday over his non-committal attitude toward the Syrian city’s plight, with left-wing opponents accusing him of being cold-hearted.
“I don’t understand François Fillon,” French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault told RTL radio. “He shows a certain amount of cynicism, I would say an icy cynicism, when what is needed today is a bit of generosity.”
“I am sorry, but it’s indifference that kills people,” added Ayrault.
Earlier this week in Brussels, Fillon, a conservative presidential candidate who is currently leading in polls, criticized what he called “the failure” of Western diplomacy to resolve the conflict in Syria.
He also called for an EU initiative to bring all actors, including “those who have committed crimes,” to the negotiating table. But he made no direct reference to the situation in Aleppo, where the United Nations has denounced killings of civilians in rebel-held areas by Syrian forces.
Fillon’s unwillingness to fall in line with French diplomacy over Syria and Russia has brought repeated accusations that he is not independent enough.
“I find that there is a pro-Russian tendency with François Fillon that makes me think we are not preserving France’s independence,” said former prime minister Manuel Valls, whom polls show winning the left-wing primary in January.
Valls added that France should maintain a dialogue with Moscow but not fail to denounce what he called an “intolerable” situation in Aleppo that was an “injury for humanity.”
With a presidential election five months away, the attacks on Fillon’s pro-Russian stance underscore how sharply Moscow and its ally, Syria, have come to divide France’s political class, at a time when a suspected Russian role in hacking the U.S. elections is dividing American politics.
On one side, Fillon, far-right chief Marine Le Pen and Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a hard-left presidential candidate, are supportive not just of Moscow but of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government and its Iranian ally.
Le Pen, whose party accepted €11 million in loans from a Russian-backed bank and sought additional funds, has made no comment on Aleppo.
Mélenchon wrote Wednesday on his blog that “deadly propaganda” was making “any debate, any criticism” impossible on the Syrian situation. “France and the United States,” he added, were guilty of “preventing the formation of a universal coalition with Russia to fight Daesh’s [ISIL] armed bands.”
On the other side, President François Hollande’s government and the Left remain critical of Moscow, its support for Assad and their assault on Aleppo.
Assad’s “regime thinks it has won but all it has won is one more horror” by taking Aleppo, Hollande said Monday in Paris after a meeting with a leader of the Syrian opposition. “There will be no impunity for what is happening in Syria.”
‘Twas the morning after the EU summit, and all through the lands stirred feelings of annoyance, even among the mice.
The leaders of Europe at Donald Tusk’s party running so long and so late.
Mario Draghi and Jens Stoltenberg for being forced to wait.
And the poor poor chefs, whose efforts to lay on the greatest of spreads, all went to waste.
No, it was not a happy hangover from the last meeting of EU chiefs to end this strangest of political years.
Council President Donald Tusk had planned to shorten the debates, and so he did — by jamming everything into one afternoon and evening.
Rather than call a two-day summit, as usual, to wrap up the year of Brexit, war, Trump and mass migration, Tusk insisted leaders be short, concise and stick to a full one-day agenda. An Italian diplomat was overheard complaining, the words streaming mellifluously, about the stingy time allotted for leaders to discuss all these important matters.
Alas politicians will be politicians, and the 28, soon to be 27, grandees of Europe spoke as they pleased.
The debate on migration ran “surprisingly” long, to hear one EU official. Aides to several prime ministers weren’t surprised at all. So also ran long the discussion of the EU’s proposed association agreement with Ukraine, requested by Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who faces opposition to that deal in parliament and from the far-right in the coming elections.
“And so the hours flew, as you have noticed,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel told reporters at a press conference shortly before midnight, that was supposed to happen at 6.30 p.m., according to Tusk’s original schedule.
By that promised close, an exchange of views with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg hadn’t even started yet. Nor had a conversation with Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank. Both were forced to wait, not happily, for four hours each until the mighty EU leaders called them in.
It went on so long that the dinner of 27 (minus the snubbed Theresa May) was downgraded to an informal huddle. This crowd wanted to get out of Brussels by midnight. They could hardly claim hunger since all had been sitting over a “working lunch” — prepared in grand fashion by visiting Spanish and Portuguese chefs to mark the 30th anniversary of their countries’ accession to the Union — until after 6 p.m.
That one went fast, Merkel said: “It wasn’t a very pressing task, given that the UK hasn’t triggered” Article 50 and divorce proceedings.
“We used to have one-day summits also under [Tusk’s predecessor] Herman Van Rompuy,” the German leader added. “I wouldn’t tie myself down when it comes to whether we generally won’t have any two-days summits any more.”
“This time it was feasible,” an EU diplomat said, barely disguising his feeling that it wasn’t. “Next time, we might need two days again.”
Merkel promised it would be “raised again with Tusk.”
Then, EU leaders might go back to complaining about being stuck in Brussels for even longer.
In between interviews with potential nominees and calls with foreign leaders, Donald Trump has found the time to attack a Manhattan magazine publisher, an Indiana union leader, the casts of Saturday Night Live and Hamilton, multinationals, China, flag-burners and others who have challenged or annoyed him.
Even though he’s now the president-elect and even though the stakes are so much higher, Trump has shown repeatedly that he won’t change his ways.
“In his mind, he’s an outsider, he’s an outer-borough brawler,” said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who has been friendly with him for decades, in an interview. “He always felt like people were looking down on him and attacking him. People don’t understand that and don’t see him that way anymore, but he still sees himself like an outsider.”
After a recent TV appearance, where Sharpton described him as a Queens boy who made it on the big stage by clawing his way to the top and fighting those who took him on, the civil-rights pastor and TV star was surprised to get a call from Trump.
“I saw you on television this morning,” Sharpton said Trump told him. “You got me. You got this outer-borough thing.”
Trump romped through the presidential campaign as a counterpuncher, upsetting more than a dozen other Republicans and Hillary Clinton, who many predicted would easily beat him. Now that he’s president-elect and controls trillions of dollars and the country’s workforce, military and nuclear weapons, his continued obsession with perceived slights raises questions about whether he has the self-restraint and focus that the Oval Office requires.
The idea of delegitimizing his victory has especially appeared to get under Trump’s skin. Trailing by almost 3 million in the popular vote, he has repeatedly criticized Jill Stein, a third-party candidate who scored few votes, for pushing a recount effort in three states he narrowly won over Clinton. He has asked aides and advisers about the status of the recount, which seemed doomed to fail, a transition aide said. And he has sent staffers to states where the recounts are happening to fight it off, the aide said.
But his strongest public reaction came in response to allegations that it may have been Vladimir Putin – and not his own rousing populist message – that helped him clinch the White House.
Last week Trump unnerved Democrats and Republicans alike when he went on the attack after a Washington Post report revealed that the CIA believed Russia had not only hacked Democratic targets to disrupt the U.S. election, but also with the purpose of electing Trump.
“These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction,” his transition office wrote in an unsigned statement late Friday night that also made false claims about the size of his victory.
Trump’s reaction, within two hours of the news emerging, struck many foreign policy experts as unprecedented. There was little time between the report and the statement, leading experts and even some of his allies to question whether Trump or his aides knew all the facts before criticizing the agency. A transition spokesman didn’t respond to a request for comment on whether Trump spoke with top intelligence officials before criticizing the CIA.
The CIA feud left even some of his allies and friends puzzled. Peter King, a Republican from New York, said he believed Congress should investigate the matter, unlike Trump, even though he said the CIA should provide more answers.
Trump’s attacks can send stock market prices soaring and plunging, as shown in recent weeks when the president-elect went after Boeing and Lockheed Martin for the price tag of their defense contracts. They can send international ripples around the world, like when he went after China. Chuck Jones, the Indiana union leader, recently reported death threats and hundreds of attacks after Trump criticized him. He’s not alone.
“You see an uptick in nasty messages when he goes after you. I have gotten some death threats when he has attacked me,” said Evan McMullin, a third-party presidential candidate who Trump has continued to mention during his victory tour. “You just have to get de-sensitized to it.”
Trump seems unlikely to change his tactics, say aides, advisers and people who have observed him for years and watched over the past five weeks as he has attacked important and unimportant foes alike who cross him. “He’s always going to respond if someone attacks him,” said Roger Stone, a longtime confidante. “It’s his nature.”
And that has annoyed some close to him. “Sometimes, you think, you’re the president now, why do you care about that person or insult?” one transition aide said. “No one is really paying attention until he tweets about it. And then you have a whole day of controversy.”
Some of Trump’s supporters and even begrudging critics say the concerns of Trump’s volatile reactions are overblown. And it remains unclear if he will have access to Twitter, one of his favorite attack tools, in the Oval Office.
On the trail, supporters said they appreciated his candor and saw him not like other politicians. Many of his supporters liked that he didn’t take guff from others. And he beat a crowded field of Republicans and Clinton, even as political commentators repeatedly said an errant attack would doom him.
Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to George W. Bush, said Trump’s tone is often “jarring” and that “sometimes he counterpunches too hard, and he hits himself.” But he said he appreciated Trump resetting the table.
“People are sick and tired of people who know how to pucker their lips and get nothing done. Trump speaks in a way that like that, and a lot of people find it refreshing. We’re all missing something,” he said.
“Every time he says one of these things, people over-interpret it,” Fleischer added. “He reminds me of a throwback to the LBJ era. You wonder what LBJ would have been like with a Twitter.
On more instances than not, people like that he is blunt, he tells it like he sees it and he’s not particularly polished. It won’t surprise me if he gets a lot more done than some other presidents have because he’s willing to upset the status quo, and I think it’s a healthy thing.”
There is also some strategy to it. He can often dominate news cycles when others criticizing him, knowing his supporters will often take his word and see him in a position of strength. Wayne Barrett, a Trump biographer, said “there’s some genius to it” and that his “very planned” gestures send a message to others who might attack him.
People who know Trump say he often becomes obsessed with grudges, particularly if someone questions his credibility or the legitimacy of his victory or personal characteristics. He stews over insults, sometimes mentioning them days later.
But he can also prove conciliatory, which will keep foreign leaders and others on their toes, Fleischer says. Critics are scared he will change his tune on international affairs based on emotions.
Aides say he won’t insult people who praise him or show him respect. Angry at the New York Times on a recent morning, he called it “failing.” After a cordial meeting with its editors and reporters that afternoon, he called it “a “great, great American jewel.”
Trump, who frequently berated Obama, especially after the president roasted him at the White House Correspondents Dinner in 2011, has since changed his tune, calling the president “great.” He has vowed to listen to some of his advice and has even consulted him on some of his cabinet picks.
The same has been the case with Sharpton. The reverend said Trump called him angry over criticisms the civil-rights leader made on TV several years ago. They later made up at a Saturday Night Live reunion. They hadn’t talked until recently, when Sharpton made nice comments on TV. Trump said he imagined they’d fight again one day, Sharpton said, recounting the call. The two laughed, and Sharpton said he admired that Trump had tapped into blue-collar voters across the country because they liked his brawling style.
“He’s got to be careful because he has power far beyond ramifications of a real-estate deal. We’re not talking about a deal here, we’re not talking about the nation, the world,” he said. “When you’re in the lounge in Vegas, you better show you can perform. He can’t do his best lounge act from Queens fighting the Manhattan real estate aristocracy when he’s on the biggest stage in the world,” he said.
“I hope for the country’s sake that he changes, but I wouldn’t bet much on it,” Sharpton said.
The Republican party is warming to Russian President Vladimir Putin — even as evidence of his regime’s interference in the election intensifies.
While some Republicans in Congress have slammed the Russian strongman and called for investigations into the Kremlin’s attempts to influence the election, the party’s voters are increasingly fond of Putin.
The dramatic shift in sentiment — for a party that once defined itself by its staunch opposition to the Soviet Union — comes as President-elect Donald Trump has steadfastly refused to criticize Putin and signaled a different tone with Russia policy.
Trump has downplayed any role Russia played in the election and high-profile hacks of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. And some of his top appointments — including his pick for national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and his selection for secretary of state, ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson — have longstanding ties to Russia and personal relationships with Putin himself.
The change in views has been swift.
Back in July 2014 just 10 percent of Republicans held a favorable view of Putin, according to a poll conducted by the Economist and YouGov. By September of 2016, that number rose to 24 percent. And it’s even higher today: 37 percent of Republicans view Putin favorably, the poll found in December.
While the Russian president still has a net unfavorability rating among Republicans, his standing has improved dramatically – from a net negative of 66 points to a mere 10 points.
By comparison, only 17 percent of Republicans have a favorable view of President Barack Obama, the December poll found. Obama’s net negative among Republicans is 64 points – significantly worse than the party’s take on Putin.
Within the GOP there has always been a faction with more sympathetic views toward Putin and Russia. Republicans like Rep. Dana Rohrabacher have taken a more open-minded view of Putin’s behavior in places like Crimea and Syria. But for years Rohrbacher and others like him were pariahs who existed outside the mainstream.
Now Rohrabacher — who was a speechwriter for Reagan and talks of fighting communism — is being floated for State Department appointments. (Rohrabacher said Thursday that he had been considering a role in Trump’s State Department but decided to stay in Congress.)
“There’s a lot of negative things about [Putin] that are accurate but there are a lot of negative things about him that have been said that are inaccurate,” Rohrabacher told POLITICO. “At least the other side of the coin is being heard now. … Finally there’s some refutation of some of the inaccurate criticisms finally being heard.”
For the GOP, it’s been a sudden shift from a hard line on Russia, toward something resembling respect, if not warmth.
Daniel Vajdich, a former foreign policy adviser on the Senate Foreign Relations committee, recalled traveling to Foreign Relations Chair Sen. Bob Corker’s home state of Tennessee just after Russia annexed Crimea and supported rebel incursions in Eastern Ukraine.
For the Corker constituents Vadjich met, “no other issue—not Iraq, Syria or Iran— topped the emotion or frustration about what the Russians were doing in Ukraine and the way the Obama Administration was failing to do anything about it,” he said.
Now, the Republican president-elect Trump has said he would consider recognizing Crimea as part of Russia.
“It is dizzying,” said Vajdich, who has worked on the presidential campaigns of Gov. Mitt Romney, Gov. Scott Walker and Sen. Ted Cruz, all of whom represented the decades-old consensus view of Russia. “It’s just totally unexpected and counterintuitive to see how Republicans have shifted. I do think it has something to do with the general attitude that Trump expressed towards Putin and Russia. There’s no doubt there’s a very direct causal relationship about the permission he gave people.”
There also may be some politics at play, said Larry Sabato director of the center for politics at the University of Virginia, because Putin’s alleged involvement boosted the GOP. Among the alleged Russian incursions into the election were hackers obtaining and leaking emails from the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.
“It’s just based on the ancient principle the enemy of my enemy is my friend. I don’t think it’s much more complicated than that,” said Larry Sabato, director of the center for politics at the University of Virginia. “The Republican base, particularly the Trump part of the Republican base, is going to regard anyone and anything that helped their great leader to win as a positive force, or at least a less negative force.”
Trump, for his part, continues to contest that there was any Russian involvement in the election-related hackings.
“If Russia, or some other entity, was hacking, why did the White House wait so long to act? Why did they only complain after Hillary lost?” Trump wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.
In fact, Trump is incorrect to say that federal agencies did not talk about Russian interference until after he had won. They did so more than a month before Election Day.
The Department of Homeland Security and Director of National Intelligence released a statement on Oct. 7 saying they were “confident that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including from US political organizations.”
The New York Times has since reported that the CIA concluded the efforts were aimed at lifting Trump’s prospects, rather than just destabilizing the election. And NBC has reported that Putin himself was personally involved in the effort.
Trump’s campaign contends that news of Russia’s involvement in the hacking is a media-driven plot to “delegitimize” the election.
Even if Trump’s ascendance allowed a more sympathetic view of Russia and Putin to become more mainstream, Vajdich does believe the appeal of Putin, and his leadership style, always existed in certain corners of the GOP.
“I think there’s something inherently attractive about Vladimir Putin when you compare him to President Obama and that’s something that’s going to resonate with some Republicans regardless of what Trump says,” Vajdich says.
“He’s decisive and unapologetically pursues Russian interests in a way Obama didn’t for America, in the minds of many Republicans.”
That reverence for Putin’s persona, if not his policies, extends even to those Republicans who decry Russia’s incursions abroad. Vice President-elect Mike Pence, for example, did not share Trump’s reservations about attacking Putin – he called Putin “small and bullying” at a September campaign event – but he still said he agreed with Trump that Putin was a stronger leader than Obama.
Even in 2014, in the midst of Russia’s widely condemned annexation of Crimea, Rudy Giuliani, who would become one of Trump’s most vocal surrogates, praised Putin for acting like “a leader.”
“[Putin] makes a decision and he executes it, quickly. And then everybody reacts. That’s what you call a leader,” Giuliani said.
And Russia has reciprocated.
State media has been full of praise for Trump, Tillerson and Flynn, noted Angela Stent, director of Georgetown’s Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies and a member of the senior advisory panel for NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander in Europe from 2010-2016. Russian media also portrayed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in a persistently negative light.
“Certainly the Kremlin didn’t like Hillary Clinton,” Stent said.
But there’s another aspect to the affinity between some Republicans and Putin.
Putin has fashioned himself as a defender of traditional values around the world, something that has a particular appeal to the socially conservative elements of the Republican Party. He’s actively pushed anti-LGBTQ and anti-abortion legislation in his country. Just this week, the Russian government prevented the UN Security Council, in their statement about outgoing UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, from praising the Korean’s promotion of LGBTQ rights during his time in office.
“President Putin sees himself as the leader of the conservative world, battling decadent liberal values,” former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Mike McFaul told POLITICO. “When I was in the government there were overtures between evangelical and conservative religious organizations and Russians, including those associated with the government. … What brought them together was an ideological affinity about issues like LGBT in particular.”
The warmth toward Russia is not reserved to Trump and elements of the party’s base.
Rohrabacher went to great lengths in an unsuccessful attempt to derail legislation that Russia opposed in Congress. He even used information provided directly from the Russian government to make his case.
And he took to the op-ed pages of USA Today on Wednesday to defend Russia from accusations of attempts to influence the election, while also praising the work of hackers who targeted Democrats. He also wrote more broadly about his thoughts on the Russia-U.S. relationship.
“Putin is by no means guiltless in the deterioration of relations between our countries. Both sides failed,” he wrote. “We broke faith with a Putin-brokered deal with Libya’s Moammar Gadhafi, which resulted in his downfall and an expansion of radical Islamic power. Putin has had ample reason to lose faith in America’s resolve.”
“Several people like myself, in order to say what we thought was truth, have been willing to take on the common knowledge that we think was wrong,” Rohrbacher told POLITICO. “There’s been this vilification not only of the Russian leader but of Russia itself.”
While Rohrabacher’s views have been injected into the mainstream, the party still has elements that are vigorously opposed to Putin.
There will be many Republicans, Sabato said, “who will not adapt to this new reality, they have long regarded Putin as one of the great evils of the world…They may just not bring it up very much.”
Some Republicans remain unwavering and outspoken in their opposition to Putin. And they expect voters will get behind them.
“For years, American diplomats and leaders have pretended Russia is our ally — we’ve tried resets and ignored their aggressions — that’s nonsense,” Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), who did not support Trump, said in a statement to POLITICO. “Putin and his friends are murderous thugs and it’s time Americans stopped pretending otherwise. Period.”
Isaac Arnsdorf contributed reporting.
One of the few pieces of good news coming from Iraq recently has been that the Iraqi army is winning the battle to retake Mosul from the Islamic State. A victory in Mosul, the nation’s second-largest city and Northern Iraq’s most important industrial center, would mark the Islamic State’s most significant battlefield setback since the U.S. began targeting the group back in August 2014.
Iraq’s impending victory will be due almost exclusively to the Iraqi army’s elite 1st Special Operations Brigade, an American-trained counterterrorism unit of some 10,000 soldiers representing all of Iraq’s religious sects whose senior officers are graduates of the U.S. Army Ranger School. In mid-October, the elite Iraqi unit (called “the Golden Brigade,” but now referred to by Iraqis as “the Golden Division”), was designated as the lead unit in the fight to retake ISIL-held Mosul.
The U.S. has trained some 35,000 Iraqi soldiers over the past decade, but none as important as the Golden Division. The elite unit, which answers directly to the Iraqi prime minister, serves as a model for what the U.S. hopes the Iraqi army will become: well-armed, capably led, incorruptible and nonsectarian. Over the past year, the division’s soldiers have proved to be tenacious fighters, having led the successful fights to oust ISIL from Ramadi and Fallujah. Since the battle for Mosul began, the division has retaken the city’s eastern suburbs from ISIL in a grueling block-by-block contest.
But sources inside the U.S. Central Command tell me that this success has come at a terrible price, one that could have dire consequences for Iraq in the long run. With the division suffering “horrific” casualties every day, senior U.S. Centcom officers are worried that the grinding battle is slowly destroying the division itself. If that happens, which appears likely, Iraq will lose its best guarantee against civil war — the only force capable of keeping the peace when Iraq’s sectarian divisions, temporarily dampened by having to fight a common enemy, reemerge.
Put simply, the Golden Division’s fight for Mosul could go down in history as one of the greatest victories of the Iraqi government — and its last.
* * *
Veterans of the 101st Airborne Division know Mosul well. The storied U.S. military division first came into Mosul after the fall of Baghdad in April 2003. Under the command of then-Maj. Gen. David Petraeus, the 101st transformed Mosul into one of the few American success stories of the war. “Money is ammunition,” Petraeus told his soldiers, and they passed it out freely, focusing on getting the city’s water, power and sewer systems back in operation. The spending was so lavish that Iraqis gave Petraeus, called “Peaches” by his West Point classmates, a new nickname: They called him Malik Daoud — “King David.” Building on that reputation, Petraeus became, for a time, America’s star general, the man who was said to know the secret to victory in Iraq.
It is a measure of how badly things have come apart in Iraq 13 years later that the city of 1.8 million is now unrecognizable to the 101st, whose 2nd Brigade Combat Team is advising the Golden Division in its battle against the 5,000 militiamen of the Islamic State for control of the city. The division is now two miles from the Tigris River, which divides Mosul in two — a significant advance from where the unit started when it began its operation on October 17.
The Golden Division entered Mosul having been hardened by fights against the Islamic State for control of Beiji, Ramadi, Fallujah and Bartella. No one doubts that the Iraqi army will reconquer this city too, but Mosul has been a different kind of a fight, with resistance tougher than any the elite Iraqi unit has previously faced. The neighborhoods of eastern Mosul, which have seen the most intense fighting over the past several weeks, have suffered the most, with ISIL suicide units packing explosives into trucks hidden in local garages, then driving them into Golden Division units and detonating them. One senior Centcom officer told me that ISIL has detonated over 600 suicide car and truck bombs since the start of the offensive. “We knew the fight for Mosul would be tough,” this Centcom officer said, “but it’s been a lot tougher than anyone thought.”
ISIL units have fought tenaciously, and few of its volunteers have been willing to surrender — even when facing overwhelming odds. And the ISIL command has maneuvered its units deftly, pulling its best combat formations back into tighter defensive lines closer to the city center when the pressure against them becomes intense. The result is that the toughest battles for control of Mosul have yet to be waged. “I had a good chuckle when I heard Ash Carter [the U.S. secretary of defense] say last week that ISIL’ ‘days are numbered,’” this Centcom officer added. “In fact, its months are numbered. This whole idea that the battle will be over by the time that Trump is inaugurated is a fantasy. This is going to go on for a long time.”
One senior Pentagon officer with access to daily battle reports on the Mosul fight says the battle for the city has been so intense that the Golden Division’s veteran battalions “are suffering upwards of 50 percent casualties. If that rate stays constant,” he told me, “the division could become combat ineffective in a little over a month, and perhaps even sooner.”
The division’s senior commanders certainly know this, and they are trying to minimize the unit’s casualties, which is one of the reasons their Mosul offensive has slowed over the past two weeks. In addition, senior Iraqi officers have apparently decided that instead of continuing to suffer the effects of battle attrition, they will rely on artillery, tanks or precision munitions from Iraq’s small arsenal of F-16s (the first ones were delivered by the U.S. in July 2015) to reduce ISIL units holed up in barricaded buildings, regardless of the likely presence of civilians. In fact, civilian casualties have continued to mount in the city due to air and artillery attacks, despite the efforts of U.S. Joint Terminal Air Controllers who paint targets for incoming F-16s, with the result that some of Mosul’s heavily populated neighborhoods northwest of the Gogjali industrial district have been reduced to rubble.
On December 7, Iraqi officials responded to the large number of Golden Division casualties by accelerating the training of replacements and by ordering other Iraqi units, including federal police formations under the command of the Interior Ministry, to fight their way to the Mosul airport on the Golden Division’s left flank. But the units have been slow to respond, in part because their commanders fear suffering the same high casualty rate as their elite counterparts.
As crucially, Iraq’s other major units (including the 16th Infantry Division, in the north) have been fought to a standstill, which means that the Golden Division will continue to carry the load.
A part of the problem, one Pentagon intelligence officer notes, is that the Golden Division’s battlefield competence means that it is the unit of choice for the Iraqi government, which views the battle for Mosul as a political as well as a military test — and a way for Iraq’s leaders to show off their new army’s combat prowess. “The problem with being the best is that you get used,” the Centcom officer told me, “and the more you get used, the more casualties you take and the duller you become.”
* * *
Iraq’s Golden Division has a storied, and controversial, history. As one of three special brigades of Iraq’s elite Counter Terrorism Service, it acts under the direct command of Iraq’s prime minister. Established as a nonsectarian formation, the unit was first organized, equipped and trained by U.S. special forces units soon after Baghdad fell, with the express purpose of fighting the then-growing Iraqi insurgency. A select group of its best officers were brought to the U.S. for intensive training at the U.S. Army Ranger School, then redeployed to the division as combat commanders. From its earliest days, its independent chain of command was resented, however, with Iraqis viewing the division as a political tool in the hands of the Iraqi prime minister. Among Iraqis, it became known as “the dirty division.”
But the Golden Division’s tenacious fight against ISIL over the past two years has burnished its reputation, giving it a gloss of respectability unequaled by any other Iraqi unit. The division’s newfound stature has also been a source of pride at Centcom, whose intelligence officers cite it as an example of the Army’s training expertise and as a counterpoint to America’s anti-ISIL fight in Syria.
At the heart of that comparison is the animus harbored by Centcom officers over the CIA’s failure to train a Syrian military equivalent. “All of this talk about how the CIA has put moderate Syrians in the field is a crock,” a joint staff officer told me last week. “The CIA program is a flat-out failure. The units we’ve trained are fighting in Mosul, while the units the CIA has trained are nowhere to be found. It’s an embarrassment.”
More crucially, the division’s new stature has raised hopes at Centcom’s forward headquarters in Doha, Qatar, that the unit can keep the peace in Iraq once the fight for Mosul is finished. After Mosul, one Pentagon intelligence officer reports, the nation’s Kurds, Shias and Sunnis will pick up where they left off before ISIL appeared: in a violent, bloody struggle for political power. The Golden Division has the training and the experience to form a bulwark against sectarian military units. But it also needs to remain combat effective, and that, given Mosul’s bloody calculus, is hardly a certainty. As a result, senior 101st Airborne commanders have been trying to shift the burden for the Mosul fight to other Iraqi units, but without much success.
Centcom planners, I was told, had hoped that ISIL units embedded in Mosul would flee west along the highway leading to Syria, where they could be slaughtered by U.S. and coalition aircraft. But so far that hasn’t happened: While some fighters have fled, not only have the majority of ISIL main-force units remained in the city, the main road west has also been closed by the Iranian-supported Hashd al-Shaabi, the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Units (the PMU). In mid-November, Hashd al-Shaabi overran Tal Afar airport, near Iraq’s border crossing with Syria. For Centcom senior officers, that was good news (ISIL is now surrounded) and bad news — with no way out, ISIL units in Mosul will now fight the Golden Division to the last man.
An additional complicating factor for Centcom military planners is that a part of the 101st’s replacement unit, the 1st Infantry Division, has recently been subject to a controversial change in command, with Maj. Gen. Wayne Grigsby dismissed as the unit’s commander “due to loss of confidence in his ability to lead,” an Army spokesman announced in September. The Army has not announced why Grigsby was relieved, but one senior civilian Pentagon official told me that Grigsby’s mistake was in inviting retired Lt. Gen. Jerry Boykin to speak at a Fort Riley, Kansas, prayer breakfast in June. Boykin is known for his anti-Muslim sentiments, and for saying that Jews are responsible for the world’s problems. Grigsby rescinded the Boykin invitation, but apparently not in time to save his command position. “You can’t have a guy in charge of a unit in Iraq who is associated with someone who says that Muslims are the spawn of Satan,” the senior Pentagon civilian told me. “Wayne was a hell of a combat officer, but what the hell was he thinking?”
The result of all these factors is that senior U.S. military officers have accelerated their planning for “the day after” — for what happens after Mosul falls. Centcom commander Army Gen. Joseph Votel, picked to head up Centcom by President Barack Obama because of his special operations expertise, believes the outlook is dark, this same Pentagon intelligence officer told me, and likely to get darker, with the country heading inexorably toward a civil war. Votel’s worries have been heightened by military intelligence reports tracking increased Saudi arms shipments to Anbar’s Sunni tribes, in apparent preparation for the inevitable face-off against the Iranian-supported Shia PMUs.
“The White House always worried that arming the tribes would fuel a Shia-Sunni civil war,” this Centcom intelligence officer told me, “but the Saudis have no such compunctions. It’s a problem, a big problem, because arms are flooding into Anbar and have been for the last several months. Everyone is getting ready for the reckoning.”
Watching this from Centcom headquarters in Tampa, Florida, and from Centcom’s forward base in Doha, Votel has been communicating his worries to Washington, along with his own assessment — that once ISIL is chased out of Iraq, America’s best option will be to get out of the line of fire, as the Shia-dominated militias face off in a war against Anbar’s Sunni tribes. In that fight, the Golden Division, a symbol of the new nonsectarian Iraqi army, will not be able to intervene to stop the fight — let alone dictate its outcome — as it’s likely that by then it will have lost its best fighters in the streets of Mosul.
Mark Perry is the author of Talking To Terrorists. His new book, The Pentagon Wars, will be published by Basic Books next year.
Technology is transforming the world around us at a growing pace. It affects the way we live, the way we study, the way we trade, the way we communicate. And it can be disruptive. It puts into question long cherished assumptions, it makes communities more fragmented and fluid and – crucially – it can destroy jobs in the industries it challenges. Are we to conclude that the world would have been better off if we had artificially restricted the development and commercialization of trains, cars and electric devises? Obviously not. This lesson is still valid for tomorrow’s technological developments.
It’s around these pressing issues that experts from all over Europe gathered for the 7th Economic Ideas Forum. Organized by the Wilfried Martens Centre for European Studies, the official think tank of the EPP, the EIF’s aim is to act as a laboratory for policy-oriented ideas. This year’s edition has six main takeaways to pick our brains:
1. Keep Calm and No Basic Income
Today, the majority of jobs in Europe are still full time, permanent positions. But labor markets are changing as technological advances and flexible working options increasingly dominate the discussion. Basic income, many people say, offers a potential solution to the emerging realities of tomorrow’s labor market. But according to one speaker, a universal basic income will simply let big business off the hook in terms of providing corporate and social responsibility. In Europe, we should distinguish between being more educated and being more skilled.
2. Creative Bravery: Celebrating Failure, Changing Europe
One participant quoted Nobel Prize winner economist Wassily Leontief: ‘The role of humans as the most important factor of production is bound to diminish in the same way that the role of horses in agricultural production was first diminished and then eliminated by the introduction of tractors’. We need to move towards a system in which individuals and firms can innovate ‘without permission’ as regulations often distort or prevent the creative process. In Europe, the risk reward balance needs to be reset. Failure is an option, because out of failure comes innovations which change the world.
3. To Be Digitalized or Marginalized: That is the Question!
The European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) offers huge potential for the EU to close the digital infrastructure gap with other global economies. For this to happen, public money needs the support of private capital in order to tackle market failures. The right regulatory framework requires a light and flexible approach, allowing private enterprise to bring their strengths to the next-generation digital economy. In Europe, fierce competition is the best way to ensure lower prices and higher investments.
4. Conscious Uncoupling: Living Happily Even after Brexit
The success of EU integration has been constituted by the internal market and the free movement of goods, capitals, services, people. These principles constitute the basis of the market economy model. To build walls and limit freedom of movement now would be not just counterproductive but also impossible. Free movement of people and jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice are two key negotiation points. If the United Kingdom accepts these principles, an agreement may be possible. However, according to Alexander Stubb, former Prime Minister of Finland and speaker at the head-to-head session on Brexit, this seems to be an unlikely scenario.
5. ‘Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed’
Fragmentation must be overcome. Only through combining the strengths of member states can the EU hope to add value at an industrial scale. European industry is going through a fourth industrial revolution: digital transformation is changing how companies do business on a daily basis. European industries still need to challenge fragmented markets, fragmented standards and fragmented national regulations. In Europe, we need to think globally.
6. Can Cows Save Europe?
Agricultural policy has been at the heart of EU policy since the Treaty of Rome. Research just doesn’t happen in factories and labs; it happens every day in millions of farms throughout the EU. In a time of huge global population change, land scarcity and increased environmental awareness, research and innovation in agriculture matters more than ever. For the EU, this means not just ensuring European farmers have the best knowledge transfer gained from private sector companies, but also helping farmers in emerging countries learn from our expertise. In Europe, agriculture must remain one of the most innovative and research intensive sectors in our economy.
Philip Hammond, Britain’s chancellor, said Friday that relying on World Trade Organization membership would not be a good option for the U.K. after Brexit.
“In my view, the WTO option would not be the most favored outcome,” Hammond told reporters at an event in South Korea, according to Reuters.
“I hope that we would be able to agree with our European partners tariff-free access but on a reciprocal basis,” he added.
Under a WTO option, U.K. exports to the EU would face a significant hike in tariffs. Auto manufacturers, for example, would have to pay a 10 percent tariff on cars produced in Britain and exported for sale in the EU.
Without access to tools and agencies such as the European arrest warrant, Europol and Eurojust or equivalent replacements, Britain’s ability to fight crime and keep citizens safe will be compromised after it leaves the EU, the U.K.’s House of Lords said in a report published Friday.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government must be able to secure more than the operational agreements with Europol other non-EU countries have negotiated, the House of Lords EU Home Affairs Sub-Committee said in the report.
“Access to EU law enforcement databases and data-sharing platforms is integral to day-to-day policing,” stated the report, which analyzed the tools that underpin security and police co-operation between Britain and the bloc. “Were the U.K. to lose access to them upon leaving the EU, information that can currently be sourced in seconds or hours could take days or week to retrieve, delivering an abrupt shock to U.K. policing and posing a risk to the safety of the public.”
The sub-committee suggested the U.K. could pursue an immediate bilateral extradition agreement that mirrors the European arrest warrant (EAW) with the EU.
“An operations gap between the EAW ceasing to apply and a suitable replacement coming into force would pose an unacceptable risk,” according to the report.
Usha Prashar, the sub-committee chairman, said in a statement: “Protecting the lives of its citizens is the first duty of government and should be the overriding consideration during Brexit negotiations. Without access to these vital EU tools or credible substitutes, we would be seriously harming the capability of our law enforcement agencies to fight crime and keep the public safe.”
PARIS — Emmanuel Macron is emerging as the third man of the French presidential campaign — the only one who can credibly entertain hopes of beating far-right leader Marine Le Pen to a run-off next year against mainstream conservative candidate François Fillon.
Polls are looking good, new friends are suddenly materializing from both Left and Right and enthusiastic crowds flock to his rallies.
But the 38-year old former economy minister in president François Hollande’s government, who is campaigning as a maverick, ridiculing traditional parties for their wayward ideas, is still far from his double goal — making it past the first round and winning the presidency.
Macron’s political space on the center-left suddenly broadened after Fillon’s unexpected victory in the Républicains primary election, and Socialist president Hollande’s subsequent decision not to seek a second term in 2017.
For one thing, Fillon’s economic program has been pummeled by his adversaries as much too hard-right for French tastes — notably on health care and public sector job cuts. Furthermore, the man who hoped to be the ruling Socialists’ “natural candidate” after Hollande’s retreat — former Prime Minister Manuel Valls — isn’t even certain to win his party’s primary. He faces no less than three other former Hollande ministers eager to paint him as an authoritarian right-wing free-marketeer who has lost touch with the traditional Left’s core values.
Meanwhile, Macron is striving and pushing. In a demonstration of force that stunned his rivals, he addressed 12,000 enthusiastic partisans last weekend in one of the largest arenas in Paris. Presidential candidates are usually happy when they can convince 2,000 sympathizers to come and hear them.
Fillon’s platform allows Macron to remind forgetful voters that he hails from the Left: He has attacked Fillon, a self-confessed admirer of Margaret Thatcher, for putting forward “retrograde” remedies to France’s problems and of speaking about public servants in “inhumane and degrading” terms.
He has also condemned the conservative frontrunner’s program as atavistic, especially Fillon’s early suggestion to let private insurance cover non-serious medical conditions.
Fillon wants to go back to “the U.K.’s economic reforms from the 1980s and France’s social situation” of the early 1970s, he has said.
The conservative candidate has since toned down his platform — his original heath care reform proposal disappeared overnight from his website — but his “tough Right” image has stuck, and will keep giving his adversaries fodder for some time.
So far, polls show Macron running a distant third behind Fillon and Le Pen in next year’s general election.
The unknowns, besides the identity of the official Socialist Party pick, include whether or not perennial centrist candidate François Bayrou will run for president for the fourth time – and possibly take votes away from Macron.
According to a monthly survey by Cevipof, a SciencesPo political research center, Fillon would come out ahead in the presidential election’s first round in all configurations, wining between 26 and 29 percent of the vote.
Le Pen would come in second, with 24 to 25 percent.
Macron would get between 13 and 18 percent of the votes. A month ago, he polled at around 10 percent in the same survey.
His best hope to get within reachable distance of Le Pen would be for Bayrou not to run and the Socialists to choose Valls’ main adversary Arnaud Montebourg, another former economy minister who is campaigning on a protectionist, anti-German platform. At 18 percent to Le Pen’s 25 percent, it would then be well within the realm of the possible for Macron to reach the second round.
That, at least, is the reasoning of the Macronistas, who feel powered up by the continuous rise of their champion in the polls.
There are, of course, a few snags.
The main one is that Macron’s margin of progression is among the Fillon voters, not Le Pen supporters. If he succeeds in convincing a chunk of the center-right electorate that the mainstream conservative candidate is, as he paints him, a “reactionary,” some of those voters may have second thoughts about Fillon.
Macron has very few supporters either from the far-left or the far-right, the Cevipof survey noted. On the other hand, he is supported by a few conservative politicians such as Jean Arthuis, a finance minister in the 1990s during the presidency of Jacques Chirac.
And Dominique de Villepin, Chirac’s former prime minister and foreign minister, said this week that Macron had the possibility to “disrupt both Le Pen and Fillon” in next year’s election, provided he kept the same momentum.
“He is a political start-up. And as all start-ups, he needs to grow,” Villepin added.
Macron’s other problem is that once the Socialist Party has chosen its candidate, it will attack Macron as much as — if not more than — other presidential hopefuls, in the hope of luring voters back into the traditional Left’s fold.
For now, the six or seven candidates competing in the primary (the official list will be known on Saturday) are too busy fighting each other, but that will change at the end of January when the Socialist Party will try to unite behind its torch bearer.
A Macron associate said the campaign didn’t fear an onslaught of attacks after the Socialist primary. “Ironically the one we fear less [Montebourg] is the one who would attack most. But if it’s Valls, what can he say? He has been on Macron’s right on many issues, such as security, in the last two years,” said the aide.
In the meantime, Valls and other Socialist Party bigwigs keep urging Macron to take part in their party’s primary where, the former prime minister said, “the real debate should take place.”
Macron, of course, has seen the trap. This week, he deemed both Valls’ suggestion, and interviewers’ questions about it, a “ridiculous masquerade.”
“Why would he even consider [running in the primary]?” said a surprisingly understanding Socialist Party apparatchik. “He doesn’t want to look like he’s just another one of them.”
Another test for Macron will come when he articulates in full his platform, which he has so far only partly unveiled. Save for the general idea of “putting work at the center” and eradicating unemployment, he hasn’t been talkative about the ways he wants to achieve this.
In recent days, to outline his differences with Fillon, he has suggested doing away with taxes levied on employees’ payroll to finance the health care system and pensions, in order to boost take-home pay for lower income households. He would finance that by increasing another tax with a much larger base, making the well-to-do bear much of the burden.
On other matters he has stuck to the principle he outlined when he launched his presidency on a platform limited to “10 or 12 general ideas.” But it’s unlikely the conjoined forces of his adversaries on the Left and the Right will let him practice his vague style of campaigning for much longer.
Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras reached out to EU leaders on the sidelines of the European summit to lift the suspension of the country’s debt relief measures — a move decided by Greece’s creditors earlier this week after Athens approved new public spending that included €617 million in a one-off bonus to low-income pensioners. 
“Greece, despite its difficulties, has delivered its commitments,” Tspiras told reporters after the summit, arguing the spending is a “one-shot measure” that will not threaten the economic and fiscal targets the government needs to fulfill.
The European Stability Mechanism (ESM), which manages the Greek bailout, said in a statement ahead of the meeting that the Greek spending raises “significant concerns on both process and substance.” In regard to the bailout plan, however, “they are not expected to change significantly the projected fiscal outcomes.”
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble was critical Wednesday, saying unilateral measures should not be taken “without notice.” Tspiras said Schäuble’s reaction “is not unexpected” as the Germans are known to be the “most severe” when it comes to Greek implementation of all of its reforms.
Tspiras said he had met Thursday with French President François Hollande, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and Pierre Moscovici, the commissioner for economic and financial affairs, to persuade EU institutions to accept this proposal. Ahead of the meeting, Hollande said EU institutions should treat the Greek government with dignity.
“Of course, the method of the Greeks to pass such reform should have been better coordinated” with its creditors, said one European diplomat. “But if the budgetary impact is limited, there is no problem.”
Another source said it was mostly Germany that pushed to block ESM approval of the spending.
Athens and its creditors are currently finalizing a review of the program for potential new debt-relief measures for the country.
Tspiras will meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel Friday in Berlin. However, she has indicated she will not negotiate on Greek debt relief.
Even for seasoned politicians, EU summits can be a hurdle race, with their diplomatic knots, jam-packed agendas and scarcity of time.
For Paolo Gentiloni, who has served as Italy’s prime minister for less than a week, that was doubly true on Thursday.
A former foreign minister with a long political career and a soft-spoken approach, Gentiloni didn’t clear a key hurdle at the Brussels summit. The 62-year-old Roman aristocrat, who replaced Matteo Renzi after he lost a key constitutional referendum and resigned, was forced by Germany to accept a timetable on migration that was not what Italy wanted.
The Council conclusion, the legally binding text approved at the end of any summit, state that “the Council is invited to continue the process with the aim of achieving consensus on the EU’s asylum reform during the incoming” Malta presidency.
In other words: The EU aims to reach a consensus on an asylum reform in only six months.
The Italians, who this year expect to receive a record 200,000 migrants and refugees, fear that, during a period of political uncertainty in Italy, such a short time will not give Rome enough time to build the right alliances to achieve a favorable result.
“The discussion still requires a lot of time,” said one Italian diplomat Wednesday, stressing that Rome was trying to resist Berlin’s attempts to shorten the discussion.
The sticky issue is a proposal by Slovakia (which holds the rotating presidency) that countries that don’t want to take in refugees can be offered financial and logistical alternatives.
EU leaders still have to decide whether it will be mandatory to take in at least some refugees – something favored by the Italians and Greeks who fear that they will otherwise get stuck with all the arrivals. Meanwhile, Central European countries such as Poland and Hungary only want voluntary schemes.
The second problem is that “to reach a consensus” means a need for unanimity, a point pushed by Berlin, wanting to avoid further divisions on a sensitive subject. Italians, however, had hoped for a voting system that would allow for a qualified majority.
Gentiloni tried to put a good face on the outcome “The wording is absolutely fine,” he told reporters at the summit, adding there was a long discussion on the meaning of “we aim at,” saying it meant it was “not a deadline.”
Yet with Berlin putting strong pressure on completion of a deal in time for the German election in September, and the prospect of elections in Italy as early as June, this was not an ideal solution for Italian diplomats.
Still, in his first high-level meeting, Gentiloni made clear that bickering with Germany could come to an end. During the referendum campaign, Renzi was seen to pick fights with the EU for homecourt advantage. Though Renzi picked Gentiloni to succeed him, Gentiloni clearly wanted to signal that he is his own man. While there are differences on the economy, he said, “I have never shared the idea that Germany must be an adversary.”
President-elect Donald Trump plans to nominate David Friedman, an Orthodox Jewish lawyer with highly conservative views on Israel, as the next U.S. ambassador to the tiny Jewish-majority state.
Friedman helped advise Trump during the campaign and has assisted him in bankruptcy proceedings in the past. He is considered a key force behind the incoming president’s relatively hard-line pro-Israel positions, including supporting moving the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
“The bond between Israel and the United States runs deep, and I will ensure there is no daylight between us when I’m President,” Trump said in a statement Thursday evening. “As the United States’ ambassador to Israel, David Friedman will maintain the special relationship between our two countries. He has been a long-time friend and trusted adviser to me.”
Trump added: “His strong relationships in Israel will form the foundation of his diplomatic mission and be a tremendous asset to our country as we strengthen the ties with our allies and strive for peace in the Middle East. Nothing is more critical than protecting the security of our citizens at home and abroad.”
The Trump transition statement notes that Friedman is a founding partner of Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP, and that he played a leading role in many complex restructuring deals. It also affirmed Trump’s hope to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem, a decision that could anger many in the Arab world because of disputes over the city’s status between the Israelis and Palestinians.
“I intend to work tirelessly to strengthen the unbreakable bond between our two countries and advance the cause of peace within the region, and look forward to doing this from the U.S. Embassy in Israel’s eternal capital, Jerusalem,” Friedman said in the statement.
Trump’s choice of Friedman immediately drew criticism from liberal Jewish activists.
“As someone who has been a leading American friend of the settlement movement, who lacks any diplomatic or policy credentials and who has attacked liberal Jews who support two states as ‘worse than kapos’, Friedman should be beyond the pale for senators considering who should represent the United States in Israel,” Jeremy Ben-Ami, president of the left-leaning Jewish advocacy group J Street said in a statement.
The U.S. ambassador to Israel holds one of the most sensitive positions in American foreign policy, tasked with dealing with a critical ally in one of the most volatile regions of the world.
Under the Obama administration, tensions spiked between the U.S. and Israel, especially over Obama’s decision to pursue a nuclear agreement with Iran, a deal that Trump has blasted.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vociferously criticized the Iran deal and repeatedly clashed with Obama on other subjects as well, including Israeli settlement construction in land claimed by the Palestinians for a future state.
After Trump won the Nov. 8 presidential election, Netanyahu issued very positive messages through videos and other means, calling the Manhattan real estate mogul “a true friend of Israel.”
Trump’s Israel advisers appear to have moved him to adopt hard-right positions regarding the country, including removing language calling for a two-state solution in the Republican Party platform. They also have said Trump should not pressure Israel to make peace with the Palestinians.
Their efforts helped ease the concern of some segments of America’s Jewish community, especially after Trump made some missteps including promising to be “neutral” on the Israeli-Palestinian issue to shrugging off the anti-Semitism rampant among many of his supporters online.
EU leaders attempted to draw a line under an excruciatingly tough year at Thursday’s summit by extending economic sanctions on Russia, clearing the path for a trade deal with Ukraine and agreeing to move towards greater military cooperation.
Such incremental advances were overshadowed, however, by their powerlessness to halt the Syrian bloodshed, inability to agree on common rules for asylum-seekers and squabbling over the European Parliament’s role in Brexit negotiations. Even the eurozone crisis made a brief comeback in a row over Athens’ plans to give struggling Greek pensioners a Christmas bonus.
The agenda ran over by more than three hours, defeating European Council President Donald Tusk’s plans for a short, efficient one-day summit. A dinner debate on Brexit among 27 EU leaders — minus U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May — was downgraded to a 20-minute chat.
After asking the other leaders to consider a reciprocal post-Brexit deal on EU migrants living in the U.K. and vice versa, May ducked out, saying “I think I have to go now,” according to one witness.
Chagrined EU leaders remarked on the string of ill-fated referendums that left more than a few of them in a pickle — not just Brexit, but also a Danish referendum to leave Europol, a Dutch referendum opposing the Ukraine trade pact, a Hungarian referendum to reject the EU’s migrant quota policy and an Italian referendum on constitutional changes.
“This was a day when people were venting their frustration with referenda,” said one senior EU official.
But it was Europe’s impotence to have any impact on the Syrian crisis that caused its leaders to wonder if the grandiloquent, and much-wrangled-over “conclusions” from such summits have any meaning at all.
In the conclusions of their last summit in October, which came just after heaving bombing of rebel positions in Aleppo, the leaders declared: “The EU is considering all available options, should the current atrocities continue.” This summit came against the backdrop of the fall of Aleppo to Syrian government forces, making it plain that the EU has few options – if any.
Tusk, at a closing news conference, was bluntly sober about the limitations.
“To be clear, faced with the brutality of the Syrian regime and its supporters, notably Russia and Iran, we are not as effective as we would like to be,” Tusk said, adding that Europe was “not indifferent” and would keep up the diplomatic pressure for humanitarian relief.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed particular dismay, saying: “This part of the discussion was very depressing because we’ve all seen something that shames us and that we would really like to be able to do more about.” Earlier EU leaders met the council leader of eastern Aleppo, Brita Hagi Hasan, on the sidelines of the summit in a symbolic gesture of solidarity.
“We’re not going to go to war with Russia,” a senior aide to Tusk said. “In the context, our options are quite limited.”
EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini rejected any suggestion of imposing new sanctions on Russia for its military support for the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
“This is not been the approach the Council has chosen in its last session,” Mogherini said. “We are working in these hours, as I said, trying to use our influence and our leverage, especially with Iran, in these moments, and trying to support the work of the United Nations to try and focus on the protection of civilians.”
Instead, European leaders formalized their decision taken at the last summit in October to extend existing sanctions on Russia for the annexation of Crimea and its military intervention in eastern Ukraine.
With Donald Trump soon to be inaugurated in the White House, this may be the last time Russian sanctions get rolled over without a struggle. Trump’s pick of Exxon Mobile CEO Rex Tillerson for U.S. secretary of state will raise questions about the sanctions, which several EU countries have previously pushed to have lifted.
Even the advance toward the deal with Ukraine, a clear success on Thursday, could prove short-lived. The EU’s free trade agreement with Ukraine, at the heart of the turmoil that led to the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych in 2014, had been put at risk by the Dutch vote.
EU leaders said they had addressed the concerns of Dutch voters, including a statement that the trade pact and accompanying political association agreement would not automatically put Ukraine on a path to EU membership.
With such slow progress during the summit that the “working lunch” didn’t end until 6.21 p.m., perhaps the most serious setback was the bickering over the European Parliament’s role in formal Brexit negotiations, which are expected to begin in April. MEPs, feeling sidelined, threatened to open their own direct negotiations with the U.K. until it was agreed that there would be some room for consultation with Parliament.
Meanwhile, Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras sought to build support at the summit for his decision to spent €617 million in one-off benefits for poorer pensioners, including a Christmas bonus. Public support for Tsipras and his government has fallen as it has implemented the tough austerity program required as a condition of the EU rescue program.
Tsipras’ pension bonus plans infuriated officials at the European Stability Mechanism, which is administering the rescue program and said it would suspend Greek’s short-term debt relief as punishment. French President François Hollande suggested a compromise, insisting Greece should be “treated with dignity” and was entitled to some “sovereign decisions,” according to one EU diplomat.
The leaders also heard from NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg who secured their support for greater military cooperation, including between the EU and NATO.
Harry Cooper, Maïa de la Baume, Florian Eder, Tom McTague, Paul Taylor and Ryan Heath contributed to this article. 
Digital Vice President Andrus Ansip is poised to take over Commissioner Günther Oettinger’s digital workload in January, if only temporarily, putting him in a position to unveil the last pieces of Europe’s digital single market proposal.
The European Commission is set to take a position on January 11 on cross-border data flows, which could speed business and economic growth. Under pressure from France and Germany, however, the proposal has been watered down from a regulation, angering 16 heads of state who wrote this week for a stronger position.
“The sense of urgency is everywhere,” Ansip said in an interview Thursday. “I agree that with some issues it takes a longer time to find solutions.”
While Ansip’s additional duties may be temporary, he could find himself more directly involved in divisive debates over everything from copyright to telecoms rules. Echoing Oettinger, he loudly defended new rights for publishers that would give media companies more power over how their content is published online. 
“I’m not talking about some dirty interests — these are coming from different situations … with French publishers, it’s the same story. It doesn’t matter which countries they are coming from,” he said.
Tapping Ansip awaits Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s final nod. As digital VP Ansip is the obvious choice to step in now, but the question is whether he’ll keep the job long term.
A decision on whether Ansip will be tapped even temporarily could be confirmed as soon as next week, senior Commission sources said.
“If the proposal is made by the president, I will accept,” Ansip said, but added, “I would like to continue in this job and keep obligations I have now as a coordinator in a concrete political cluster.”
Juncker offered Oettinger the role of vice president for budget and human resources after Kristalina Georgieva leaves the position in December.
Carlos Moedas, the commissioner for research, science and innovation, was an early candidate to replace Oettinger. Juncker’s final decision may depend on Bulgaria’s choice to replace Georgieva. Moedas was offered the position in November but rebuffed it — he was reluctant to give up his current portfolio handling research and innovation.
Sources said Oettinger’s future promotion also remains uncertain. He will have a parliamentary hearing January 9 where he is likely to face harsh questions about his trip to Hungary on a German lobbyist’s plane, as well as recent controversial comments about a Chinese delegation.
Regardless, Ansip expects Oettinger will stay involved in connected cars.
“I’m sure Günther will not change his approach to connected cars, even if he has another portfolio,” Ansip said. “His belief in it will last forever.”
European officials are working on a three-step model to smooth Britain’s exit from the European Union, including arrangements for a time-limited transition deal.
The EU’s chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier has won broad agreement from the other 27 countries, plus MEPs, for his three-phase divorce plan, according to senior diplomats and officials. It would consist of withdrawal, transition and then a “new relationship.”
The transition phase would be subject to a number of “sunset clauses” to ensure that Britain doesn’t retain the benefits of membership indefinitely, while the shape of the new relationship would be sketched out by Theresa May in her Article 50 divorce letter due by the end of March.
In a speech to EU leaders over lunch at a summit in Brussels on Thursday, the outgoing president of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, voiced his support: “The three-phase model that the Commission has chosen to base its work on is indeed the right one.”
This format would provide clarity and allow “a rapid conclusion of the withdrawal agreement,” he said. In a boost for U.K. ministers pushing for a transition deal — including Philip Hammond, the chancellor of the exchequer — Schulz told EU leaders the three-stage exit would permit “an orderly, and gradual move towards the new relationship.”
“There are too many lives on the line for an erratic, quick and total separation,” said Schulz, who later told reporters: “This is an emotional affair but we should not be led by emotions.”
When asked by POLITICO about his comments, Schulz said they should not be translated as implicit support for a transitional deal, and stuck to his habitual line that there would be “no pre-negotiation before notification [via Article 50].”
Diplomats and officials said there was little concern in Brussels at the prospect of a transition period. They cited U.K. Brexit Secretary David Davis’ softer stance on a transition deal — which he was previously believed to oppose — and his refusal to rule out Britain continuing payments into the EU’s budget in return for access to the single market.
However, major stumbling blocks remain in the way of any transition deal, including the “Brexit bill” to cover the U.K.’s potential future contributions to the EU budget for any market access it might secure in the negotiations, and its adherence to EU law until full separation.
One senior EU diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, slammed London’s failure to prepare for a long and messy divorce, saying Britain does not have “even the beginning of an understanding of the price, in political terms, to be paid for this thing [the transition].”
“What is the transition? Is it the status quo? In 2019 , the British prime minister will be able to say the U.K. is out of the European Union, but there will be no change for five years. Is that a tenable position?” asked the diplomat.
The financial demands from Brussels will inevitably cause aggravation, said the diplomat, who represents a traditional U.K. ally: “Just wait until a bill of £60 billion drops into the Treasury.”
However, there is also an acceptance that the impending departure of the U.K. — a major net contributor to the EU budget — is already causing problems for Brussels.
According to the senior diplomat, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s powerful chief of staff Martin Selmayr is pushing for talks on how to fill the hole left in the EU budget by Britain’s departure to begin before May triggers Article 50.
Selmayr faces resistance, however, from commissioners who argue that it’s pointless to ready financial measures before knowing how much Britain is prepared to continue paying the EU.
The internal row helps to explain why U.K. ministers, including Davis, refuse so far to rule out continuing to pay into the EU budget even though it was a major issue in the referendum.
The prospect of an interim deal intensified on Thursday after it emerged that Britain’s top diplomat in Brussels, Ivan Rogers, had privately told the government that the EU consensus was that a deal might take 10 years to finalize — and could still fail.
According to the BBC, Rogers warned ministers that the view among the EU 27 was that a free trade agreement with the U.K. would not be ready until the mid 2020s.
Former cabinet secretary Gus O’Donnell — the most senior civil servant under Tony Blair — told the BBC that negotiating a final deal would take “at least five years.”
“We certainly won’t have come to any final arrangements in two years’ time,” he told BBC Radio 4’s The Westminster Hour. “We might well get to a point where we can symbolically leave but all sorts of details will still remain to be sorted out.”
Barnier, the EU negotiator, has refused to rule out a transition deal, and pointedly warned that he had no idea if it was possible without knowing what Britain wanted from a final deal.
“As long as we don’t know what […] the U.K. is ready to ask and accept for this new partnership, it is difficult to talk about a period of transition,” Barnier said earlier this month. “The transitional period […] has a meaning only if it makes the path easier to prepare the way for a future relation. We need to know the dimensions, the content of this new relationship, in order to imagine how to prepare it.”
The chief prosecutor in the trial of Christine Lagarde argued Thursday against convicting the International Monetary Fund chief over “negligence” arising from France’s payout to a business magnate in 2008.
“The hearings have not backed up a very weak charge,” Jean-Claude Marin told the court, AFP reported.
The prosecutor’s office had previously advised against bringing the case to court, but was overruled by France’s highest court.
The Cour de Cassation found in July that Lagarde should face trial over her role in businessman Bernard Tapie receiving €403 million in public funds in 2008, when Lagarde was France’s economy and finance minister.
Lagarde had opted for an arbitration procedure to resolve the dispute after Tapie sued the now defunct French bank Crédit Lyonnais, which was part state-owned.
A ruling in the case is expected Monday, Reuters reported.
The EU’s united front on Brexit gave way to bitter in-fighting Thursday as senior MEPs threatened to negotiate directly with the U.K. and push for the “hardest possible Brexit” if they are not given a more prominent role in negotiations.
The feud over the Parliament’s role in the talks, which are set to begin in less than four months, burst into public view as EU leaders met for a summit in Brussels. Ahead of the discussion, officials scrambled to redraft language on the negotiating process, which EU leaders — minus Britain’s Theresa May — were set to discuss over dinner Thursday.
Since Britain’s vote in June to leave the bloc, EU leaders have made a concerted, disciplined effort to put up a united front, insisting there would be no negotiations before the U.K. formally triggers negotiations by invoking Article 50 of the EU Treaty, and they would never let the U.K. “cherry-pick” the best aspects of EU membership.
While the formal negotiating on behalf of the EU will be led by the European Commission’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, diplomats have spent weeks hammering out a detailed set of “guidelines.” The latest draft proposed, to be discussed by leaders Thursday evening, appears to sideline the Parliament, prompting furious reactions from senior MEPs.
“If we are not adequately involved, we may not be able to give our consent [to the final deal],” outgoing European Parliament President Martin Schulz told EU leaders, referring to the rules laid out in Article 50. “And in this situation, the U.K. would face the hardest Brexit possible.”
“It is absolutely unacceptable for us,” Schulz told reporters at the summit.
In an early version of the guidelines obtained by POLITICO, Parliament representatives would participate in key preparatory meetings ahead of Council meetings, which would in turn define the EU27’s negotiating positions.
But in an updated version on the table on Thursday, diplomats tried to limit the role of the Parliament representatives to being present at “an exchange of views” before each meeting.
Schulz was optimistic that the guidelines would change a third time after heads of state had discussed them, overruling the diplomats’ earlier attempts to cut the Parliament out.
“I heard that the sherpa formula will be altered today and that the European Parliament representative will be present in the Council,” Schulz told reporters. “Anything else would be unreasonable.”
Earlier in the week, Guy Verhofstadt, the Parliament’s chief Brexit negotiator, had threatened to go direct to U.K. authorities if Parliament wasn’t at the table with the EU27’s negotiators.
“Would you want us to open separate negotiations with the British authorities?” Verhofstadt said to MEPs in Strasbourg. “If this is what heads of state want, we are going to do parallel negotiations. I don’t want it, but the Council apparently wants it.”
Schulz and Verhofstadt have found an unlikely ally in the form of Theresa May, who met the latter not long after she arrived in Brussels for the summit. Verhofstadt and May agreed to “intensify the working relationship between the Parliament and the U.K.,” the former Belgian prime minister told POLITICO.
Even the British prime minister’s man in the European Parliament, the pro-Brexit leader of the European Conservatives and Reformists group Syed Kamall, agreed the Parliament must be involved.
“What we don’t want is to get to the end of the negotiation process and the Parliament turns around in a pique and says ‘You haven’t involved us and we’re going to reject it,’” said Kamall. “It’s quite right that it has a role and is recognized. It can’t be ignored.”
PARIS — Former French Prime Minister Manuel Valls — who developed a reputation for steamrolling rebellious backbenchers — has been reborn as a fan of parliamentary debate.
Ten days after stepping down to run in a primary to choose the Left’s presidential candidate, Valls on Thursday announced his intention to abolish an executive decree known in France as the “49-3,” after the number of the article in the Constitution, if he wins.
It was a jarring about-face for a man who used the 49-3 no fewer than six times during his two-year term as prime minister, notably to pass a controversial reform of labor rules seen as a betrayal of left-wing principles by much of Valls’ Socialist Party.
By turning against an executive tool he once favored, Valls is extending an olive branch to left-wing voters who never forgave him for crushing dissent in Socialist ranks — and showing his determination to win a presidential nomination.
“I know perfectly well the perverse effects of the 49-3,” Valls told France Inter radio. “In the society of participation in which we now live, its use appears to be out of date and brutal. I will propose, outside of budgetary laws … to abolish it, purely and simply.”
Polls show Valls winning the primary, to be held over two rounds on January 22 and 29. But the ex-prime minister must still rally support from Socialist MPs, party bigwigs and local officials in order to legitimize his bid.
Indeed, he will have to establish himself as the most serious contender against no fewer than three former ministers: Arnaud Montebourg, a hard-left former industry and economy minister; Benoît Hamon, a former education minister who is equally left-wing; and, since Sunday, Vincent Peillon, a former education minister.
Polls have yet to measure potential support for Peillon, who has the backing of anti-Valls leftists including Lille mayor Martine Aubry and Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo.
But his arrival prompted Valls to ramp up his campaigning — and make his headline-grabbing announcement.
“We would have to move quickly with this reform,” he said, mentioning the fall of 2017 as a possible date.
Twitter users were quick to mock Valls’ change of heart.
“Valls talking about the 49-3 sounds like me talking about alcohol the day after a major binge,” tweeted Jean Moundir.
“I suppose Valls would use the 49-3 to pass the ban on the 49-3,” tweeted MissDeVilles.


The mocking echoes reactions to Valls’ announcement on December 5 that he would be a candidate in the left-wing primary.
Resented by much of the Left for what is seen as an authoritarian style of leadership, Valls faces a struggle to gather support from heavyweight Socialists seen as crucial to legitimizing his bid.
Now Valls will also have to contend with Peillon, a former minister for higher education who was described by the right-leaning Le Figaro newspaper as an “anti-Valls missile.”
Peillon, who described himself as being in the “central axis” of the Socialist Party — and therefore to the left of Valls — will represent a softer side of the Socialist Party and try to paint Valls as a scorched-earth reformer out of step with voters.
Valls could yet beat Peillon, who has devoted himself to novel writing since he left government two years ago and said he no longer felt any desire to participate in Socialist Party affairs. But even if Valls wins the primary, he will have to contend with two rivals splitting the left-wing vote ahead of race’s first round: former Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron, and hard-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
According to a December 7 poll by BVA, both Mélenchon and Macron would beat Valls in the first round, both with 14 percent support versus 13 percent for the former prime minister. Even if Macron dropped out, and another centrist potential candidate, François Bayrou, decided not to run, Valls would get only 21 percent, the poll showed — still not enough to beat either François Fillon, the conservative frontrunner, or far-right chief Marine Le Pen.
Someone who is enjoying a honeymoon in the polls is President François Hollande, who announced on December 1 that he would not run for re-election. His approval rating is up by 13 percentage points, to 29 percent, since he dropped out, BVA said.
It’s been a cringe-inducing week for French presidential contender François Fillon, who has run out of ways to quell criticism from all sides over his plan to cut France’s beloved public health insurance.
He’d proposed dramatic reform for an overstretched health care system but has retreated bit by bit and gone as far as deleting the most polarizing part from his campaign website because it rattled voters a tad too much. The proposal and the backpedaling have fanned fears in his own party that he might lose his so far comfortable lead over far-right candidate Marine Le Pen.
Fillon’s campaign spokesman Jérôme Chartier explained Friday that the proposal would be reworked after a conference on the topic next month.
“He is putting it back up for debate,” Chartier said on Europe 1 radio. “One thing that got in the way is that we started to focus on details rather than on the most important … that social security is in deficit,” he added.
The one winner of the debacle: Health care turned into a hot-button political issue. For weeks, pollsters had been pointing out that voters ranked health among their top concerns and that they wanted candidates to give it more airtime. They got their way — and assurances that their system is here to stay.
How did Fillon wind up botching the rollout of his radical health care proposal? Let us count the ways:
His tough proposals earned him the nickname “Surgeon Fillon.” Campaigning for the center-right primary, Fillon said he would shut down some hospitals, scrap the 35-hour workweek and overhaul public spending on health care to cut the system’s €110 billion debt. He wanted public health insurance to be restricted to severe and chronic diseases, while private insurers should cover small ailments like colds and “comfort medicines.” In the TV debate opposing him to Alain Juppé, he said the exact breakdown had yet to be defined, but private insurers should cover “small risks.” 
After Fillon’s large primary win late November, Socialist Health Minister Marisol Touraine was quick to call his proposed health care reform a “step backward on French values” that would hit parents and elderly people the hardest. The Mutualité Française, a federation of mutual insurance funds, estimated his plan would cost an extra €1,200 a year for a couple with two kids.
On public television, Fillon sought to reassure the French, pledging that the lower and middle classes would be reimbursed just as well as today, while those better off would be asked to chip in “a little more.” He did not elaborate. Day after day, journalists pressed him on the topic. When asked whether common colds would be covered by state insurance, his campaign spokesman sparked a furor.
“It depends what kind of cold,” Jerôme Chartier said Monday on France Inter.
A recent survey by pollster Odoxa showed nine in 10 respondents opposed cutting public spending on health. Le Pen said Fillon’s program for “privatization” of health care made her nauseous: “I hope it will pass quickly because I’m told digestive troubles are among the ‘small ailments’ that would no longer be covered,” she told party supporters. Her National Front party has also blasted Fillon’s close ties to the former boss of Axa, France’s biggest insurer, and accused him of playing into the hands of the insurance lobby.
Even bigwigs in Fillon’s own Les Républicains party voiced concern that his health pitch could be a deal breaker for the broader electorate.
“It’s really the trick with the primaries – you win the primary on the right, but to clinch the presidency you need to win over the center,” ex-Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, a former Juppé supporter, told Europe 1 radio.
In an op-ed in Tuesday’s Le Figaro, Fillon said he had no intention to cut reimbursements and privatize public health insurance. “It will continue to cover treatments like today, and will even better reimburse services that now are largely paid out-of-pocket, such as optical and dental care,” he wrote. He said he simply wanted to use a mix of public and private insurance to improve health care coverage overall.
The salvo of criticism didn’t stop. Touraine called the plan “absolutely foggy” and worrisome. “Either it’s all voluntarily vague, to conceal the real plan which is indeed to privatize social security,” National Front Vice President Florian Philippot said on TV channel LCI, “Or he’s indeed backpedaling, meaning that if Fillon were elected president, we’d be condemned to five years of immobility.”
“Never did I want to, or would I want to, ‘privatize health insurance,’ ” Fillon said while visiting a hospital on Wednesday. “No, I do not want to draw a distinction between major and minor health risks.” He promised he would hold more meetings with lawmakers and health care workers to clarify his proposals.
By mid-week, Fillon’s most controversial proposal had been deleted from his campaign website. “To redefine the respective roles of public and private insurance, by focusing public health insurance notably on serious or long-term diseases … and complementary insurance on the rest,” it read.
Awkwardly for him, many had saved the PDF.
The Oxford English Dictionary, the self-professed definitive record of the English language, added the word “Brexit” to its annals in its December quarterly update, released Thursday.
Defined as “the (proposed) withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, and the political process associated with it,” the word Brexit was added five years after it was first coined, a feat the OED called “highly unusual” in a note that accompanied the update.
The speed with which the term became widely used and recognized was “impressive,” the OED said, and was “fueled by the fact it filled an empty space in our language, and the growing importance of the phenomenon it described.”
Other words added to the OED in the December update include YouTuber (a frequent user of the video-sharing website YouTube, especially someone who produces and appears in videos on the site), glam-ma (a glamorous grandmother) and upstander (a person who speaks or acts in support of a cause, especially one who intervenes on behalf a person being attacked or bullied).
François Fillon, frontrunner to be the next president of France, met “briefly” with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Brussels Thursday ahead of the European Council, a Fillon ally told POLITICO.
Alain Cadec, a French MEP, said the former prime minister had met with Merkel on the sidelines of a pre-summit meeting of the European People’s Party.
Fillon, whom polls show winning a presidential election against far-right chief Marine Le Pen, is reaching out to European peers, notably Germans, in a bid to bolster his international profile ahead of the election next May.
By meeting with Merkel, who is seeking reelection next year, Fillon is also casting himself as the legitimate guardian of the Franco-German partnership and an adversary of Le Pen’s Euroskeptic National Front.
“I can confirm that a meeting between Chancellor Merkel and Mr. Fillon took place, however the EPP never reports about bilateral meetings which take place in the margins of EPP summits and which have a confidential nature,” an EPP spokesman said.
On Thursday, the guests included Fillon, Merkel, Enda Kenny, the prime minister of Ireland, the new Italian Foreign Minister Angelino Alfano, and Simon Busuttil, Malta’s main opposition leader.
Limousine drivers calling for better working rights protested outside the European Parliament in Strasbourg Thursday.
As MEPs sat in plenary, around 10 drivers from the Parliament’s Strasbourg contractor Biribin Europe handed out leaflets demanding their company provide better conditions and pay.
The protest was scheduled to start at around 11 a.m., but the drivers arrived shortly after midday.
The Parliament currently spends €6.8 million a year on transport services for its members, but plans to gradually internalize driver operations from next year.
A Parliament spokesperson told POLITICO the plan to hire 110 new drivers would improve security and boost labor standards.
The plan would likely add €3.7 million to the tab for Parliament’s transport services. A total of €116,000 has already been set aside for uniforms for the new drivers needed to shuttle the 751 MEPs around.
EU leaders are gathered to discuss the implementation of the Turkey migration deal, how to ratify the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement after the Dutch referendum in June, sanctions against Russia and the conflict in Syria.
There will also be talks without British Prime Minister Theresa May on the EU27’s Brexit strategy.
The Czech secret service spied on President-elect Donald Trump and his Czech first wife Ivana in the 1970s and 80s when the country was under Communist rule, German publication Bild reported Wednesday.
A report compiled by the spy agency and obtained by Bild contain details of the couple’s marriage contract, including the fact that Trump wanted Ivana to bear three children and she would receive $1 million as a settlement if they divorced.
The intelligence service noted Trump benefited from “a personal relationship with American presidents” and that his company was “free of taxes for 30 years.” The New York Times reported that huge financial losses in 1995 created a tax deduction that could have allowed him to avoid paying taxes for 18 years.
A report from 1988 stated Trump wanted to become presidential candidate in the 1996 election and had expressed confidence he would win.
The secret service also monitored Ivana’s relationship with her father, who had stayed in what was then Czechoslovakia. They listened to at least one phone conversation a year, opened their correspondence and followed the Trump children when they visited their grandfather.
A trade agreement between the EU and the U.K. may take 10 years to finalize, if it is struck at all, Britain’s ambassador to the EU Ivan Rogers reportedly told his government.
According to the BBC, Rogers privately told the government the consensus among other European countries is that the details of a post-Brexit deal might not be hammered out for a decade. After that, the agreement would need to be ratified by every EU country and some national parliaments, which may veto it.
No. 10 expressed confidence a deal would be reached and declined to comment on Rogers’ purported views.
EU leaders will meet without British Prime Minister Theresa May on Thursday evening in Brussels to discuss Brexit. They are expected to ask Britain to speed up triggering the separation talks.
Russian President Vladimir Putin personally directed a campaign to interfere in the 2016 U.S. elections, dictating where hacked Democratic organization information was leaked, NBC News reported Wednesday, citing multiple senior intelligence officials.
The U.S. intelligence officials said their conclusions came via information from diplomatic sources and spies working for U.S. allies. They made their assessment of Putin’s involvement with “high confidence,” the top intelligence community designation for the reliability of spy agency judgments.
One official told NBC that the Russian campaign began as a Putin “vendetta” against Clinton, who used harsh rhetoric to describe him as far back as 2008, saying that as a former KGB agent, “by definition he has no soul.”
She was involved in the Obama administration “reset” with Russia but by the end of her time as secretary of state she was again describing Putin in unflattering terms.
But what began as a vendetta evolved into an effort to “split off key American allies by creating the image that [other countries] couldn’t depend on the U.S. to be a credible global leader anymore,” the U.S. intelligence official told NBC.
NBC also reported that the intelligence community has stepped up its effort to investigate Putin’s personal financial empire as part of a potential retaliation. Neither the CIA nor Office of the Director of National Intelligence commented to NBC on its story.
The more problems pile up for the European Union — migration crisis, economic troubles, the rise of Euroskeptic parties — the shorter the regular meetings of EU leaders become.
And so it is when leaders meet for their summit Thursday and President of the European Council Donald Tusk will have to deliver on his promise to free prime ministers after only a one-day session.
But one senior EU official described the summit as “a minefield” where “many things could still go wrong,” despite extensive preparation.
One of the most interesting things to watch will not be on the agenda but rather on the sidelines. Some diplomats expect leaders to start discussing the EU institutional framework in the wake of European Parliament President Martin Schulz’s decision to leave his position and in sight of the expiration of Tusk’s mandate in spring.
Here are five other things to watch for:
There are new sanctions against the Syrian regime on the table. The draft of the final statement, the Council conclusions, states clearly: “Those responsible for breaches of international law, some of which may amount to war crimes, must be held accountable. The EU is considering all available options.”
As long as the statement refers only to sanctions against the Syrian regime, everybody is on board. Should the U.K. or other countries try to push for new sanctions against Russia, it is likely to end in failure as it did at the October summit, when Italy’s then-Prime Minister Matteo Renzi managed to block new sanctions.
Since Russia was debated then, no big discussions are expected this time around. Instead, the rollover of economic sanctions against Moscow, introduced in connection with the conflict in Ukraine, will likely be smooth.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte put forward a legally binding text Sunday intended to ensure an association agreement with Ukraine will not create a defense guarantee or become a step toward membership of the bloc for the country.
Rutte, who lost an April referendum on ratification of the trade and security deal with Ukraine, has warned that if he doesn’t get such assurances at the summit, his country “will not ratify the association agreement.”
Diplomats said it’s almost done but wording that explicitly rules out any future Ukraine accession could see countries such as Poland reject it. The Council conclusions say that “completing the ratification process [of the deal with Ukraine] remains a crucial EU objective.”
A failure to ratify the agreement would be a huge defeat for the EU and Ukraine and a significant victory for Russia.
Finding an agreement on asylum reform at this stage of the game is going to be hard, if not impossible. Slovakia, which holds the rotating presidency, put forward its own proposal last month on “effective solidarity” which is basically a list of financial and logistic alternatives for countries that don’t want to take in refugees.
The Mediterranean countries — Italy, Greece and Malta — don’t like it because they are afraid they will be left with all the arrivals. Hungary doesn’t like it because the country wants all migrants’ cases to be processed outside the EU in identification centers in North Africa. The Germans are mediating but the road to a deal is long.
For the French, this will be the most important item on the agenda. Leaders are expected to bless further integration of EU defense, more military research and the creation of a real European defense market. “Only a few years ago, this would have been unthinkable,” said a senior official. “It’s a process that has got a strong push after Brexit,” led by France, Germany and Italy.
Leaders are also expected to endorse a two-speed Europe, allowing some countries to start without waiting for the consensus of the others.
Against such integration are the U.K., the Baltic countries and Poland. They fear anything that sounds like a duplication of NATO.
After the end of the meeting of the 28, there will be a dinner for 27. At the end of the dinner, the 27 leaders will issue a statement basically designed to tell the Brits: We are ready for our impending separation; please speed up divorce proceedings.
The statement will spell out that the first steps after notification will be the adoption, by a leaders’ summit, of guidelines that will define the framework for negotiations, said a diplomat. It does not explicitly say that there’ll be an extraordinary summit. Everything depends on the date of the notification. The guidelines can be adopted at the March summit if London makes the notification early enough.
The statement will also spell out the dynamic among the key EU institutions included in the decision-making process and will mention the involvement of Coreper, the regular meetings of EU ambassadors. The goal? To strike the right balance between the Commission and the member countries, and between efficiency and inclusiveness, explained the senior diplomat.
The United Kingdom might be trying to check out of the European Union, but there are at least 10 countries keen to be in. There’s a problem though: The EU’s golden age of expansion is over.
While national governments would like to ensure political stability in the EU’s neighborhood, they have no appetite to let those countries join before 2025. For some countries, such as Turkey, there’s almost no chance of ever joining. The European Parliament and countries such as Austria are already trying to suspend membership negotiations with Turkey.
“I won’t set a speed limit on the road to Europe,” said Johannes Hahn, the European commissioner responsible for EU enlargement, who insisted “Each candidate defines speed of joining via [its] own merit.”
At the same time, Hahn told a Western Balkans policy summit hosted by Friends of Europe on December 7, that there is a majority against EU enlargement in most EU countries. Instead of pushing EU national governments before they are ready Hahn suggested candidate countries focus on economic development and anti-corruption efforts.
Shada Islam, Europe director at Friends of Europe, is pessimistic. “I think we need to stop pretending and accept that there will be no new enlargement for many years — and that all these countries have a long way to go before they meet any of the key membership criteria,” Islam said, adding that given six to 10 years of continuous effort, the six Balkan nations may have a chance at membership.
The countries lining up for EU membership are becoming restless. “Enlargement is not high on the EU’s agenda and we know it,” said Natalie Sabanadze, Georgia’s ambassador to the EU.
Prior to the closed-door policy of the Juncker Commission, leaders in countries wanting to join the EU could promise to voters that EU membership would be forthcoming in exchange for sometimes difficult institutional and policy reforms. Today, even if a country meets all of the EU’s requirements it may be blocked for political reasons.
Western Balkans countries see themselves as rooted in Europe and warn that the EU will hurt itself if it fails to draw them close. Tanja Miščevič, Serbia’s chief membership negotiator, said “The Schengen system cannot function, and energy union cannot be completed, without the Western Balkan countries.”
Ditmir Bushati, Albania’s foreign minister, said that while it is clear “No one will be able to join EU in foreseeable future” it would be dangerous to allow Russia to fill a vacuum in his region.
If anyone can become a surprise front-runner in the membership race it is Albania, already a NATO member and mostly free from the complications of the Yugoslav wars of the 1990s.
All other prospective EU members in the Western Balkans suffer fundamental complications. For Macedonia, it’s as simple as Greece refusing to even recognize its name. Allowing Montenegro and Kosovo to join without Serbia alongside them could create a security risk for both countries. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the worst position of all and may hold these countries back if the EU insists they join in bloc formation.
Don’t expect the European Commission to give firm indications about any of this in 2017: The EU promises a policy update only in spring 2018.
Several EU officials POLITICO spoke to suggested that with Brexit and a new budget to negotiate and implement from 2020-2026, the EU simply doesn’t have room on its plate until 2027 to consider new members.
Goran Svilanović, a former Serbian foreign minister, and now head of the Regional Cooperation Council, said he is “very frustrated” by this approach and says that it would be better to “start negotiating. Keep us busy. Help us be successful.”
No country has even turned around a membership application in less than five years (Finland is the current record holder), and for former Warsaw Pact and Yugoslav states, 10-15 years is typical.
If Iceland decided to reapply for EU membership it would immediately shoot to the front of the queue, and if Scotland were to achieve independence, it would not be far behind. The Scottish government is keen. “As part of our response to the EU referendum we are exploring all options to protect Scotland’s relationship with Europe,” a government spokesperson said.
Another potential big member, Ukraine, is realistic about its membership prospects. Given the country’s internal difficulties and the rejection by Dutch voters of the country’s ‘Association Agreement’ with the EU, diplomats say neither it nor the EU are ready for membership. It would in any case be “suicidal” to join the EU while Russia is headed by Vladimir Putin, a senior diplomat told POLITICO.
Natalie Sabanadze, the Georgian ambassador, said Georgia is in a similar position. “Georgia is stubbornly pursuing [the] European and Euro-Atlantic course despite difficulties and costs involved,” she said.
“Our membership in the EU should be a mutually beneficial move not a matter of charity.”
Joining date: Not before 2025
Chances of joining: 80 percent
Pros: Albania has shown an ability to deliver bipartisan reforms and is “the least screwed-up country” in the Western Balkans, according to a diplomat active in the region. The country largely avoided the Yugoslav wars of the 1990s, allowing it distance from the problems of other EU applicants in the region.
Cons: Formal negotiations have not yet started, and corruption and organized crime remain serious problems, according to the European Commission. The Commission has also criticized the politicization of Albania’s courts.
Possible joining date: Not before 2027
Chances of joining: 90 percent
Pros: Montenegro is the richest Western Balkan nation per capita and has shown ongoing willingness to be part of Western institutions, as illustrated by its nearly completed bid for NATO membership.
Cons: Corruption remains “prevalent” and a “serious problem” according to the Commission, and other political and economic progress is moderate. Allowing Montenegro membership without including Serbia would expose the small nation to a security risk.
Possible joining date: Not before 2027
Chances of joining: 80 percent
Pros: Serbia is the biggest of the Western Balkan countries hoping to join the EU, and could be a pro-EU stabilizing force in the region and good neighbor if kept within the EU’s orbit. The Commission has praised Serbia for aligning its legislation with the EU across the board.
Cons: There has been no progress over the past year in fighting corruption. Serbia may also continue refusing to recognize Kosovo unless offered EU membership, which may be tactically clever but breaches the spirit of EU norms.
Possible joining date: Not before 2027, possibly much later
Chances of joining: 50 percent
Pros: This multi-ethnic, multi-religion country could one day be a poster child for the EU’s ability to forge unity from diversity. And if the EU membership process can drag Bosnia up to speed with its neighbors, the prize could be a transformed region.
Cons: Not even the citizens of this country can agree on its basis or continued existence. The country’s constitution will also need a dramatic makeover to meet EU fundamental rights and other standards.
Possible joining date: Not before 2027
Chances of joining: 30 percent
Pros: Kosovo stands to gain strength in numbers and valuable institution-building capacity through the EU membership process, and has already adopted the euro as its currency.
Cons: It is home to a troubled EU rule-of-law mission (which at times has had 2,000 staff members), and due to deep political polarization and ongoing corruption, the journey to EU membership will be a long one. Its sovereignty is not recognized by five EU countries, nor by its biggest neighbor Serbia.
Possible joining date: Not before 2030
Chances of joining: 50 percent
Pros: The country has fewer internal problems than Bosnia.
Cons: Membership negotiations have been painfully slow. Greece objects to even the name “Macedonia” as it sees this as a threat to the territorial integrity of its own Macedonia region. Macedonia also has numerous disputes with Bulgaria and there are persistent concerns to democracy and rule of law.
Possible joining date: Not before 2035
Chances of joining: 20 percent
Pros: Its government could not be more positive about the EU in its rhetoric. “Georgia has no alternative,” Ambassador Sabanadze told POLITICO. “Georgians want to live in a normal, European-style democracy and they want to safeguard political independence and territorial integrity.”
Cons: Georgia is saddled with its former relationship with Russia, and like Ukraine, faces a frustrated path to EU and NATO membership, independent of the reforms it delivers as part of its membership bid.
Possible joining date: Not before 2035
Chances of joining: 50 percent
Pros: Moldova has strong ties, a shared language and a similar culture to its neighbor Romania.
Cons: The small country has a breakaway republic (Transnistria) supported by a Russian military presence, and is the poorest of the prospective EU members. A pro-Russian, anti-EU president was elected last month.
Possible joining date: Not before 2035
Chances of joining: 20 percent
Pros: Millions of Ukrainians are so committed to moving into the EU’s political and economic orbit they are willing to protest or shed blood. EU links are a means to achieving stability in the post-Soviet era.
Cons: Even a loose “Association Agreement” proved too much for Dutch voters to accept in 2016, and political fears delayed EU government support for visa-free access for Ukrainians into the Schengen area. Its easter regions are war-torn and Crimea was annexed by Russia in 2014.
Possible joining date: Not applicable
Chances of joining: 0 percent
Pros: Inclusion of Turkey into Western institutions, and a sign that moderate Islam is welcome at the world’s top tables.
Cons: Turkey has been drifting toward authoritarianism under President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, with fundamental rule of law and freedom of expression problems. Only a small percentage of the country is geographically in Europe. Some EU institutions such as the Parliament, and governments such as Austria’s, want membership talks suspended.
Possible joining date: Five years after restarting bid, meaning not before 2022.
Chances of joining: 100 percent if a reapplication is made. 20 percent overall.
Pros: One of the world’s oldest democracies, Iceland boasts a strategic mid-Atlantic location, high education levels and strong cultural links to Europe.
Cons: Iceland has permanent Euroskeptic factions born from concern about protecting the nation’s fishing rights (which would be limited and partially collectivized in the EU), and the fact that it got rich on its own, and doesn’t need the EU to develop.
Possible joining date: Five years after applying, meaning not before 2024.
Chances of joining: 90 percent if application is made. 20 percent overall.
Pros: An independent Scotland in the EU would be a major prize for European integrationists. Scotland is EU-enthusiastic, with a government spokesperson calling Brexit: “a democratic outrage” against Scottish voters.
Cons: Anything short of Scotland’s full independence from the U.K. might trigger Spain to block Scotland’s bid to avoid setting a precedent for Catalan nationalists.
BRUSSELS — The marriage has broken down. Now for the divorce proceedings.
At the European Council Thursday, Britain and the other 27 EU member countries will start to put the fights and angry recriminations of June’s Brexit referendum to one side and finally begin the formal stages of separation.
Over dinner, the Continent’s leaders will meet without Theresa May to begin building their case against the unfaithful, departing partner.
In the statement to be published after the dinner Thursday night, the EU27 will announce plans for an EU Council — probably an extraordinary one after the March summit — within weeks of Britain formally triggering Article 50 early next year, diplomatic sources told POLITICO.
The move is designed — in part — to head off complaints about member countries being sidelined from the negotiations with Britain.
At the summit next year, the European Commission will be confirmed as the bloc’s lead negotiator — the nightmare federalist divorce lawyer tasked with getting the best deal for EU capitals who are fearful of being picked off and weakened as a bloc by the U.K.
According to two senior sources in Brussels, the EU27 will ram home their message of unity in the statement at the end of this week’s dinner. According to diplomats who spoke to POLITICO, the message will be simple: We are ready, it’s time you got on with it.
In Westminster, May’s government is sanguine about the EU27’s public show of unity. A Downing Street source said the U.K. government welcomed the talks, despite being excluded. The source said the prime minister did not object to being sidelined because the meeting showed the other member countries were finally “facing up to the reality of Britain leaving the European Union.”
The source said the meeting was to allow the EU27 to “organize” themselves ahead of Article 50 being triggered early next year, which was fine by Downing Street.
May — who campaigned for Remain, but has taken up the Brexit cause with the enthusiasm of a convert — does not want to make a fuss about the U.K.’s exclusion from Thursday’s talks.
Despite her tough rhetoric on immigration and the European Court of Justice, the U.K. prime minister is determined to maintain good diplomatic relations ahead of the divorce proceedings.
In the discussions between the 28, the British prime minister will play a constructive role — offering more help to Greece to cope with its migration problems, support for Berlin over the EU-Turkey migration deal and continuing EU foreign policy unity against Russia and Syria amid widespread concern over the incoming Donald Trump administration in the U.S.
May will also meet European Parliament President Martin Schulz in a deliberate move to reassure MEPs that the U.K. government takes their role seriously.
In a letter to European Council President Donald Tusk released last night, Schulz attacked the way the statement from the 27 heads of state or government relegated the European Parliament “to a secondary position in the Brexit negotiation process.”
The European Parliament will have no formal role in the negotiations — set to be conducted between the U.K.’s Brexit Secretary David Davis and the Commission’s Michel Barnier — but can veto any deal.
In his letter, Schulz warned Tusk that if the Parliament could “draw up its own detailed arrangements” with Barnier and the U.K. government, and was prepared to block a deal it did not like — forcing the U.K. to crash out of the EU without an agreement. “This would be the very hardest of Brexits and to the detriment of everybody,” he warned.
Thursday’s EU summit comes amid growing clarity over the U.K.’s Brexit plan. On Monday, Chancellor Philip Hammond called for a transition period to give the U.K. a “smooth” landing out of the EU.
On Wednesday, Davis publicly admitted a transition might be necessary.
Appearing in front of a committee of MPs, Davis said he was open to a transition period, but only to allow the “implementation” of any agreement the U.K. had reached with Brussels within the two-year exit period.
“We are aiming to get ourselves in a position where we can negotiate within the Article 50 process,” he said. “Article 50 was written to allow departures from the European Union, that’s its purpose. Plainly the authors of it thought it was time enough to do the job. And so do I.”
But he added that an “implementation phase” could be acceptable “if it is necessary and only if it is necessary.”
“The British people want this done with some degree of expedition, they want it done properly and soon and that is what we are trying to do.”
Yahoo on Wednesday disclosed a massive data breach that compromised more than 1 billion accounts, double the size of a mammoth hack the company revealed in September.
“Yahoo believes an unauthorized third party, in August 2013, stole data associated with more than one billion user accounts,” the tech giant announced. “The company has not been able to identify the intrusion associated with this theft.”
The revelation is the second cybersecurity bombshell from Yahoo in recent months. In September, the tech giant revealed a breach that exposed over 500 million user accounts.
At the time, the hack — which Yahoo blamed on a “state-sponsored actor” — was considered one of the biggest in history. The incident also rattled a pending sale to Verizon for nearly $5 billion and angered lawmakers who chastised Yahoo for not notifying the public sooner.
Data stolen in the newly disclosed breach “included names, email addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, hashed passwords (using MD5) and, in some cases, encrypted or unencrypted security questions and answers.”
The company is notifying users who might have been affected and mandating password changes.
The announcement had a secondary component, too.
Yahoo said its outside forensic experts are investigating a scheme to create forged cookies that might let hackers crack into accounts without passwords.
“Based on the ongoing investigation, the company believes an unauthorized third party accessed the company’s proprietary code to learn how to forge cookies,” the release stated.
The digital infiltrators using this method may be connected “to the same state-sponsored actor” Yahoo blamed for its earlier breach, the company said.
Even within his own party, Antonio Tajani’s victory as the main conservative candidate for president of the European Parliament hasn’t gone over smoothly.
Many MEPs are upset about his pick, which they say may be politically foolhardy as well as a triumph of behind-the-scenes party politics at a time when the EU urgently needs change.
Many also wonder how the largest group in the Parliament could have elected an ally of former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and someone whose name is associated with a major industrial scandal.
“It was a deplorable spectacle and sends a bad signal to Europe in these difficult times,” said Franck Engel, a member of the European People’s Party (EPP) from Luxembourg. “We have elected a man who was Berlusconi’s right hand, the chief clown of Italian politics, and who didn’t leave any significant mark on his country.”
Tajani, a vice-president of the Parliament, was elected Tuesday as the EPP candidate for the presidency, winning 94 votes in the first of three possible rounds, after which the other candidates withdrew.
Tajani’s appeal across the house is limited not only by his association with Berlusconi but by his role as transport commissioner overseeing emissions legislation during the Dieselgate scandal.
Several MEPs have also expressed doubt that he’ll be able to unite an increasingly fractured assembly. And Tajani could suffer from divided loyalties among Italian MEPs because the Socialist candidate for the presidency is his fellow countryman Gianni Pittella.
Philippe Lambert, the leader of the Greens, said his group had thought about endorsing Mairead McGuinness, another EPP candidate. “Tajani was a no go,” Lambert said. “It is not with a name like that that you can unite the Parliament.”
Sylvie Goulard, a French member of the liberal ALDE group, said that whether Tajani has good relations with his group is irrelevant. “The problem is, we have not defined any job description,” she said. “Do we care about experience or do we want renewal? In my opinion, we want renewal.”
The other groups’ candidates include Belgian MEP Helga Stevens from the European Conservatives and Reformists and Eleonora Forenza, an Italian MEP from the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
As the Liberals and Green groups are opposed to Tajani’s candidacy, he will need support from the Socialists. That won’t be easy, not least because Pittella is running himself and has said the power-sharing deal between EPP and the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D) is over.
A former Italian air force officer and journalist, the 63-year-old Tajani was elected as an MEP four times, leading Berlusconi’s Forza Italia delegation in the European Parliament from 1999 to 2008. Tajani, who is fluent in English, French and Spanish, also served as commissioner for transport and for industry and entrepreneurship.
Parliament sources said he lobbied hard to get elected — even before the contest was triggered by the departure of current president Martin Schulz, who will leave the post in the new year.
“He was very well-prepared during his campaign,” said one official of Tajani. “He came before every delegation in the assembly with a file about each country and a strategy on how he would help them,” the source said, adding that Tajani had been campaigning for years.
“After the power-sharing deal was signed, he already talked about it,” the official said, referring to the 2014 agreement between the EPP and the Socialists for the EPP to take over the presidency in 2017.
Many say Tajani drew on his relationships with several European leaders which he has built over the course of his career.
“He called leaders and prime ministers to get their support,” said another EPP official. “He has been around since 1994 and is a great networker. At EPP summits, he’s always been lobbying a lot. He’s a great lobbyist campaigner.”
Before the election, Tajani met heads of delegations from Spain and Portugal on Monday to lobby for their support, which he got.
Some Spanish MEPs praised Tajani for his role in helping save several Spanish companies from bankruptcy when he was commissioner for industry. In 2013, Tajani helped the American Multinational Tenneco Inc., which produces shock absorbers, avoid the closure of its plant in the city of Gijón. Tajani set up a working group with regional authorities to keep the business afloat, and the company was rescued. (Its workers even decided to name one of Gijón’s streets “Calle Tajani.”)
After he won the primary, Antonio Lopez-Isturiz White, a Spanish MEP, took to Twitter to say Tajani “would be a great president of the European Parliament.”
Some also saw the powerful German Christian Democrats behind Tajani’s victory. “It was always going to be the case that whoever the CDU wanted, they would get,” said one Parliament official.
In his first public speech after his win, Tajani said he would fight to preserve cooperation with the rival  S&D group. Last month, Pittella, the S&D leader, promised to scrap a “grand coalition” with the EPP that enabled European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and Schulz to push through crucial EU legislation.
Asked whether he was prepared to field questions about his involvement in the so-called Dieselgate scandal, Tajani said: “Dieselgate is not a problem for me.”
“Everybody approved my strategy,” he said.
On his strong ties with Berlusconi, he told POLITICO that he had “no problem” with the party founded by the billionaire, Forza Italia.
“Everybody knows who I am,” Tajani said. “I am one of the founders of Forza Italia and I won’t change my story … I am not a traitor. I am going to work and I’ll always be the same person.”
The new Italian government won a confidence vote in the Senate on Wednesday, one day after it received support from the lower house of parliament.
Paolo Gentiloni’s government won 169 votes to 99. In the House of Representatives, it was supported 368 to 105.
The new prime minister said he would carry out reforms initiated by the former government, and his priority will be a new electoral law for both chambers, following last week’s rejection of proposed constitutional changes, Italian media reported. Former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi resigned last week in the wake of that referendum.
Gentiloni will participate in his first European Council with other EU leaders Thursday in Brussels.
BERLIN — Membership in Germany’s main parties on the left side of the political spectrum has risen in the past month — and Donald Trump’s shock election likely played a role.
Some 1,900 people asked to join the Social Democratic Party (SPD) in November. That’s more than twice as much as the month before, according to a party spokesperson. Most of these new party members were young, with 1,000 of them 35 or less. 
“Many people are realizing how important it is to commit themselves to democracy and social cohesion, considering that right-wing nationalism is becoming louder and louder in Europe and in the world,” general secretary of the party Katarina Barley said this week, Der Spiegel reported.
This is welcome news for the SPD, which has seen its membership drop in previous years. Last year alone, the party lost over 17,000 members, according to a study published in July. Membership in Germany’s main political parties has decreased steadily in the past decade, the study showed. The decline was especially stark for the SPD, which lost almost half of its members between 1995 and 2015.
The Green party also registered more than 250 new memberships on their website in the five days following the American presidential election, a party spokeswoman said. The spike in new members coincided with a party conference November 11-13 and new efforts to recruit members in view of the January primary, she said, which makes it harder to attribute it solely to Trump’s election.
However, the spokeswoman said the party had seen a surge of new applicants after the AfD registered electoral successes in the past year. New members are probably people who were already considering to join and applied after they saw right-wing political success in Europe and the U.S., she said.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, on the other hand, didn’t appear to benefit from Trump’s election. About 945 people asked to join the CDU in November, slightly under the monthly average of 1,000, Der Spiegel reported.
The AfD said they gained on average 50 new members a month but declined to give details about November alone.
EU plans to improve the rights of workers sent from one country to another will be debated by MEPs Thursday against a backdrop of fierce opposition from Central and Eastern European countries.
The aim is to close loopholes in a two-decades-old law on “posted workers” that allow businesses to ship cheap labor from country to country to bypass stringent employment rules — so-called social dumping. According to the plans, posted workers should receive the same pay and benefits as local workers, with local employment rules kicking in after 24 months.
But while France and Germany are pushing hard for the changes, a number of mainly Central and Eastern European countries remain strongly opposed. In both the Council of the EU and the European Parliament — which must both agree on the changes before they become law — the same East-West splits have emerged.
Earlier this year, parliaments in 11 EU countries launched an unsuccessful attempt to get the European Commission to reconsider its proposal. They cited concerns about EU mission creep into the setting of wages and fears about limitations on the free movement of people.
Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker rejected those concerns, arguing that the movement of workers across borders required action at EU level.
“The internal market is not a place where Eastern European workers can be exploited or subjected to lower social standards,” he said in his State of the Union speech in September. “Europe is not the Wild West, but a social market economy.”
A senior Commission official who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed that other elements of the Commission’s work program are being held up by the posted workers discussions: “Juncker won’t move on the sharing economy [proposals], if at all, unless that fight is sorted.”
Members representing the political groups on Parliament’s Employment Committee will Thursday discuss amendments to the Commission’s proposal, drawn up by MEPs Agnes Jongerius and Élisabeth Morin-Chartier, although the meeting will not be televised and its conclusions not made public.
Given that the two MEPs represent political groups — the S&D and EPP — which have enough votes to secure a majority in the Parliament, their demands are likely to become the institution’s formal position.
“We are not trying to stop labor migration,” said former Dutch trade unionist Jongerius. “We are trying to set up a new set of fair rules to stop this unfair competition and exploitation of workers.”
Jongerius argued that the rise of populism in many EU countries is in part because companies are allowed to import cheap labor, undercutting wage levels.
She has the backing of the European Trade Union Confederation, whose confederal secretary Liina Carr welcomed the move, saying the MEPs have made “some important improvements” to the Commission’s proposal.
However, she wants the length of time workers can be treated as “posted” to be cut from 24 to 12 months, after which the employment regulations of the host country would kick in.
Not all MEPs are behind the changes, which are “motivated by public opinion, not facts,” said Martina Dlabajová, a Czech Liberal MEP. “Unfortunately, it is a false promise to workers who think their lives will be better. Instead, some of them might be out of work soon.”
The planned changes prompted a furious backlash from Europe’s largest business lobby, BusinessEurope. Its fear is that there will be no economic benefit for a company posting workers to a different country if the cost of doing so rises dramatically.
“European companies are afraid that the proposals … in particular broadening of the legal basis of the directive … would make it more difficult for companies and its workers to move across borders,” said Maxime Cerutti, the group’s director of social affairs, who believes that better enforcement of the existing rules would solve the problem of social dumping.
Slovakia, which holds the rotating presidency of the Council until the end of December, drew up a compromise proposal in a bid to breach the gap between Western and Eastern countries.
According to confidential documents seen by POLITICO, “all delegations are considered to have general scrutiny reservations,” while Estonia, Denmark, Hungary, Malta, Romania and the U.K. have to consult their national parliaments before giving the go-ahead.
“This is indeed a tough nut to crack,” said Slovakia’s employment minister, Jan Richter, earlier this month.
The story has been updated to correct the time limit ETUC wants for workers to be treated as “posted.”
BELGRADE — Elections in Macedonia were meant to help resolve the country’s protracted political crisis, but knife-edge results instead look set to deepen it, with ethnic Albanian parties likely emerging as the kingmakers.
The country’s two largest parties initially claimed victory, but preliminary results announced Monday by the State Election Commission showed the incumbent nationalist party, VMRO, edging a victory with 51 seats. Their main rivals, the Social Democrats, took 49.
However, ballot challenges in some areas mean reruns may have to be held, a situation which would further muddy the waters. “There are still no clear winners, and several potential losers,” said Ana Petruseva, head of the Macedonia office for the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network. “In some places, a few hundred votes could change the result … Then there is also the matter of forming a government. Resolving the situation could take days or even weeks.”
Whatever the ultimate outcome, the makeup of the government is likely to have an impact across the region. While the EU has pressured Macedonia to improve its record on corruption and rule of law, its leverage remains limited.
If the migration deal with Turkey collapses, the EU will need Macedonia to cooperate and fortify its borders, but the bloc has little to offer in return. Macedonia’s progression toward the EU cannot advance until it resolves its long-standing name dispute with Greece, which is unlikely to happen anytime soon.
Macedonia, a former Yugoslav country of some 2.1 million people, has been mired in political crisis since the 2014 release of tapes implicating Nikola Gruevski’s VMRO-led government, alongside the secret service, in the mass illegal wiretapping of opposition politicians, activists and journalists.
The revelation — denounced by Gruevski as the work of his political opponents and unnamed foreign agents — sparked large street protests known as the “colorful revolution.” EU intervention, which led to early elections, came about when Macedonia’s president, Gjorge Ivanov, a VMRO party member, attempted to pre-emptively pardon all those accused of involvement. In a November report, the European Commission said that Gruevski’s control over the country’s institutions amounted to “state capture.”
The country found itself at the forefront of the migrant crisis, with more than 1 million migrants and refugees from Africa and the Middle East using the country as a corridor to Western Europe.
But if elections were aimed at resolving the political crisis, protracted coalition negotiations and further instability are now the most likely outcome.
Albanians comprise about one-quarter of Macedonia’s population and have traditionally voted along ethnic lines for Albanian parties, of which the DUI was the largest. However, the Albanian DUI — VMRO’s junior coalition partner in the previous — also suffered heavy losses at the polls as thousands turn away from the traditional parties in favor of Besa, a newcomer to the Albanian political scene, — in a first for — to the non-ethnically aligned Social Democrats, the largest opposition party.
“Historically, we’ve never had this kind of result,” said Petruseva. “It’s clear that [the DUI] are being punished for their alliance with VMRO, and the [Social Democrats’] gains are a direct result of that.”
While the DUI saw its number of MPs slashed by nearly — to 10, down from 19 in 2014 — the Social Democrats gained 15. Of particular note is the main opposition party’s headway in Albanian-dominated areas, including Gostiva, Tetovo and Aricinovo, considered the heartland of the DUI. Newcomer Besa, now the second largest Albanian party, took five seats.
But while DUI leader, Ali Ahmeti, lamented the result as a “lost” mandate for Albanians, analysts say that Albanian voters shift away from voting solely on ethnic issues could be one positive outcome from the election.
“These protests do seem, to some extent, to have united the two communities, certainly among the youth,” said James Ker-Lindsay, senior research fellow on Southeast Europe at the London School of Economics. “What remains to be seen is how deep this runs and whether this kind of alliance will last beyond protests and this election.”
The Social Democrats’ unprecedented gains among Albanian voters are, in part, a result of the party’s platform, which focused on social justice, tackling corruption and civic reform, promising higher wages and lower taxes.
 
However, it is also a reflection of Albanians’ deep disillusionment with the DUI, which is seen as having done little to advance the position of the ethnic minority group while in coalition with the nationalist VMRO, as well as being tainted by its involvement in the wiretapping scandal.
Nonetheless, despite their losses, the DUI still are likely to end up as kingmakers — at least initially. In Macedonia, the largest Albanian party typically becomes the junior partner in a coalition government with the winning party.
Yet while the DUI’s 10 seats could allow VMRO to squeak a majority of 61 of 120 seats in parliament, it remains to be seen whether they will be willing to enter into an alliance with Gruevski’s party again. Doing so would not only risk further losses for the DUI in the next election but would also result in an extremely precarious government, vulnerable to being thwarted by a single dissenter.
“All it would take is for one Albanian deputy to oppose the government and there would be a serious problem,” said Florian Bieber, director of the Centre for Southeast European Studies at the University of Graz in Austria. “Forming a new government with VMRO is not going to help them [the DUI] recover the votes. It seems like a foolish thing to do.”
Another option would be some form of coalition of the “opposition,” bringing together the Social Democrats with an assortment of Albanian parties. But that, too, could be challenging. Relations between Besa and DUI are fraught with their own difficulties and DUI’s involvement in the wiretapping scandal means they would likely oppose further investigations into the matter.
Excluding VMRO altogether in favor of Albanian parties would also create problems of its own, potentially exacerbating ethnic tensions in a country that only narrowly avoided the outbreak of a full-blown conflict between Albanian militant groups and state security forces in 2001.
A third option, a grand coalition, also seems unlikely due to the deep-rooted animosity between VMRO and the Social Democrats: Gruevski has vowed to close down the special prosecution charged with investigating the wiretapping affair, while the Social Democrats have pledged to bring those behind it to justice.
Meanwhile, experts warn that EU support for another VMRO-led government, especially if wiretapping investigations are halted, sends out a message to other aspiring members countries in the region about what will be tolerated by the bloc.
“If there is a reformist government then that’s an encouragement for the EU that it can achieve the same in Serbia, Montenegro and elsewhere as well,” says Bieber. “But if not, then it’s an encouraging message to more authoritarian-minded governments in the region that they face very little threat to these kinds of practices.”
LONDON — The U.K. government will not reveal its plan for Brexit until at least February, David Davis said Wednesday.
The Brexit secretary, appearing in front of a committee of MPs, said the government would publish details of its exit plan “as soon as we can” but confirmed it would not be ready next month.
Davis, one of the leading Euroskeptic figures in the government, also sought to play down remarks by Philip Hammond on Monday in which the chancellor called for a transition period to smooth Britain’s exit.
Davis said he was open to a transition period, but only to allow the “implementation” of the agreement on Britain’s exit.
“We are aiming to get ourselves in a position where we can negotiate within the Article 50 process,” he said. “Article 50 was written to allow departures from the European Union, that’s its purpose. Plainly the authors of it thought it was time enough to do the job. And so do I.”
David added: “The British people want this done properly and soon. That’s what we are trying to do.”
He said the government’s aim was a “smooth and orderly exit.”
“Within that box,” he added, “we want to get the maximum market access for companies with the minimum of disruption, so we will do what’s necessary to that aim.”
London Mayor Sadiq Khan is trying to sell three unused water cannons his predecessor Boris Johnson ordered from German federal police in 2014, the BBC reported Wednesday.
About £323,000 was spent to buy and outfit the vehicles but then Home Secretary Theresa May didn’t allow the cannons to be used in England and Wales over concerns they may cause spinal injuries and were unhelpful in fast-moving riot situations.
Nearly £1,000 went on installing stereos, which the Greater London Authority said were designed to allow operators to listen to the news.
Khan now hopes to sell the cannons for between £35,000 and £43,000 each.
“It beggars belief that such a huge amount of taxpayers’ money has been wasted on paying to store these redundant machines,” Khan said.
The purchase was used by May, now U.K. prime minister, to make fun of Johnson’s negotiation skills during the Tory leadership race in June following the vote to leave the EU. She later appointed him foreign secretary.
“Boris negotiated in Europe. I seem to remember last time he did a deal with the Germans, he came back with three nearly-new water cannons,” May said at the time.

A Dutch court ruled Wednesday that Crimean treasures held by an Amsterdam museum should be handed back to the Ukrainian government rather than the museums in Crimea from where they originated.
Dutch media reported the court’s finding that under UNESCO rules the artifacts, which include jewels and a scabbard and ceremonial helmet made of gold, should return to the sovereign state, which is Ukraine.
The archaeological objects were part of a 2014 exhibition at the Allard Pierson Museum in the Dutch capital, and were on display when the Crimean peninsula was annexed by Russia in March of that year.
Four Crimean museums went to court in November 2014 to force the museum to return the collection, but Ukraine argued that it was state property.
The judges said it would be up to courts in Ukraine to decide the rightful owner of the collection. They ordered the government in Kiev to pay the Dutch museum €110,000 to cover additional insurance and storage costs over the past two years.
The collection will not be sent back to Ukraine immediately, the BBC reported, due to a three-month period in which the Russian government may appeal the decision.
Donald Trump’s White House-in-waiting is already being roiled by divisions, with the conservative outsiders who helped power his historic victory colliding with a Republican Party establishment muscling its way in.
Insiders paint a picture of constant score-keeping and simmering suspicion within Trump world — one even called it “vitriolic.” And they foresee incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, the party stalwart, and chief strategist Steve Bannon, the populist firebrand, headed for an inevitable clash.
Some have begun to chafe at the power being exhibited by Priebus — who, along with a team of lieutenants, is exerting broad influence over hiring decisions.
During one recent meeting, Trump told former campaign manager Kellyanne Conway and Priebus that Conway, who is aligned with Bannon and is one of the president-elect’s closest aides, would get whatever post she wanted. Priebus jumped in, responding that Conway would take a position in the administration and that he was working with her on a role, according to two people familiar with the exchange.
But Conway, who has been undecided about whether to work for Trump in the West Wing or outside the White House, sharply rejected that assertion.
Priebus, Conway said, doesn’t speak for her.
Trump appeared taken aback. “Oh, she’s tough,” he told Priebus.
Trump, a businessman-turned-politician, has long encouraged competition between factions within his organizations, creating a pressure-cooker environment where almost every decision resulted in a winner and a loser. In the end, one side would be vanquished and another would take its place, and the cycle would repeat.
Trump’s campaign was for months paralyzed as his two top aides, Paul Manafort and Corey Lewandowski, locked horns. Manafort would eventually prevail, with Lewandowski’s firing, but it wasn’t long before Manafort was supplanted by the trio of Bannon, Conway and conservative activist David Bossie.
Now, as Trump builds out his government, little seems to have changed. If anything, transition officials say, Trump seems to be relishing the idea of presiding over a divided administration.
A few weeks ago, Trump, Bannon and Conway motorcaded from Trump Tower out to the Long Island estate of Rebekah Mercer, an influential mega-donor who has funded conservative causes at odds with the party establishment, for a “Heroes and Villains” costume party. Priebus was conspicuously absent.
When Trump addressed the crowd that evening, he made a point of thanking Bannon and Conway — both of whom are closely allied with Mercer — as well as Mercer herself, according to two people briefed on Trump’s remarks.
Then, Trump asked, “Where’s Reince?”
While it was not clear whether Trump intended the remark as a joke at Priebus’ expense, it nonetheless prompted knowing laughter from attendees, who regarded the chief of staff as unwelcome among the anti-establishment set.
One of the biggest flare-ups centered on the race to succeed Priebus as Republican National Committee chair, an internal battle in which Priebus got the upper hand — but not before it devolved into an insider-vs.-outsider showdown.
Bannon, joined by Vice President-elect Mike Pence, Conway and Mercer, pushed for Georgia-based Nick Ayers, an RNC outsider and Pence adviser, to get the job. Priebus, meanwhile, threw his support to Ronna Romney McDaniel, an ally who, as the sitting chair of the Michigan GOP, is a current RNC member.
As the talks intensified, some Trump aides who supported Ayers grew frustrated. Priebus, they felt, was getting behind McDaniel, the niece of former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, simply because he wanted to maintain influence over the committee.
In the end, it was McDaniel who got Trump’s approval. On Friday evening, the president-elect stood backstage with McDaniel prior to a rally in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and told her he looked forward to working together.
But there was a twist, one that underscored the deepening divide in Trump Tower.
After much horse-trading and negotiating, Trump decided that McDaniel’s RNC co-chair wouldn’t be a fellow establishment figure, but rather Bob Paduchik, a campaign loyalist who oversaw his campaign in Ohio. (Trump has yet to officially announce the McDaniel-Paduchik RNC partnership, though it is expected to be rolled out in the coming days.)
Priebus has prevailed in other early personnel contests. Two of his top lieutenants, Katie Walsh and Sean Spicer, are all but certain to get senior positions, and there has been talk that Raj Shah, who oversaw Priebus’ research shop at the RNC, will be hired, too.
“Those are huge wins for Reince,” said one transition adviser. “Trump works on a power proximity matrix, so if he’s seeing Reince and his people every day in the White House, that gives him a lot of juice.”
Priebus’ momentum has stoked concern among Trump’s conservative loyalists, who fear they will be left out in the cold after risking their careers to support him when few Republican operatives would. Some of them described the RNC forces as highly organized and said there was rising concern that they would move swiftly to lock down the most coveted West Wing jobs. And while RNC staffers have a supporter in Priebus, loyalists say, it’s not always clear who’s advocating on their behalf.
As anxiety has increased, so, too, has suspicion. One Trump aide, who has yet to lock down a job, said he recently observed a closed room full of RNC staffers in Trump Tower pecking away at laptops and wondered what they were up to.
“The transition has taken a decidedly nasty and more vitriolic turn,” said another aide, who said each day brought “more division and more pieces of contention to argue over.”
Trump is aware of the rancor. Last week, after POLITICO published a story detailing how many of Trump’s longest-serving loyalists hadn’t been contacted about jobs, the president-elect responded angrily. He told Priebus to fix it, four transition sources said.
Priebus subsequently reached out to a number of loyalists, including Lewandowski, to reassure them. They would be taken care of, he promised — there had simply been more focus on filling high-level Cabinet posts than on West Wing staffing.
Those close to Priebus dispute the idea that he’s stocking the administration with his allies. During staffing discussions, they say, RNC officials have been working with former Trump campaign staffers to ensure that neither side is getting a disproportionate share of posts, according to a transition team official.
“There is constant horse-trading and balancing,” said the official. “Every one piece you take off the board is another less piece that you have to bargain with.”
But there’s no hostility, the official argued, stressing that it’s the president-elect who makes the final call on every staffing decision.
And, as is often the case with Trump, he sometimes goes his own way — without regard for his staff’s sensitivities.
EU citizens who have lived in the U.K. since before the country voted to leave the bloc need to keep an evidence file, the chair of a House of Lords committee told the Guardian in an interview published Wednesday.
Helena Kennedy said bills, rental or home ownership documents, and employment contracts should be kept to help make the case for continued residency after Brexit.
“Make a file now with proof of your presence [and] supporting letters from people who’ve known you, who have taught you or who you have had business dealings with,” Kennedy said.
Kennedy chairs a House of Lords subcommittee that is expected to call for the British government to unilaterally guarantee residence rights for EU nationals who were in the U.K. prior to the Brexit vote.
People in France, Italy, Belgium, Poland and Germany vastly overestimate both the number of Muslims living in their countries now and how many will be living in them in 2020, according to an Ipsos MORI study released Wednesday.
The French believe Muslims make up 31 percent of the population, while in reality they account for 7.5 percent. Survey respondents said Islam would be the religion of 40 percent of the country in 2020, far in excess of the 8.3 percent demographers estimate.
Italians, Germans and Belgians believed Muslims make up a fifth of their countries’ populations, when in reality the figure was under 7 percent.
In Poland, though the Muslim community represents just 0.1 percent of the population, respondents said it accounted for 5 percent, and reckoned it would more than double by 2020. Demographers say the population is unlikely to grow.
The results were similar in other countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Ipsos MORI interviewed 27,250 people in 40 countries between September 22 and November 6 this year.
BERGA, Spain — A large Catalan independence flag hangs from the city hall of Berga, a town of 16,000 inhabitants in the foothills of the Pyrenees. Known as the Estelada, the red-and-yellow striped design with a single star is also visible on almost all the surrounding buildings in the medieval square of Sant Pere, reflecting the depth of feeling about Catalan nationalism in the town.
A few weeks ago, this flag briefly became the flashpoint for a confrontation between Madrid and Catalonia over the north-eastern region’s drive for independence from Spain.
Early on the morning of November 4, police arrested Berga’s mayor, Montserrat Venturós, at her home and took her to a nearby courtroom to appear before a judge. The 31-year-old was accused of violating electoral laws by flying the Estelada from the town hall during the campaigns ahead of last year’s Catalan regional election and the Spanish general election. Her arrest was specifically the consequence of her refusal to obey two earlier court summonses.
Nationalists in the region immediately seized on this as an example of the Spanish state repressing Catalan culture.
Throughout that November day, Venturós, of the leftist Popular Unity Candidacy (CUP), received messages of support from nationalists across the region. Among them was the Catalan premier, Carles Puigdemont, who tweeted his backing to her “and all the elected officials who suffer persecution for their ideals.” Improvised demonstrations were held in other towns and that same morning the separatist Catalan National Assembly (ANC) designed a poster with an illustration of Venturós’ face next to the words “You’ll never walk alone.” It went viral. 
When the mayor emerged, defiant and tearful, from the courthouse, dozens of supporters had gathered to cheer her.
This was just one of many clashes between Catalan politicians and the Spanish judiciary in recent months. The spotlight of nationalist outrage has since moved elsewhere, but Venturós’ CUP remains the fiercest expression of Catalan separatism in mainstream politics. Despite its small size, this anti-capitalist party has become a crucial player in the separatist drive — and one which could ensure the project’s success or bring it crashing to the ground. 
“Fifteen years ago, when we talked about independence, I remember at home my family would say, ‘That’s Utopia,’” Venturós tells POLITICO in her office. “Okay, it was utopian 15 years ago, but who would have believed back then that right now we would be talking about a genuine separation of the Catalan institutions and Catalan people from the Spanish state?”
The CUP is part of an eclectic front of secessionist parties that, following elections in September 2015, have been both governing Catalonia and pursuing a so-called “roadmap” towards independence. The other partner in the alliance is Junts pel Sí (Together for Yes), itself a coalition of the center-right Catalan European Democratic Party (PDECat) and the Catalan Republican Left (ERC).
These separatists treated last year’s regional election as a plebiscite on independence. When Junts pel Sí won that vote but fell short of a majority in the 135-seat Catalan parliament, the CUP lent its 10 seats as support, but without formally entering the government. Together, these parties claimed their parliamentary majority gave them a mandate to push unilaterally towards independence — although they only had 48 percent of the popular vote.
* * *
Berga is deep in the Catalan nationalist heartland, fertile ground for the CUP’s message. In last year’s regional election, pro-independence parties accounted for 77 percent of votes here, a figure that does not reflect the situation across the region, with polls showing Catalans to be divided down the middle on the issue.
Venturós, who is waiting to see if she must stand trial, says her decision to hang the flag during two election campaigns was a deliberate “act of disobedience.” She justifies it by pointing to a statement of intent approved by the separatist front in the regional parliament in November 2015, which declared that the independence process “will not be subordinate to the decisions of the Spanish state, in particular the Constitutional Court.”
“At some point — and it’s going to be quite soon — we’re going to have to carry out a massive act of civil disobedience in defiance of the Spanish state in the face of a right that is being denied to us,” she says. 
She is referring to the next major stop on the roadmap: a referendum on independence that the Catalan government is planning for the fall of 2017. It has invited the Spanish government of Mariano Rajoy to bless the vote, Scotland-style, but that is almost certain not to happen, meaning the referendum would be technically illegal. While its advocates insist that a referendum victory would trigger secession, Rajoy has deemed such a vote and the entire roadmap unlawful. “Without law there is no democracy,” he told the Senate in November. 
“Catalans have an alarm inside them which says, ‘In case of emergency, break the glass,’” says the author and journalist Enric Juliana, who is from the region.
“When things go badly, when the Spanish state fails Catalonia, [independence] becomes more imaginable for them.”
In recent years, Spain’s economic crisis and the institutional problems that accompanied it, such as a torrent of corruption scandals and voters’ loss of faith in their elites, have set that alarm ringing.
* * *
The Catalan independence movement, Juliana explains, is far from homogenous. There are those who have long believed in the need for a separate state; then there are those who have converted to the cause because of tensions with the rest of Spain over recent years; and a third, more calculating stratum sees the threat of independence as leverage in squeezing concessions from Madrid.
While many in the Junts pel Sí coalition are in the second and third categories, the CUP is firmly in the first. “Independence, socialism and feminism” are their guiding ideals and, unusually for a Spanish party, they have imposed on themselves strict moralistic guidelines, including four-year caps on the tenures of their leaders and frugal salary limits (Venturós receives only €1,400 of the €2,700 she is entitled to each month).
The CUP is also determined not to give ground on its principles. After last year’s regional election, the party stood firm on a promise not to support the continuation of Artur Mas of Junts pel Sí as Catalan regional premier and figurehead of the secessionist project. His economic liberalism and the corruption scandals surrounding his PDECat party (then known as Convergència) jarred with the CUP’s austere anti-capitalism. A last-ditch accord in January allowed Puigdemont to replace Mas, thus keeping the separatist front alive.
But while privatizations, spending cuts and graft scandals distance the CUP from its secessionist allies, there is consensus on the grievances driving the independence movement.
“We need independence because Catalonia pays a lot to the Spanish state and we get very little back,” says Rosa Prat, a Berga local who is walking past the town hall. “Independence would mean keeping that money here in Catalonia and things would improve a lot.”
It’s a common argument, based on the fact that industry-heavy Catalonia is Spain’s wealthiest region. Nationalists claim they pay €15 billion more each year to the central government than they receive back in investment; Madrid puts this figure at €8 billion.
Separatists believe the shortfall is visible in infrastructure such as Catalonia’s erratic rail network and its health care system. But they point to a broader failure on the part of the Spanish state to understand their culture and language.
One recent example of this was in October, when the Constitutional Court rolled back a Catalan ban on bullfighting which was introduced five years earlier, on the grounds that the region could not unilaterally decide such matters.
* * *
As the Berga flag controversy showed, the courts have become a battleground for the conflict between Catalonia and Madrid. Nationalists point to a litany of areas where political initiatives taken by their own regional parliament have been reversed by magistrates in Madrid, while unionists see a rogue region overstepping its powers. The most contentious instance of this was in 2010, when the Constitutional Court struck down several articles of a new statute granting increased powers to Catalonia, despite the fact the document had been approved by Catalans in a referendum and by the Spanish Congress.
For many, Rajoy’s conservative Popular Party, whose legal appeal had led to the ruling, thus enshrined its reputation as “anti-Catalan.” The episode also undermined the faith of many Catalans in Spanish institutions.
The judge Santiago Vidal is one of many Catalans who converted to the independence cause in the wake of the statute furor.
Since then, he has become a vocal and controversial figure in his own right. In 2015, he was suspended by the judiciary for having drawn up a draft constitution for an independent Catalan state. More recently, he has become a senator for ERC, the leftist partner in Junts pel Sí. He sees two potential problems for the independence movement: a failure to secure more than 50 percent support in the referendum being planned; and the “unpredictable character” of the CUP.
“From a democratic viewpoint, their role is unquestionable and legitimate,” Vidal tells POLITICO in his office in Madrid, a large independence flag hanging on the wall beside him. “But whether they are convenient and of practical help is quite another issue and the truth is, in many ways they don’t help.” 
He worries the CUP’s radicalism might tarnish the independence movement’s image on the international stage. “And nor does it help internally,” he adds. “Because it creates extra obstacles to the already difficult conditions surrounding the development of the roadmap — the process — in a calm, consensual way.” 
Tensions within the pro-independence front have become visible on several issues, most obviously the annual Catalan budget, where the CUP has been determined to prioritize social justice.
“Two things are happening in Catalonia at the same time,” says Juliana. “There’s the unrest and anger fueled by the economic crisis which feeds separatist feeling, but at the same time that feeds the internal tensions between the pro-independence parties.” 
In recent weeks, as Rajoy has embarked on his second term as prime minister, he has shown signs of wanting to take a less rigid approach to Catalonia. He has made a handful of what look like conciliatory appointments, including deploying deputy prime minister Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría to lead his government’s management of the Catalan issue. She has pledged “maximum willingness to intensify negotiations” and has started meeting with senior separatists.
But the independence movement is wary of this apparent change of tack, especially given that Madrid’s previous toughness has been such an effective recruiting weapon. In La Vanguardia newspaper, columnist Francesc-Marc Álvaro described it as “a way of playing for time to see if separatist feeling dips.”
Such initiatives certainly don’t impress the CUP, which is struggling to maintain its purist principles while inching closer to achieving what once looked like no more than a utopian dream.
Rudy Giuliani professed his desires out loud. Mitt Romney wooed the president-elect over frog legs at a three-star Michelin restaurant in Manhattan. Retired Gen. David Petraeus pleaded his case on national television. Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker, among a host of others, traipsed through the camera-filled lobby of Trump Tower.
ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson came in the back door (twice). He left as the nominee to be America’s top diplomat.
Donald Trump’s decision-making process for secretary of state — the cabinet post that he and his advisers felt was the most important one — played out much as his campaign had. It was messy. There were rival factions. Loyalty was paramount, until it wasn’t. Trump chaffed at the constraints of tradition. There were accusations of worry-worthy friendliness with Russia.
And all the drama unfolded on live TV — complete with a last-minute plot twist and a candidate no one initially saw coming.
“The Tillerson thing, I’m sort of in a fog about,” Giuliani told POLITICO on Tuesday. “I wasn’t really involved deeply in the process when that came along. I don’t know a lot about him. I knew about four or five of the others.”
Now the suspense continues with the next act being a confirmation battle on Capitol Hill. But the selection process itself — it was Trump’s second-highest-profile decision after selecting Mike Pence as his running mate this summer — is instructive for a president-elect who has never before held political office.
Simultaneously haphazard and deliberative, Trump had lots of inputs but the final output rested ultimately with a man who has said for decades he is guided more by his instincts than anything else.
“He’s like a judge who listens to input from everybody and then issues his verdict. And then there’s no discussion, no dissent,” said one senior transition aide.
That’s what happened with Tillerson.
When Trump and Tillerson met in Trump Tower on Dec. 6, “they hit it off” immediately, as one transition official put it — two men who have made billion-dollar deals and boast the bona fides of having run multinational companies.
“He’s totally the Trump M.O. Strong guy,” this official said. “As soon as he met him, he told people that Tillerson is the kind of guy that walks in a room and commands respect. Liked Romney. Liked Rudy. But Tillerson was a stronger guy. He liked his strength.”
Added another adviser, “He liked the outsized, Texan, can-do swagger.”
Tillerson would be the presumptive pick within days and the official one within a week.
But it had been a long process to get there. Within days of the election, Giuliani was publicly pining for the job and has since confirmed that he turned down two other cabinet posts. Quickly, stories surfaced about Giuliani’s out-of-office international business dealings and speechmaking.
“I told them to vet me, and nothing came out that showed any conflict, any irregularity,” Giuliani recalled. “That part of the process, where people speculated we had done improper things, bothered me a lot. That really annoyed me.”
Giuliani had been Trump’s most steadfast supporter in the darkest hours of the campaign, going on the Sunday shows to defend Trump after a 2005 tape emerged of him bragging about grabbing women unwantedly by the genitals and getting away with it because he was a star.
But the business dealings — and Trump’s reported unhappiness of Giuliani’s public dismissal of any post other than State — opened the door to other possibilities.
“He felt some loyalty issues over Rudy and it was painful,” said one person close to Trump who spoke with him during the search process.
On Nov. 19, ten days after Trump won the election, Romney traveled to Trump’s golf course in Bedminster, N.J., for a meeting that, by all accounts, went extremely well. Trump’s team might have initially liked the symbolism of Romney paying homage to a president-elect whom he had opposed all the way through the election, but after the meeting, Romney quickly vaulted into serious consideration.
“He’s really, really good at storylines, at pushing storylines,” said the person close to Trump. “Romney was like Omarosa coming back in the second season of The Apprentice. This was a fun thing to discuss.”
Inside the campaign, two competing factions developed. Romney was the preferred pick of Reince Priebus, Trump’s incoming chief of staff, as well as Vice President-elect Mike Pence, according to transition officials. But those from Trump’s campaign itself — led publicly by former campaign manager Kellyanne Conway and privately by Steve Bannon — were in the anyone-but-Romney camp.
Dissent bubbled up by Thanksgiving, as Newt Gingrich and Mike Huckabee, two early Trump backers, went public in opposition. Then Conway said in television interviews that Sunday that selecting Romney would lead Trump’s supporters to “feel betrayed.”
“It’s just breathtaking in scope and intensity the type of messages I have received from all over the country,” Conway said of the opposition to Romney. While Conway said she was speaking on behalf of Trump’s voters, she was also voicing the internal concerns of some of the Trump’s own staff.
Trump felt trapped, according to transition officials and others, as he set up meetings with Petraeus, Corker and Romney again in the last week of November. It was then that Giuliani says he withdrew from the sweepstakes — albeit in secret.
“I would have taken the State job if it were nice and easy and I was the only candidate and it all happened very smoothly. I didn’t want it strongly enough to be in competition for it,” Giuliani said.
He submitted a letter of withdrawal dated Nov. 29 — the same day Trump and Romney dined together in New York. The letter didn’t go public until last Friday.
“They were telling people that I was in the running and I allowed them to do that so they could have some cover. They didn’t want to be rushed into making the choice,” Giuliani said, adding that the only people that he knew were aware of the letter were Trump, Priebus, Bannon, and Trump’s influential son-in-law, Jared Kushner.
Romney, meanwhile, was doing everything he could, effusively praising Trump after their Jean Georges dinner as “enlightening” and “engaging.” “He did something I tried to do and was unsuccessful in,” Romney told reporters that night.
The next day, on Nov. 30, Condoleezza Rice met with Pence in Washington D.C., as the former secretary of state — who only a month before the election had called for Trump to drop out —was emerging a surprise influencer.
Rice and former Defense Secretary Bob Gates, who met with Trump on Dec. 2 in New York, both recommended Tillerson be considered as secretary of state, sources said. (The person close to Trump, however, noted, “This guy was on the radar screen earlier than that.”) Gates knew Tillerson not just as a business leader but because both had served as president of the Boy Scouts of America.
That weekend, Trump formally expanded the list again, setting up meetings with Tillerson, retired Admiral James Stavridis and former Ford CEO Alan Mulally. As one Trump official told POLITICO at the time, “There’s got to be someone out there that can dazzle and wow. I just don’t think we’ve found that person.”
It happened Tuesday with Tillerson, as the wheels were soon set in motion for his selection.
A top political concern — especially amid accusations that Russia hacked the emails of a top Hillary Clinton aide and the Democratic Party to help Trump — was the ExxonMobil CEO’s close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. As the final line of Tillerson’s official biography on the ExxonMobil website reads, “In 2013, he was awarded the Order of Friendship by Vladimir Putin, president of the Russian Federation.”
And as Tillerson joined the short list and then became the front-runner last weekend, even Republicans were raising questions about his relationship to Russia. “I don’t know what Mr. Tillerson’s relationship with Vladimir Putin was,” influential Sen. John McCain said Saturday on Fox News. “But I’ll tell you it is a matter of concern to me.”
Trump — never one to be dictated by his detractors —pushed ahead quickly. By Monday, it was a done deal. The formal announcement came Tuesday.
Gates and Rice, who have counted Tillerson’s company among their clients, were among the first and most prominent voices in the GOP foreign policy establishment to praise Tillerson when he was picked.
“Everyone knows this is going to be our toughest confirmation but I don’t think Trump was going to change his mind at the end of the day,” said a transition official.
Later on Tuesday, Trump made a surprise visit to the lobby of his Manhattan skyscraper. There, he stood side-by-side with another visitor. It was Kayne West.
Tillerson was still nowhere to be seen.
Annie Karni, Eliana Johnson, Josh Gerstein and Jake Sherman contributed to this report.
LONDON — Boris Johnson risked incurring the wrath of his boss, Prime Minister Theresa May, Tuesday by making fun of her dress sense.
The foreign secretary, speaking to diplomats and journalists at a drinks reception at Lancaster House in central London, made light of the recent “trousergate” spat, in which former cabinet minister Nicky Morgan criticized May for appearing in a photo shoot wearing leather trousers worth almost £1,000.
After Morgan’s criticism, she was banned from Number 10 by the prime minister’s chief of staff Fiona Hill.
Johnson on Tuesday attempted to make light of the row.
“Last time I spoke to so many ambassadors, I’m afraid a rather curious account of what I said emerged,” he began, referring to leaked reports from a previous meeting which claimed he had privately admitted supporting free movement in the EU.
Johnson added: “I’m in favor of free drinks, which you are all enjoying tonight, but I’m not necessarily in favor of freedom of movement.
“I have a very simple message for you all, which is that this government recognizes — particularly now — that Britain cannot turn its back on the world. We understand that after June 23 we have to be more energetic, more outward looking, more engaged with the world and you all, than ever before.
“So I would say to the great ambassadors and high commissioners here tonight, that when you come to write your truthful and accurate diptels [diplomatic telegrams], I hope you will recall some of the enthusiasm and confidence of this new government.
“We managed to export Nigel Farage to America, but not in a diplomatic fashion. We are so cosmopolitan that we drink more Champagne, buy more German cars than anyone else and our wonderful prime minister wears lederhosen.”

STRASBOURG — Antonio Tajani, a former spokesperson for Silvio Berlusconi, was elected as the European People’s Party candidate for the upcoming presidency of the European Parliament Tuesday evening, setting the stage for what could be a bitter fight for the institution’s most high-profile job.
He won 94 votes in the first of three possible rounds, after which the other candidates withdrew. Ireland’s Mairead McGuinness won 57 votes, with France’s Alain Lamassoure winning 38 and Slovenia’s Alojz Peterle on 18.
Lamassoure told his fellow lawmakers to give their support to Tajani.
“Tajani is a real figure in the EPP,” said Andreas Schwab, a German MEP. “He is extremely loyal and won because of the fact that all MEPs know him personally.”
Manfred Weber, the leader of the EPP, said in a statement released after the vote that Tajani would be a “bridge-builder” between the political forces “inside our house and a strong voice outside.”
But some observers questioned whether the controversial candidate would indeed be able to build bridges, given that many will look askance at a Berlusconi ally. And while Tajani had the backing of the south, MEPs from northern, eastern and central Europe were more divided.
“If they had been smart, they’d have gone for McGuinness,” a Socialist MEP said. “She would have been harder to fend off for us.”
It was the first time in the Parliament’s history that the largest party in the assembly held a primary to choose its presidential candidate.
A former Italian air force officer and journalist for public broadcaster RAI and newspaper Il Giornale, Tajani promised “a change of pace” if he won the presidency. Four-times elected an MEP, the 63-year-old led Berlusconi’s Forza Italia delegation to the European Parliament from 1999 to 2008 and then served as commissioner for transport and for industry and entrepreneurship.
“We need a pragmatic and forward-looking Parliament,” Tajani said on presenting his candidacy, promising to perform the job as “speaker of the house” if he wins.
However, Tajani could suffer from divided loyalties among Italian MEPs because the Socialist candidate for the presidency is Gianni Pittella.
Tajani’s appeal across the house is limited by his association with Berlusconi and his role as transport commissioner overseeing emissions legislation that was not robust enough to prevent the Dieselgate scandal.
The contest, triggered by the departure of Martin Schulz of the Socialists & Democrats, will pitch Tajani against Pittella, who promised to scrap a “grand coalition” with the EPP that enabled European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and Schulz to push through crucial EU legislation. The EPP wants the S&D to honor a 2014 power-sharing deal for the EPP to take over the presidency in 2017.
The other groups’ candidates include Belgian MEP Helga Stevens from the European Conservatives and Reformists and Eleonora Forenza, an Italian MEP from the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
On Tuesday, several sources in Parliament said Tajani had gained a lot of support from southern European states, including Spain and Portugal.
“The Spaniards always considered Tajani as their commissioner,” a Parliament official said. “He helped them a lot, speaks Spanish and has even a street with his name in the city of Giron.”
Another Parliament official said Tajani “never interrupted his relationship with the Parliament when he was a commissioner and would hold a meeting with MEPs every week.”
However, Tajani’s victory infuriated some in the Parliament, who saw it as a trick from the strong Italian group in the EPP.
“This is crazy!” said one official, “after his involvement in Dieselgate, we are electing a man who’s tied to Berlusconi.”
Support from other groups isn’t a given, either. An ECR official said his group, the other main conservative alliance, would vote for Stevens in the first round. It is unlikely, the official said, that the group would vote for an EPP candidate in the second round.
Several Parliament sources said Guy Verhofstadt, the outspoken leader of the ALDE group, hasn’t yet decided on an election strategy for his group. But some say he might declare his candidacy for the elections late in the process.
Although the dominant groups of MEPs traditionally strike a leadership deal before the official election, such an agreement is unlikely to happen this time. At the last election, in 2014, Schulz secured a second term in one round with the support of 409 of the 612 MEPs who voted.
MEPs will elect a president by secret ballot on January 17.
Under parliamentary rules, to be elected president a candidate must win an absolute majority of the votes cast, which means 50 percent plus one. The Parliament is comprised of 751 members, so 376 votes are needed to win the presidency.
Currently, the EPP holds 216 seats, while the S&D has 189, the ECR has 74 and ALDE has 69. Smaller parties and non-affiliated MEPs make up the balance. Allegiances tend to break along party lines, but also nationally with Germany having 96 MEPs, followed by France with 74, and Italy and the U.K. with 73 each.
Several hours before Tuesday’s election, there was no clear majority on any one candidate and “all the delegations were split,” said Philippe Juvin, a French MEP who voted for Lamassoure.
Tajani and McGuiness appeared to be the candidates with the highest cross-party and cross-delegation backing, even if that was limited. But several EPP sources said the German delegation hadn’t endorsed anyone by a clear majority on Tuesday. Instead, at their regular delegation meeting on Monday, one-third of German EPP MEPs voted for McGuiness and the other two-thirds for Tajani and Lamassoure.
“We have no common line and no voting recommendation,” said Ingeborg Grässle, a German MEP.
Thousands of Poles took to the streets on Tuesday to mark the 35th anniversary of the declaration of martial law by the former communist regime — in a vivid demonstration of all that divides Poland these days.
Opponents of the government walked through Warsaw, as well as other Polish cities, and then gathered in front of the headquarters of the ruling Law and Justice party, a building that also houses the office of Jarosław Kaczyński, the party’s leader and Poland’s most powerful politician. And the government’s backers staged their own smaller demonstration in central Warsaw.
The dueling demonstrations bring home that both sides of Poland’s bitter political chasm have roots in the Solidarity labor union that the communists tried to crush when they sent the military into the streets on December 13, 1981. The two are bitter enemies now, and both compared the other to the long vanquished communists. There is such deep disagreement that the government and the opposition couldn’t come up with acceptable wording for a joint parliamentary declaration on the anniversary of martial law.
“Today the authorities, like those 35 years ago, are attacking us, taking away our freedoms,” Mateusz Kijowski, the leader of the Committee for the Defense of Democracy, an organization that has organized numerous anti-government protests, told the anti-government crowd in Warsaw.
Kaczyński, in turn, addressed his own supporters. “They’re trying to compare the current government to those [communist] ones, they’re comparing the cleaning up of Poland to martial law,” he complained.
Since taking power last year, Law and Justice has attracted domestic and international criticism over its moves to control public media, purge state-controlled companies, and bring the country’s top constitutional court to heel.
Parliament on Tuesday was due to vote on yet another bill on the Constitutional Tribunal — as earlier attempts have been declared unconstitutional by the tribunal, verdicts the government hasn’t recognized. Parliament is also finishing work on a new law on public gatherings that has been criticized by civil rights groups and the opposition for favoring government and religious organizations in issuing permits for demonstrations.
On Tuesday, Kaczyński also called for restructuring the way opposition parties function. “From our side, there will certainly be efforts to bring order to the activities of the opposition,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled Tuesday that a new law regulating the public media is partly unconstitutional. The government refuses to accept its rulings.
The European Parliament is due to debate the situation in Poland on Wednesday, while the European Commission is continuing to put pressure on Warsaw, which has waved aside criticism from Brussels.
A new opinion poll by the CBOS organization released this week found Law and Justice with the support of 36 percent of those surveyed, while the two leading opposition parties together had only 30 percent.
America’s closest overseas allies struggled Tuesday to understand and digest Donald Trump’s emerging foreign policy team.
Rex Tillerson’s move from chief of the world’s most powerful oil company ExxonMobil to nominee to become chief diplomat of the world’s sole superpower elicited a collective gasp in Europe, summed up by the venerable, left-of-center French newspaper Le Monde: “Uncertainty adds itself to the unknown,” it wrote, reporting that Trump, “whose vision of foreign affairs doesn’t stop raising questions … nominated a neophyte to head American diplomacy.”
On a Continent that never fell out of love with Barack Obama or hid its preference for Hillary Clinton, the rise of Donald Trump — followed by the appointment of a hawkish general at the Pentagon, James “Mad Dog” Mattis, and now in the choice of Tillerson, a Texas oil man who’s friendly to Russia for secretary of state — continues to send trembles across European borders.
The Trump team’s style recalls the George W. Bush presidency, with its own Texas swagger and prized role for the military, which European elites don’t recall fondly. Barack Obama is appreciated for his softer touch here, but also criticized for his reluctance to engage in the world’s problems more directly — whether in Syria or in response to Vladimir Putin’s aggressions in Ukraine.
Trump is already showing he will be very different, though few seem to know precisely how. On substance, the incoming president elicits as much puzzlement as worry. Whether in Brussels, Paris, Berlin or London, senior officials say they don’t have any clear idea where Trump and his team will go on NATO, Russia sanctions or the Middle East. And in Eastern Europe, some expressed a sense of whiplash with the choice of Mattis, who is seen as tough on Russia, offset by Tillerson, who has a reputation as a friend of Putin and opponent of sanctions.
The official reactions were predictably cautious, with government leaders not wanting to get ahead of events or make premature pronouncements. Still, in conversations in capitals across the Continent, and in the initial media coverage of Trump’s pick for secretary of state, it was easy to discern anxiety mixed in with a wait-and-see attitude as the president-elect’s words get translated into actions.
“President-elect Donald Trump, once more, surprised the public with his choice,” Jürgen Hardt, the German government’s coordinator for transatlantic cooperation, told RND newspapers on Tuesday afternoon.
Hardt, like many commentators, noted Tillerson’s long-standing business dealings with Russia’s President Putin. “Personal relations to the Russian president are neither a bad thing per se, nor an indicator of quality,” Hardt said. “Just like the American public, we now expect that past loyalties to his former employer won’t play a role in his new occupation.”
It was also clear that Trump was already rewriting expectations of American foreign policy, against the backdrop of his own highly unconventional, anti-institutional approach to remaking Washington.
In Paris, for instance, one government advisor noted that the choice of Tillerson, as a businessman, might be seen as a relatively moderate pick compared to the hawkish military men that Trump has favored for other senior posts, including to run the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security and atop the National Security Council.
“As a businessman he could prove more realistic than the generals,” the government advisor said.
One senior French diplomat said the government would almost certainly continue the wait-and-see approach, allowing Trump and his team to acclimate to the hard realities of governing. “There’s a cynical part of diplomacy which is to wait until there are actual acts or policies announced,” the diplomat said. “We won’t see what’s really going on before they actually take over.”
The diplomat said that much of the talk about taking a new approach toward Russia was detached from the reality of world affairs, and noted that the Obama administration, despite tensions with Putin, has continued talking to Moscow all along. “The question is not whether to talk or not but what do you talk about?” the diplomat said. “On Syria are the U.S. and Russia going to bomb together? When they start talking about [Syrian strongman] Bashar [al-Assad], do they simply both agree he can stay?”
While Brexit and Trump’s upset win have given the U.K. and the U.S. a shared sense of political upheaval, British officials said they were still prepared for potential disagreements, including over economic sanctions against Russia, which Tillerson has criticized but most European governments strongly support. 
Senior U.K. government sources told POLITICO Tuesday they were exploring what the nominee for secretary of state has said in the past “and what it all means.”
“We need to look and decide what is rhetoric and what will end up as policy,” one Whitehall official said. “There isn’t a huge amount of concern. These people have said a lot of things, but you’ve got to judge them when they are in office. What they have said doesn’t change our policy.”
London’s starting position is that regardless of what Tillerson has said in the past, Trump will determine U.S. foreign policy. On this score, the government of Theresa May has been reassured by the “softening” they have seen in his public comments since the presidential campaign.
The British foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, has spoken to people in Trump’s circle, including Vice President-elect Mike Pence, former New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New Jersey governor Chris Christie since Trump’s surprising victory last month — and according to British officials also come away reassured. 
Pence, in particular, is seen in the Foreign Office as key moderating influence. The incoming vice president voiced his agreement when Johnson spelled out the importance of the U.K.-U.S. relationship in tackling ISIS in Syria and standing up to Russian aggression.
However, there is an acceptance that despite its vote to exit the EU last June, the U.K. may now have more in common with other European capitals on foreign policy than Washington — particularly on sanctions against Russia.
While it is remains from clear how much — or even if — relations between the U.S. and Russia will truly improve during Trump’s presidency, there seemed to be a dawning realization in Europe that the administration taking shape was perhaps the most pro-Big Business White House in history.
On that front, some of Mr. Tillerson’s fellow titans in the oil business praised his selection.
Tillerson is “widely respected, is a person who knows how to listen and find compromises” and his appointment is “positive,” Claudio De Scalzi, the chief executive of the Italian, state-controlled oil company Eni, said in New York according to Ansa, the Italian news agency.
In 2013, Putin awarded the “Friendship of Russia” to Tillerson, and Paolo Scaroni, the director general of Eni, at the same ceremony.
In Moscow, predictably perhaps, there was effusive praise for the president-elect’s selection.
“The head of Exxon, Tillerson is Trump’s choice for the post of secretary of state,” Alexey Pushkov, a Russian senator, posted  on Twitter. “He has worked a lot with Russia. This choice confirms Trump’s seriousness.”
In a follow-up post, Pushkov, who was chief of the Russian Parliament’s foreign affairs committee before joining the Senate, wrote: “McCain, Rubio and Co. are opponents of Trump. That’s why their efforts to derail the appointment of Tillerson played in his favor. Yes, and Trump is no coward.”
Pierre Briançon in Paris, Tom McTague in London, Janosch Delcker in Berlin, and Cynthia Kroet, Jacopo Barigazzi and Quentin Ariès in Brussels contributed reporting to this article.
STRASBOURG — The European Parliament suspended payment of some €90,000 to a think tank linked to Nigel Farage’s UKIP because of suspicions that it obtained donations via improper means, according to a document obtained by POLITICO.
In the latest of a series of financial setbacks to hit Euroskeptic parties and associated bodies over allegations of misuse of public funds, the UKIP-linked Institute for Direct Democracy in Europe (IDDE) could be deprived of €88,924.58 in funding due to the suspension approved by Parliament’s leaders.
Last month, the Parliament sought to recover €173,000 in funding from the Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe (ADDE) group of MEPs, of which UKIP is the dominant member, and suspended payment of €501,000 in grants. The Parliament has also sought to recover €339,000 from Marine Le Pen, leader of France’s National Front.
Several other MEPs, including Marine Le Pen’s father Jean-Marie, three others in the National Front and former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, have also faced requests to reimburse money to parliament. Le Pen’s lawyer said she would appeal the reimbursement order, and that he expected parliament to move to recover funds by docking her pay and expenses, as it did in the case of her father.
This clawback of European Parliament cash by President Martin Schulz and Manfred Weber, leader of the center-right European People’s Party, is the first crackdown against populist groups that use Parliament money to fund Euroskeptic causes.
A senior parliamentary source said top MEPs meeting in Strasbourg this week had decided to suspend grants to the Institute and cut off funds for the Organization for European Interstate Cooperation (OEIC), another Euroskeptic body. It was not immediately possible to verify the claim against the OEIC nor to determine how much money was involved.
A representative for ADDE said Parliament’s accusation was baseless, while Farage has described such moves against UKIP and its affiliates as “victimization” of Euroskeptic parties.
In the case of IDDE, which describes itself as a think tank, the Parliament is concerned about how it obtained private donations. In order to qualify for grants from the Parliament, groups and foundations must prove they are able to raise a minimum amount of funding from private sources.
Checks by the Parliament’s finance chiefs on IDDE funding “revealed serious concerns about the qualification of the donations as ‘own resources’ — a criterion that needs to be fulfilled in order to receive funding by the European Parliament,” read the document signed by the Parliament’s top staffer, Secretary General Klaus Welle.
“It is also doubtful the related expenses paid to the donors or to companies with close links to the donors can be considered eligible expenditure,” said the document, which was dated December 5 and titled “Note to the members of the bureau.”
The finance department suspects the Institute accepted donations from firms and individuals, only to pay the money back using cash from the Parliament by awarding them contracts that far exceeded the amount they had donated.
In one such example, the document alleged that Kristina Pentti, executive director of the Libera Foundation in Helsinki, had donated €12,000 to IDDE. In 2015, Libera received three payments worth a total of €20,000 from IDDE in order to carry out unspecified work.
Another example mentioned in the document involves a firm called Jalte Holding, which donated €10,000 to IDDE while its director Jorg Altenburg gave €5,000. A web design firm, whose director is Sander van den Broek, donated €5,000. IDDE later awarded a €30,000 contract to a firm called Quid Novi whose director, Eline van den Broek-Altenburg, is listed on Facebook as being the sister of Sander van den Broek and the wife of Jorg Altenburg.
The document said the Parliament was considering bringing the case to the attention of OLAF, the EU’s anti-fraud watchdog. It was only suspending payments and not seeking to recover more than €580,000 already paid to the foundation in recent years because of the “risk that it might be impossible to recover the paid amounts due.”
The Euroskeptic parties targeted argue that they are being persecuted for practices that are no different from those of more mainstream groups.
Mischaël Modrikamen, vice president of ADDE, said he was not aware of all the details of the probe into the UKIP-related Institute, but added that both the his parliamentary group and the Institute itself planned to appeal Parliament’s decisions. There was “no deal” between the Institute and donors to set up a system of kickbacks, and all contracts awarded were approved by Parliament’s compliance office, he said.
“There is a desire to liquidate them [Euroskeptic groups], to make them pay for Brexit,” Modrikamen said. “But I have never seen such disdain and violation of the rules and total absence of any normal process.”
A major overhaul of the European Parliament’s 297-page “rules of procedure” on Tuesday may have slipped under the radar, given that few people outside the Parliament take an interest in the regulations that MEPs must abide by as they go about their day-to-day business.
But while most changes are relatively minor, a number of them could alter the way the Parliament works when they come into effect next month.
Here are some of the most interesting updates.
MEPs have asked the Commission around 8,600 questions since the beginning of the year on issues including Digital Commissioner Günther Oettinger’s controversial comments on Chinese diplomats and the importance of circus art.
Often used by MEPs to give the appearance of activity, written questions are widely regarded as a waste of time and money — not least by Commission officials tasked with responding to them.
From next month, however, MEPs can submit a maximum of 20 questions “over a rolling period of three months.” A new type of question has also been created, which can trigger a plenary debate but must have the support of a committee, a political group or around 40 MEPs before being submitted.
After revelations this year that Neelie Kroes failed to declare her directorship of a company while she served as a European commissioner, and that Miguel Arias Cañete, the current energy and climate commissioner, had family ties to a shell company in Panama, rules are being tightened on business conflicts.
The Legal Affairs Committee will now dissect the financial declarations submitted by commissioners before they take office to ensure the statements are “accurate and complete.” If the committee discovers any problems, it can demand the commissioner-designate submit more information. MEPs can also demand the commissioner “renounce the financial interests in question” and, if they don’t, conclude he or she “is unable to exercise his or her function.”
A new rule has been introduced to prevent MEPs from engaging “in paid professional lobbying directly linked to the Union decision-making process.”
A tightening of current rules, the change doesn’t ban second jobs, which some MEPs had demanded, which means the Parliament’s chief Brexit negotiator, Guy Verhofstadt, can keep his  job on the board of investment firm Sofina.
MEPs will also be banned from receiving gifts, but only if they’re “in exchange for specific behavior in the scope of the member’s parliamentary work.”
As POLITICO noted recently, so-called trilogues, where most important negotiations happen these days, are where democracy goes to die. Trilogues are generally faster but critics charge that this approach to lawmaking limits democratic oversight and undermines trust in EU institutions, as neither the Council nor the Parliament announces when these closed-door meetings take place or make public any of the documents from the sessions. The absence of a paper trail makes it almost impossible to know why or how decisions were taken.
In order to boost parliamentary oversight, new rules now mandate that if enough MEPs are worried about the direction that a committee is taking a draft law, they’ll be able to prevent that committee starting off-radar trilogue discussions with the other institutions by forcing a vote in plenary.
The updated rules also attempt to shine a light on what happens behind closed doors: MEPs who are in the room will now have to report back to their committees on the discussions and sensitive documents will have to be published.
The rules for fact-finding visits have been clarified to prevent them being treated as holidays by some MEPs.
From now on, if an MEP hails from the country the delegation is visiting, that MEP will have to pay for the trip themselves. MEPs will also have to write a “mission report” for the president of the Parliament to describe all the facts and solutions they found.
MEPs sometimes shout obscenities or wave flags in the plenary chamber to get attention. That sort of behavior, as well as the “unfurling of banners,” is now banned.
The president will now be able to prohibit an aggressive, flag-waving MEP from “representing the Parliament on an interparliamentary delegation … for up to one year.” That means no free trips to far-flung destinations such as Uruguay or Kenya.
A hangover from the 1980s when the Parliament had little legislative power, written declarations are a means by which MEPs flag the important issues that face their constituents.
The declarations have no legal and little political impact since they represent the opinions only of their authors and signatories. MEPs recently demanded, via declarations, the designation of a European Fruit Day as well as the promotion of more organic food in the Parliament’s canteens.
According to Swedish MEP Christofer Fjellner, who has campaigned for their elimination, declarations steal time from important legislative work. From next month, they will be gone.
MEPs regularly moan about lobbyists who refuse to show up at the hearings of special committees they’ve set up to investigate scandals such as LuxLeaks and Dieselgate.
From January, however, MEPs have a new weapon to compel lobbyists to show up: Those who don’t respond could lose their pass to the Parliament (and presumably would have to meet MEPs in cafes outside the building.)
MEPs also agreed that they will only meet lobbyists who are on the transparency register, which could prove problematic for the consultancies and companies that continue to resist signing up.
Correction: this article has been updated to reflect the creation of a new form of written question in addition to the existing type.
A revision of the EU’s budget rules was postponed until 2017 when Italy refused to give its approval at a meeting in Brussels Tuesday.
EU foreign and Europe ministers were hoping to back a change to the budget until 2020, but every country needs to support the move and Italy refuses to do so, saying that not enough cash is being earmarked for tackling the migration crisis.
“Italy is not as yet in a position to withdraw its reservation on the proposal,” said Maurizio Massari, Italy’s ambassador to the EU.
In September, the Commission proposed reviewing the EU’s budget rules — which date from 2013 — to add an extra €6 billion until 2020 for the establishment of a European coast guard, including €2.4 billion for job creation and youth programs, as well as the European Fund for Strategic Investments — the so-called Juncker fund — which aims to boost infrastructure and research spending.
However, Italy said the proposal did not do enough to tackle migration or reduce unemployment.
“We are very sorry” about Italy’s stance, said Miroslav Lajčák, the Slovak foreign minister, after the talks.
“There is nothing we can do at this point. We have to wait for Italy to withdraw its expectations,” added Lajčák, pointing out the extra €6 billion would make it “easier for the EU to react in a flexible way to unexpected needs.”
Several diplomats told POLITICO that amending the Council’s position to match Italy’s demands was “highly unlikely.”
Last month Italy abstained in a vote on the EU’s 2017 budget, arguing there was not enough funding dedicated to help Italy and other Mediterranean countries deal with the migration crisis.
Did Russia just put its man in the White House? Americans are furiously debating the question as intelligence reports leak, Donald Trump tweets his doubts and Congress vows to investigate.
As analysts who have spent years studying Russia’s influence campaigns, we’re confident the spooks have it mostly right: The Kremlin ran a sophisticated, multilayered operation that aimed to sow chaos in the U.S. political system, if not to elect Trump outright. But you don’t need a security clearance or a background in spycraft to come to that conclusion. All you need to do is open your eyes.
So how did Putin do it?
It wasn’t by hacking election machines or manipulating the results, as some have suggested. That would be too crude. The Kremlin’s canny operatives didn’t change votes; they won them, influencing voters to choose Russia’s preferred outcome by pushing stolen information at just the right time – through slanted, or outright false stories on social media. As we detail in our recent report, based on 30 months of closely watching Russia’s online influence operations and monitoring some 7,000 accounts, the Kremlin’s troll army swarmed the web to spread disinformation and undermine trust in the electoral system.
And America was just the latest target. These “active measures” are techniques Moscow has honed for decades, continually adapting its formula to changing technology and new circumstances. All of it is in service of Putin’s grand strategy of breaking up the European Union and NATO from the inside out — without even firing a shot.
Having shattered many Americans’ faith in their democracy, Russia now feels emboldened. And with major elections coming up in France, Germany and the Netherlands, you can bet that Putin’s work is not done. Here’s how he does it:
1. Pick close contests: In both the British referendum and U.S. presidential votes, Russia happened upon an almost perfectly divided electorate. It took a nudge of just a few percentage points in each case to achieve victory.
The final Brexit tally came in at 51.9 percent “Leave” and 48.1 percent “Remain” — so Russia needed only to turn or rally roughly 157,000 votes across the United Kingdom to deliver a major blow to the EU.
The U.S. election may consist of a far larger number of votes, but the system, we now know, can be gamed even more easily. Russian social media influence efforts needed to pump up Trump and tear down Clinton in just four key states. Trump won Wisconsin and Michigan by less than 1 percent and Florida and Pennsylvania by less than 1.5 percent. Could Russia’s hacks of Democrats and the resulting media storm cost the Clinton campaign seven to eight thousand swing votes or repress an equivalent turnout in Wisconsin? Many will immediately point out it’s impossible to prove Russia ‘caused’ a Trump victory, and they are correct. But what if we find Russian influence correlated with preferable voting outcomes in Brexit, the U.S. and across up to more than a half dozen elections across Europe?
2. Know your audience: In 2008 and 2012, Barack Obama’s strategists conducted a surgical influence effort, mapping key votes down to the neighborhood level. Russian operatives have borrowed from this playbook and targeted audiences vulnerable to their influence across the West – largely supporters of the “alt-right” and others angered by the perceived effects of globalization, immigration, terrorism and economic hardship. In the U.S., Russia’s blending of semi-overt and covert social media accounts use common hashtags and phrases to create what appear to be conservative Trump supporters or alt-right cheerleaders. These social media personas, whose bios are littered with words like “country,” “Christian,” “America” and “military,” then push pro-Trump hashtags loaded with skewed and fake news at American audiences, helping generate organic Trump support and distrust of the U.S. government. These accounts tweet hashtags and keywords in unison at specified time intervals and carry odd follower relationships fitting inorganic, mathematical patterns. In one example from July, two Russian propaganda outlets pushed a fake news story claiming that Incirlik Air Base in Turkey – a facility used by NATO — was overrun by terrorists, using the hashtags #trumppence16 and #benghazi to attract a pro-Trump audience.
3. Start early and be persistent: As early as August 2015, Russian English-language outlets and their social media allies were promoting Trump — at a time when the idea that he could actually win seemed a distant fantasy. And they kept going throughout the Republican primary, surging at key times. Put differently, Russia didn’t just intervene in the general election against Hillary Clinton — it helped him defeat his anti-Moscow GOP rivals, too. The United Kingdom observed a similar campaign. Dating back to the earliest parts of 2015, Russian media outlets incited fear of immigration and promoted Brexit advocate Nigel Farage’s accusations of American manipulation to foster popular support for the British to leave the EU.
4. Try everything. Stick with what works: Today’s Russian propagandists borrow from the playbook of
their Soviet forefathers. RT and Sputnik News push political, financial, social and calamitous messages stoking fear and conspiracy into the information environment of any democratic audience suspicious or outwardly hostile to Russia. Since the summer of 2015, we’ve observed Russian messaging pushed to groups across the spectrum, the left and the right politically. Anarchists, anti-capitalists, white supremacists and anti-government militias have all received Russian English-language directed propaganda through the targeted application of bots and person-to-person engagement from what appear to be fellow Americans with strong Russian leanings.
Some Russian campaigns didn’t work. Stories predicting doom from climate change or nuclear war have gained little to no traction in the U.S. Bernie Sanders supporters didn’t gravitate to Russian propaganda in substantial numbers, either. But when Russia’s digital propagandists find a message that resonates among a disgruntled American audience, they refocus their efforts to exploit where they find success –predominantly among conservative audiences seeking damaging information against Clinton. Sputnik News spun an innocuous email from a WikiLeaks dump into a nonsensical ailment known as “decision fatigue,” a fake story further amplified by an Infowars’ video viewed millions of times. Stories implying the U.S. election results were hacked or rigged led RT and Sputnik news election coverage in the final weeks before voting – a narrative amplified by Donald Trump himself. Russia’s messaging narrowed and improved as the U.S. election approached and was so effective that even Trump fell victim to Russian propaganda, citing a falsely attributed email story hosted by Sputnik news.
5. Hack and release: Russia’s synchronization of hacking and influence operations provides a one-two punch for manipulating democratic audiences. In the old days, Soviet Kompromat, or compromising materials, were used by KGB agents to encourage Western officials and public figures to speak and act in ways more amenable to Soviet objectives, via threats to expose criminality, corruption or sexual misbehavior. Today, Russia’s hacking teams, two of which security researchers have dubbed Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, conduct wide-ranging kompromat hacking into thousands of current and former Western government officials, media personalities and national security experts. Russia then strategically releases true, manipulated true, and false information to data dumpsites such as WikiLeaks. These “information nukes” fuel Russian overt propaganda and supply dozens of fringe conspiratorial news sites. Russia’s cyber kompromat playbook appears to have a new target. Germany, the key remaining player in the EU, has already noted Russian hacks against its parliament in 2015, along with a sharp uptick in propaganda ahead of the country’s upcoming elections.
6. Use brute force to overwhelm adversaries: Soviet military doctrine employed the principle of mass to counter Western forces — employing three to four times the artillery of their enemies. Once the Soviets found a break in enemy lines, they’d exploit the breach, occupy a position in the rear area of the enemy and then fight from a defensive position. Today’s Russian social media influence operations employ a similar approach. After using hacked information to craft manipulated truths, Russia propagates and amplifies stories using automated bots. Series of accounts programmed to appear as members of the target audience comment, retweet and share breaking conspiracies at a dizzying pace, turning keyword hashtags into Twitter trends. When successful, this artificial volume entices mainstream media outlets to engage on the trending issue, further amplifying the Kremlin’s narrative. Even if the false or manipulated truth pushed by Russian bots is later proven false, the firehose of fake or manipulated news often drowns out the mainstream media’s efforts to correct the record. The net result is an information world in which Western electorates cannot distinguish fact from fiction, eroding the integrity of democratic institutions and the voters’ trust.
7. Win even when you lose. Russia would prefer that its chosen candidates be victorious, but losing is almost as good: Putin and company are happy just to foment chaos, confusion and doubt. It doesn’t even take much. The mere allegation that voter rolls in Illinois and Arizona had been hacked raised concerns of a rigged outcome, lending credibility to wild claims like those the Green Party’s Jill Stein leveled in Wisconsin. Even the Electoral College, historically a rubber stamp, is becoming another partisan battlefield. And now, with many Americans embittered by the nastiest election in memory and squabbling over the very question of Russian meddling, Putin can sit back and admire his handiwork. Because either way, he’s already won.
Clint Watts is Robert A. Fox Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia and senior fellow at the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at the George Washington University.
Andrew Weisburd is senior fellow at the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at the George Washington University.
Kanye West met with President-elect Donald Trump briefly at Trump Tower on Tuesday for what Trump described as a casual chat between old friends.
“Just friends, just friends and he’s a good man,” Trump said as the pair stood before reporters. “We’ve been friends for a long time.”
When asked what they discussed, Trump responded: “We discussed life.”
West ignored questions, including about whether he would perform at the inauguration.
“I just want to take a picture right now,” he said.
The two embraced before West left.
“You take care of yourself, I’ll see you soon,” Trump could be heard saying.
West was recently hospitalized after abruptly canceling his Saint Pablo Tour. In one of his last concerts before calling off the tour, West said he had not voted, but that he would have supported Trump if he had.
West has previously discussed, perhaps jokingly, a run for president of his own in 2020.
“I don’t have views on politics, I just have a view on humanity,” West said when discussing the possibility.
Macedonia’s Social Democrats refused Tuesday to acknowledge a conservative victory in Sunday’s parliamentary election, citing “irregularities” before and during the vote, AFP reported.
The opposition party said the irregularities “influenced the final result of the vote.”
On Monday, the country’s electoral commission said the VMRO party of former Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski had received 38.06 percent of the vote, putting it just ahead of the Social Democrats, led by Zoran Zaev, on 36.69 percent. Both parties claimed to have won the election Sunday night.

The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which deployed 340 observers, said there were “struggles with the preparations of the vote,” but added that election day was “generally well-administered and proceeded without major incidents.”
Gruevski, who ruled the country for almost a decade, stepped down in January this year and was replaced by a caretaker government.
The humanitarian disaster in Aleppo is “heartbreaking,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at a joint press conference with French President François Hollande in Berlin Tuesday, in which both leaders pledged to try to protect civilians.
More than 120,000 people are trapped in the Syrian city, as President Bashar al-Assad’s forces advance into the last remaining rebel-held areas.
Pro-government forces have carried out at least 82 execution-style killings of civilians in Aleppo in recent days, according to the U.N.
France and Germany will do everything they can to allow the evacuation of the citizens of Aleppo, Hollande said Tuesday.
“The [U.N.] Security Council is blocked, because the Russians have imposed their veto,” he said. “We now have a humanitarian situation that is unacceptable.”

Humanitarian aid must be made accessible, Hollande said, warning that Russia would be held responsible if it continues to block aid to the besieged city.
Merkel said the situation “is disastrous, it’s heartbreaking.”
“We’re trying on every level, and France is of course as well, in the Security Council to make sure that there’s an improvement in the situation for the people, that civilians are protected, that humanitarian aid can be delivered, that medical attention can be given, and that those people delivering aid are protected, ” Merkel said.

Hollande acknowledged that the international community has been too slow to react politically, and expressed regret at the lack of response to Assad’s use of chemical weapons.
The West must now react on a humanitarian front, Holland said, adding: “It is our duty to act. And we will act.”
Nadia Murad and Lamiya Aji Bashar, two Yazidi women who highlighted the plight of survivors of horrific abuse by Islamic State, on Tuesday collected the European Parliament’s 2016 Sakharov Prize for freedom of thought.
After escaping sexual enslavement by ISIL in Iraq they became spokespeople for other women affected by sexual violence and for the persecuted Yazidi minority, the Parliament said in a statement ahead of Tuesday’s ceremony in Strasbourg.
Murad and Bashar on Monday said they were “grateful and honored” to receive the award, but said the EU can and must do more to protect Yazidis. “If the world can’t protect the Yazidis in our homeland, we ask Europe to give us a safe new home,” they said, the Independent reported.
Their call received support from French Socialists in the Parliament, who said EU countries must show solidarity toward refugees. “Survivors must be protected, both locally and by granting refugee status in Europe to the Yezidi who request it,” the Socialist group said in a statement.
The Sakharov Prize is awarded annually to individuals and organizations defending human rights and fundamental freedoms. The prize is accompanied by an award of €50,000.

Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny will run for president in 2018, he announced Tuesday.
“Join, friends. Together we’ll have a real election,” he tweeted.
Last month, Russia’s Supreme Court overturned a criminal conviction against Navalny, allowing him to run for office.
“Unfortunately we have gotten used to the idea that elections don’t solve anything,” Navalny said in a statement published on his blog Tuesday. “This isn’t surprising given there haven’t been free elections in Russia since 1996.”

An activist, blogger and vocal critic of the Kremlin, Navalny was convicted in 2013 on embezzlement charges widely seen as trumped up by the Kremlin. Navalny had founded the Anti-Corruption Foundation in 2011 and began publishing investigations targeting top government officials.
The court suspended the sentence shortly after it was announced, according to the New York Times, but the criminal conviction still barred him from becoming a political candidate.
In 2015, Navalny’s political group, the Progress Party, was banned from taking part in regional elections, despite getting the required number of signatures to do so.
“Those who are now in power have had power for 17 years, and they have stopped reacting to any kind of reprimand,” he said Tuesday.
“Both the Kremlin and the government are worried only about solving their own financial questions. That’s why they do not allow any criticism. They don’t allow competition even in elections.”
Navalny pointed to the unfair distribution of wealth, the corruption of the courts and the government’s tight reign on the press as a sign that the country is in desperate need of political change. Russia, he said, is spending billions on wars abroad, when that money is “so needed within the country.”
“Every power eventually degrades, and that’s exactly what we’re seeing now,” Navalny said. “I am going to discuss that which everyone is silent about, but which it is beyond time to discuss.”
Asked whether he would run for reelection in a September interview, Vladimir Putin told Bloomberg it was “too early” to consider the question.
Terrible jokes are a staple of the Christmas cracker, as much a part of British festivities as turkey with all the trimmings and falling asleep watching the Queen’s speech.
British TV channel Gold asked viewers to update the tired old cracker jokes by sending in 2016-themed gags and published a list of the best (or perhaps worst) on Tuesday.
The winner was a Brexit joke…
How will Christmas dinner be different after Brexit?
No Brussels.
There were also jokes about the terrible Euro 2016 performance by the England football team, the Royal Family and Bob Dylan winning the Nobel prize for literature.
Other political jokes on the list included:
What’s David Cameron’s favorite Christmas song?
All I Want For Christmas is EU.
Why are Jeremy Corbyn’s Christmas cards on the floor?
His cabinet collapsed.
What’s the best advice you can give at the UKIP Christmas party?
Avoid the punch.
President-Elect Donald Trump officially picked ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson as his choice to be secretary of state on Tuesday morning, setting up a contentious confirmation battle over the nation’s top diplomat.
Tillerson is likely to face extensive questions on Capitol Hill, as a number of prominent Republicans have already voiced concerns about his close ties to Russia and its strongman president, Vladimir Putin. He has no formal government experience, but spent years running ExxonMobil’s extensive international operations.
Should Tillerson not win confirmation, it would be an early setback for Trump’s presidency. A Cabinet nominee hasn’t been rejected by the Senate since 1989, and Trump will need Republicans to coalesce around Tillerson.
Yet Trump seemed undeterred by the pushback, trusting his gut and choosing another nominee with significant business experience.
“Rex Tillerson’s career is the embodiment of the American dream. Through hard work, dedication and smart deal making, Rex rose through the ranks to become CEO of ExxonMobil, one of the world’s largest and most respected companies,” said Trump in a statement. “His tenacity, broad experience and deep understanding of geopolitics make him an excellent choice for Secretary of State. He will promote regional stability and focus on the core national security interests of the United States.”
Tillerson, 64, has worked at Exxon for more than 40 years, climbing up the ranks from an engineer to become the CEO and travel the globe. He has made a number of large deals, including the purchase of XTO Energy in 2009.
“I am honored by President-elect Trump’s nomination and share his vision for restoring the credibility of the United States’ foreign relations and advancing our country’s national security,” Tillerson said in a statement. “We must focus on strengthening our alliances, pursuing shared national interests and enhancing the strength, security and sovereignty of the United States.
Yet how he would approach the job of America’s top diplomat is unclear. In one of his few foreign policy comments, he said at a 2014 shareholder meeting that he was generally opposed to sanctions. He has often wrangled with foreign governments as the company grew its international drilling business.
Tillerson has over the years negotiated major business deals with Russia and was awarded the “Order of Friendship” by Putin in 2013. He turned heads a year later when he spoke at an energy summit in Moscow alongside Igor Sechin, a Russian oil executive and close Putin ally facing Treasury Department sanctions.
Yury Ushakov, Putin’s foreign policy adviser, said on Tuesday that all Russian officials, including Putin, enjoyed “good, businesslike relations” with Tillerson.
Senators have voiced varying levels of concern about Tillerson’s warm relationship with the Kremlin.
“When he gets the friendship award from a butcher, frankly, it’s an issue that I think needs to be examined. And again, that does not mean we should prejudge Mr. Tillerson,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), said Sunday on Fox News.
Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), the chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs committee and another name on Trump’s list of candidates for secretary of state, released a statement Tuesday congratulating Tillerson on his nomination and noting that it was “an honor to be considered.” Corker spoke warmly of the Exxon CEO but did not outright pledge to support his confirmation.
“Mr. Tillerson is a very impressive individual and has an extraordinary working knowledge of the world,” Corker’s statement said. “I congratulate him on his nomination and look forward to meeting with him and chairing his confirmation hearing.”
Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, another member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, expressed reservations about Tillerson’s nomination.
“While Rex Tillerson is a respected businessman, I have serious concerns about his nomination,” Rubio said in a statement.
“The next secretary of state must be someone who views the world with moral clarity, is free of potential conflicts of interest, has a clear sense of America’s interests, and will be a forceful advocate for America’s foreign policy goals to the president, within the administration, and on the world stage. I look forward to learning more about his record and his views.”
Trump’s allies and aides continued to defend Tillerson, citing his business record and history of negotiating massive energy deals. He was recommended by Bob Gates and Condoleezza Rice, among others, Trump aides say, noting that he has respect in the diplomatic community. Rice and Gates have also both done work for Exxon through their consulting firm.
“It’s not like Vladimir Putin and Rex Tillerson are pounding down vodka at the local bar,” top aide Kellyanne Conway said on CBS on Monday. “They’re not intimate friends, but they deal with each other through business interests.”
In securing the secretary of state job, Tillerson leapfrogged a long list of candidates that was at times led by big-name frontrunners like former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a staunch Trump loyalist, and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, perhaps the president-elect’s most vocal Republican critic. Trump’s announcement that he will tap the ExxonMobil CEO to lead the State Department capped an unusually public vetting process, the leaderboard of which changed almost daily.
Romney, who not only opposed Trump during the Republican primary but also savaged him in a March speech as unfit for the presidency, went through an unusually public audition process that culminated in a Nov. 29 dinner with Trump and incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus.
Afterwards, Romney told reporters he was heartened by the conversation, and said they had a “wonderful evening” discussing world affairs. “These discussions I’ve had with him have been enlightening, and interesting, and engaging,” he said.
The 2012 Republican nominee even praised Trump for accomplishing something he could not: “He won.”
On Sunday, Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime friend and informal adviser, claimed during an appearance on Alex Jones’ radio show that the president-elect had allowed Romney to believe he might get the job just to “torture” him.
“Donald Trump was interviewing Mitt Romney for secretary of state in order to torture him,” Stone said. “To toy with him. And given the history, that’s completely understandable. Mitt Romney crossed a line. He didn’t just oppose Trump, which is his democratic right, he called him a phony and a fraud. And a con man. And that’s not the kind of man you want as secretary of state.”
Giuliani eventually said he dropped out because he was a “distraction.”
On Monday night, Romney posted on Facebook that he was honored to have been considered.
“My discussions with President-elect Trump have been both enjoyable and enlightening,” he wrote. “I have very high hopes that the new administration will lead the nation to greater strength, prosperity and peace.”
Tillerson, who was due to reach Exxon’s mandatory retirement age of 65 in March, would be the latest wealthy individual to join Trump’s Cabinet: He was paid $27.3 million last year and owns shares in Exxon worth nearly $240 million.
He likely faces wall-to-wall opposition among Democrats and environmentalist groups, who are expected to use the opportunity to grill Tillerson about ExxonMobil’s handling of climate change.
Tillerson’s confirmation battle could be further complicated by a sharp dispute over Russia’s involvement in the election, with CIA officials saying Russia tried to help Trump win. The president-elect has called those charges “ridiculous,” but lawmakers of both parties are calling for an investigation.
The left-leaning editorial boards of both The Washington Post and The New York Times were critical of Trump’s decision to tap Tillerson, with the latter questioning “why would Mr. Trump choose as his top diplomat a man whose every decision or action would be tainted by suspicion that he’s capitulating to Russian interests or those of the oil industry?”
Both newspapers admitted the possibility of some benefit from an outsider’s leadership at the State Department, but neither seemed convinced that those benefits outweigh the baggage Tillerson will bring to the job. The Post’s editorial board wrote that Tillerson should be confirmed only with transparency from Trump regarding any financial ties he might have to Russia and with assurances from the ExxonMobil CEO that he recognizes and condemns Russia’s “belligerent behavior.”
But others showered praise on Tillerson, including Gates.
“”He would bring to the position vast knowledge, experience and success in dealing with dozens of governments and leaders in every corner of the world,” Gates said in a statement. “He is a person of great integrity whose only goal in office would be to protect and advance the interests of the United States.”
Alex Isendstdt, Ken Vogel, Andrew Restuccia and Shane Goldmacher contributed.
A government crackdown in the wake of Turkey’s failed July coup has led to a spike in the number of journalists detained worldwide in 2016, according to Reporters Without Borders’ (RSF) annual report on press freedom, released Tuesday.
The number of media professionals in jail or held hostage by non-state groups in the country has more than quadrupled to 100 in the wake of the coup attempt, RSF said, with reporters charged with terrorism and insulting Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
“At the gateway to Europe, an all-out witch-hunt has jailed dozens of journalists and has turned Turkey into the world’s biggest prison for the media profession,” RSF secretary general Christophe Deloire said in a statement.
RSF called for the creation of a special representative for the safety of journalists, to be attached to the office of the U.N. secretary general.
Elsewhere in Europe, the picture is rosier. Finland took out the top spot in RSF’s global ranking of countries in order of press freedoms, with the Netherlands (2), Norway (3) and Denmark (4) making it into the top five. At the other end of the scale are China (176), Syria (177), Turkmenistan (178), North Korea (179) and Eritrea (180). Turkey dropped two spots since last year, coming in at 151.
Spain’s labor minister has proposed legislation that would change the country’s time zone and end the work day at 6 p.m., national media reported Tuesday.
Spain was originally on Greenwich Mean Time, along with Britain and Portugal, but shifted an hour ahead under dictator Francisco Franco, who wanted to align the country with Hitler’s Germany.
Labor minister Fátima Báñez has suggested turning back the clocks in an effort to increase productivity and improve the work/life balance of Spanish employees, who work some of the longest hours in Europe.
“We want to end the working day in Spain at 6 p.m. and we will promote a pact with representatives from companies and workers’ unions,” Báñez said in a speech in congress Monday.
Báñez also proposed extending paternity leave to four weeks from two and making working conditions more flexible, such as by improving options for remote work.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s Popular Party and Ciudadanos both agreed to the reforms in August. It is also supported by the opposition party, the Socialists, and is likely to pass through parliament.
PARIS — France’s National Front is at risk of a major split ahead of next year’s presidential election, with party leader Marine Le Pen on one side and her combative niece on the other.
The spat began last week when Marion Maréchal-Le Pen went against the party line by saying she opposed full public reimbursement for abortions. It was far from the first time the 26-year-old MP, who is beloved by Catholic conservatives, had struck out on her own.
In the past month, she spelled out independent positions on the 35-hour work week (she is against it), the role of her grandfather Jean-Marie Le Pen (she thinks he can play a role in the National Front’s campaign despite being kicked out of the party) and her aunt’s choice of a blue rose as her campaign logo (she does not see it, like Marine does, as a mix of the socialist and nationalist symbols).
But the abortion fight is different.
Maréchal-Le Pen challenged National Front Vice President Florian Philippot more directly than ever before and criticized her aunt’s flip-flopping on the abortion issue. It was the first time she had asserted herself so clearly, and on Sunday, Marine Le Pen was forced to step in to address the conflict, siding with Philippot.
Beyond Maréchal-Le Pen’s growing independence, the spat highlighted radically diverging views within the Front on a strategic question: How the party should deal with conservative presidential candidate François Fillon, who according to polls would crush Le Pen in the election’s final round.
“There are two totally different views on how to deal with Fillon,” said Joel Gombin, a political scientist who specializes in the Front. Maréchal-Le Pen “sees Fillon as a strategic threat for the National Front because he is hunting on their grounds, which creates a need to reassert several questions — notably those having to do with moral conservatism.
“Philippot is of the opposite view: that this is a great chance to underscore the divide between globalizers and patriots, as he defines it … Clearly, Marion now sees a chance to impose her vision more forcefully.”
For the National Front, Fillon’s landslide victory in a conservative primary election created a dilemma: He is a staunch conservative, campaigning on Catholic values, who often sounds more right-wing than Le Pen, especially on the economy.
Should the National Front attack him from the Right or the Left? Philippot, a statist anti-European, chose the latter option and accused Fillon of being a cold-hearted capitalist, dispatched by the European Commission to destroy the French welfare state.
Maréchal-Le Pen and her followers took the opposite tack. The difference in opinion might have remained internal, had Maréchal-Le Pen not decided to make it public by speaking out on abortions. (Abortion has been legal in France since 1981 and 100 percent reimbursed by the state since 2013.)
Philippot, who backs the party line that the abortion law should not be changed, reacted quickly. Questioned about Maréchal-Le Pen’s position, he referred to her as “that person” and said she was “alone,” “isolated” and out of step with the party’s president.
Maréchal-Le Pen retaliated, telling a Sunday newspaper that Philippot lacked respect, accused him of trying to set party policy on his own and criticized her aunt for having changed her position on abortion.
“I would have liked a bit more respect from Florian Philippot,” she told the JDD newspaper. “There is a minimum of respect and goodwill to have. Nothing can justify such aggression.”
Caught in the crossfire, Le Pen tried to reassert authority in an interview of her own. As the Front’s elected president, she said, she was free to defend any position. While in 2012 she opposed full reimbursement of what she called “comfort abortions,” Le Pen said that position had been taken as a concession to a hard-line faction in the party that no longer existed.
“There are millions of French patriots who … will not forgive us for getting lost in these sorts of petty squabbles,” she told BFMTV.
Le Pen’s intervention is unlikely to be the last word in an ideological and strategic conflict that has divided the National Front for years.
Convinced that Fillon’s rise shows a desire for frank conservatism in France, Maréchal-Le Pen’s camp is growing more assertive. On Monday, an elected official in southern France told POLITICO it was only a matter of time before her team demanded a full-blown reckoning with Philippot’s followers.
“After 2017, we will no longer be able to continue with this sort of incoherence inside the party,” said the official, who asked not to be named. “There will have to be a vote and we will see who wins.”
His assessment chimed with the view put forward last week by Guillaume Laroze, a gay law student who left the party after receiving homophobic insults online.
Laroze told POLITICO that some “80 percent” of the party’s rank-and-file members sided with Maréchal-Le Pen and wanted the National Front to adopt a clearer conservative agenda. The strain of trying to be “Neither Right, nor Left, but the National Front” — to borrow an expression from Samuel Maréchal, the man who raised Marion — would ultimately prove too great, and the party would formally split into two, Laroze said.
So far, Le Pen has sided with Philippot. In addition to stating that she had no intention of changing her position on abortion, she has echoed her vice president by attacking Fillon as an “ultra-liberal” candidate.
In a sign that Le Pen does not want to leave Fillon unchallenged on the Right, she chose to make one of her first major policy announcements a hard-line one: arguing that undocumented children should no longer be eligible for social benefits or free schooling.
Manfred Weber, the leader of the European People’s Party, told MEPs Monday to stop “party-political fights” and instead continue “joint action,” in a letter seemingly designed to ease growing tensions with his rival Socialist bloc ahead of the parliament’s presidential election in January.
“We have to prevent ourselves from becoming another institution of infighting and blockade,” Weber wrote in a letter to members of the European Parliament. “This is why the EPP is thriving for joint action.”
“We want to show our citizens that Europe is able to solve problems,” Weber added. “And we hope to find partners for this approach among the other groups.”
Weber’s EPP, the largest group in the assembly, is set to choose its candidate for the presidency of the Parliament from among four declared contenders in an internal election on Tuesday. After four years of Socialist leadership, the presidency was supposed to pass to a conservative leader, under a power-sharing deal between the two groups.
But last month, Gianni Pittella, the leader of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, announced he would make a bid to succeed departing President Martin Schulz and end the current coalition between the main center-right and center-left groups of MEPs. Last week, Pittella, who was re-elected chairman of the Socialists, underscored his wish to end the coalition with the EPP by skipping a meeting he usually attends with Weber.
In his letter, Weber implicitly criticized the S&D’s recent behavior and its political tactics.
“We don’t want to use the office for party political aims,” Weber wrote, in reference to the future president of the parliament. “Political positioning has to be made by the Groups themselves.”
He also referred to Pittella’s re-appointment as leader of the S&D by “acclamation” last month. “We will not choose our candidate by acclamation but we will nominate him or her in a democratic election, by secret ballot,” Weber wrote.
Ukraine will not get financial or military support from the EU, according to a proposal that the Dutch government wants to discuss with EU leaders at a summit on Thursday.
The proposed agreement “reaffirms cooperation with Ukraine in the fields of security” but “it does not contain an obligation for the Union or its member states to provide collective security guarantees or other military aid or assistance to Ukraine,” says the draft of the declaration, a copy of which was obtained by POLITICO.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who faces elections in March, is trying to find a way out after an April referendum in which Dutch voters overwhelmingly rejected the Ukraine-EU treaty on closer political and economic ties.
Many of the Dutch requests were not in the original agreement, which has been provisionally agreed upon. But as a result of the referendum, the Rutte government wants to signal it has red lines on Ukraine.
In a recent interview, Rutte threatened to scupper the deal entirely unless he receives legally binding guarantees from EU leaders that EU-Ukraine Association Agreement will not automatically lead to the country becoming an EU member.
Ukrainians, who turned toward the EU and away from Russia with the 2014 revolution, are looking closely at the wording of the declaration. The revolt was sparked by a last-minute attempt by the then pro-Russia government to walk away from the deal with Europe.
Another point EU leaders will have to come to an agreement on is free movement. The agreement “does not grant to Ukrainian nationals or Union citizens, respectively, the right to reside and work freely within the territory of the member states or Ukraine,” states the Dutch declaration draft, and while it reiterates support for the reform process in Ukraine, it “does not require additional financial support by the member states to Ukraine.”
Other parts of the declaration call for the continuation of the fight against corruption and respect for the rule of law. Diplomats will discuss the Dutch proposal at a meeting Monday night but officials say the talks are likely to continue until the summit Thursday. If the EU leaders agree on the text then, it will have to be voted on by the Dutch parliament.
In another document on the table on Thursday, also obtained by POLITICO, EU leaders insist that “completing the ratification process remains a crucial EU objective.” The document also stresses the EU resolve to “deepen and strengthen its relationship with Ukraine in the face of current challenges.”
Austria has spent months calling for a halt to Turkey’s European Union membership talks — now it wants EU leaders to sit up and take notice.
“When hundreds of thousands are arrested, when dissenters and opposition politicians are imprisoned … this is something that does not correspond to the spirit and fundamental values of the EU,” Sebastian Kurz, Austria’s foreign minister, told POLITICO Monday.
Kurz said he would use a meeting of EU foreign and Europe ministers on Tuesday to try to make his case again, and hoped to block adoption of the meeting’s conclusions on Turkey’s membership bid before they are passed on to leaders when they meet in Brussels Thursday. He said blocking the conclusions “is the leverage I have as a foreign minister.”
“I would expect that there will be a line [on the state of play of Turkish accession] in the conclusions of the meeting of the heads of state and government,” Kurz said. “I believe that it’s wrong to take the next step and pretend that the negotiations on accession will continue as if nothing had happened.”
“We’ve been negotiating for weeks in order to change the conclusions, which hasn’t happened so far. Therefore we can’t agree to them at this point. But from our point of view, the minimum is that it is clearly noted that due to the current developments in Turkey, negotiations will be frozen,” he said.
Kurz is from the center-right ÖVP party, which is the junior partner in Austria’s grand coalition with the Social Democrats. Leaders of both parties have repeatedly called to end the talks with Turkey, a view which largely reflects public opinion in Austria.
Relations between the EU and Turkey have become badly frayed as the government in Ankara cracked down on opposition figures following a failed military coup in July. In November, members of the European Parliament sharply criticized President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan for trampling democratic freedoms in the months since the coup, and for raising the prospect of restoring the death penalty.
MEPs later voted to suspend Turkey’s EU accession talks. The vote was non-binding, but it angered Erdoğan who threatened to open the floodgates of migrants into Europe.
That’s a problem for the EU, which in March signed a deal with Ankara under which Turkey agreed to stop the flow of migrants crossing into Europe in exchange for an acceleration of accession talks and visa liberalization for its citizens.
Turkey’s chief negotiator, Ömer Çelik, told reporters in Brussels last month that European nations failed to properly recognize the threat Turkey faced during the coup attempt. He also said they had unfairly criticized Turkey for the crackdown that followed, while not adequately acknowledging the country’s efforts to fight terrorism and to shelter millions of refugees.
Kurz responded to the complaints from Ankara about a lack of understanding for a country that has experienced more than half a dozen terror attacks this year by saying he “fully condemned” the failed coup and “terrorism such as the atrocious bombings in Istanbul last Saturday.”
But he added: “The understanding for Turkey would increase if they made some steps towards us. I don’t see that happening at the moment.”
Kurz said he saw support for Austria’s hardline position growing, but only in private.
“There often is, unfortunately, a certain gap between official opinion and what people indeed support, or between public statements and what is then decided behind closed doors.
“I can accept it as long as the gap does not become too huge. If the situation becomes too contradictory, then it makes no sense anymore for any of the parties involved.”
Not everybody agrees with the Austrian position. “I don’t consider it responsible foreign policy to just say ‘we put an end to the accession talks,’ without saying clearly what the outcome would be,” German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told reporters in Brussels.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker told German paper Welt am Sonntag that he also disagreed with Vienna’s stance on Turkey. “We should make an effort so Turkey gets closer to the European Union again, rather than to veer away in giant steps,” he said, adding that he wanted to keep the conversation going.
Kurz responded by saying, “I am in favor of  dialogue, even of working together on specific issues where cooperation makes sense.
But “there is a big difference between keeping up the dialogue on issues of common interest and pretending that a country will eventually be part of the European Union.”
Romania is one of the few countries in Europe where the Left still wins elections. But the key to the Social Democrats’ (PSD) success is their lack of leftist ideology — or rather, their willingness to promise voters in the EU’s second-poorest country to give them what they want.
With 95 percent of the votes counted on Monday, the PSD got slightly more than 45 percent of the votes in the parliamentary elections on Sunday. That is expected to give the party 251 seats out of the total of 464 of the Romanian parliament.
The National Liberals (PNL) came in second, obtaining around 20 percent of the votes. These results put it on course to get 98 seats in the parliament.
“The PSD is a catch-all party: its values are conservative, its economic policy is liberal and it has a social, left-leaning rhetoric when it comes to public policies,” said political analyst Radu Magdin, who was an adviser to Victor Ponta, the PSD prime minister ousted by public protest a year ago.
Ponta’s downfall amid allegations of corruption linked to a Bucharest nightclub fire was far from being the PSD’s first taste of scandal. In its 14 years in power since the fall of Communism in 1989, it has had two prime ministers indicted for corruption: Adrian Năstase, the prime minister between 2000 and 2004 who was sentenced to four years in prison in 2014 on charges of bribery, and Ponta, who was indicted on charges of corruption while still in office. His successor as party leader of the PSD, Liviu Dragnea, has a two-year suspended sentence for attempting to rig the results of a referendum.
Despite all that, the PSD’s promises of tax cuts and increased wages and pensions seemed to convince many Romanians who turned up to vote on Sunday, handing the party a landslide win. As Dragnea himself predicted when the PSD won local elections in June, when faced with a choice between improving their income or seeing politicians handcuffed on TV, many Romanians will plump for the former option.
Paradoxically, the recent success of Romania’s National Anticorruption Directorate has meant that many Romanians believe that justice when it comes to corruption doesn’t depend on who is in power, leaving them more comfortable with the idea of choosing the party they feel will look after their economic welfare, according to Magdin.
However, the international political consultancy Teneo Intelligence says that the PSD may pass laws that would curtail the power of the National Anticorruption Directorate and water down anticorruption laws.
The PSD promised during the latest campaign to increase the mandatory minimum wage from the current €277 per month to €388 by the end of what would be their new mandate in 2020. It also pledged to boost the number of people in full-time employment to 5.6 million, up from 4.75 million today. In a country with about five million pensioners receiving an average monthly payment of about  €200, their promise to adjust the basis on which state pensions are calculated in pensioners’ favor also carried weight.
The PSD has a record of delivering on such promises, no matter what the consequences might be for the broader economy. Even in opposition during the current one-year technocratic government led by former European commissioner Dacian Cioloş, some PSD senators got through legislation last month that will boost pension payments from January 2017.
In the last meeting of Ponta’s cabinet before his resignation, the PSD-led government awarded teachers a 15 percent salary increase, a month after they had boosted doctors’ salaries by 25 percent. Ponta also managed to reduce value added tax to 20 percent from 24 percent and the PSD promises to slash it further to 18 percent in 2018.
Such largesse attracted criticism from the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) at the time. They were concerned that Romania would overshoot the EU-mandated budget deficit ceiling of 3 percent of economic output. Not only did that not happen, but the IMF said in October this year that Romania was poised for a 5 percent economic growth in 2016, the highest in Europe.
PSD leader Dragnea, urging the redistribution of this economic growth among ordinary Romanians, has chastised the cautious stance of Cioloş’ interim government when it comes to public spending.
The Cioloș government referred one attempt by parliament to further increase doctors’ and teachers’ pay to the Constitutional Court last month, arguing that it is illegal to implement such increases in the six months before elections. The PSD was quick to capitalize on this and portray itself as the champion of public-sector workers and the middle class against an austerity-obsessed, unelected government.
It was a smart move by the PSD to oppose the Cioloş government, according to political analyst Magdin. The party has portrayed Cioloș, who spent years in Brussels and in France, as a man controlled by Hungarian-American billionaire George Soros, while setting itself up as a defender of true Romanian family-centered values, based on Christian Orthodox beliefs.
During the election campaign, PSD supported an initiative by the church-backed Family Coalition that called for a revision of the Romanian constitution to define marriage as the partnership between a man and a woman. Romania doesn’t allow gay marriage nor civil partnerships between same-sex partners and the Family Coalition wants the status quo enshrined in the Constitution.
The PSD has had a long partnership with the Orthodox Church, and some priests openly advised their parishioners to vote for Ponta in the presidential elections in 2014 because he was Romanian and Orthodox, as opposed to the eventual winner, Klaus Iohannis, a Lutheran who is ethnically German.
The Social Democrats also used a nationalist platform during this year’s campaign, urging voters to “dare to believe in Romania” and promising that their policies would enable many of the Romanians working abroad to come back to be united with their families at home.
That struck a chord with many Romanians, including in the PSD leader’s home county Teleorman. “Don’t we already have a German president and a Hungarian prime minister? Do we really now want French parliamentarians?” one middle-aged man told a young candidate from the Union Save Romania (USR), the Bucharest-based movement to clean up politics from corruption, while he was campaigning there. The comment was aimed at USR vice-president, Clotilde Armand, a French woman married to a Romanian, who did not, however, run for a parliament seat.
The PSD’s victory also reflects disarray among the main opposition Liberals (PNL), who supported Iohannis in the 2014 presidential elections and have failed to rebuild their support in the year since Ponta’s resignation, said Paul Ivan, senior policy analyst at the European Policy Centre in Brussels.
The PNL has appeared leaderless, giving the PSD, which remains Romania’s biggest party and has a strong grassroots presence across the country, an opening to campaign more effectively. As a result, the Liberals came a distant second, barely getting 20 percent of the vote and prompting the resignation of its leader, Alina Gorghiu.
“I hope we become a strong opposition to PSD,” she said. “Today you see a PSD with the big percentage it obtained in the elections, but you can also see, based on history, that they do unpleasant stuff while in government.”
ExxonMobil Chief Executive Rex Tillerson is still the leading contender to become President-elect Donald Trump’s secretary of state despite pushback from prominent senators wary of Tillerson’s ties to Russia, according to two sources familiar with the matter.
One of the sources said Tillerson could be named as the nation’s chief diplomat in the coming days — “unless something massive explodes” in the next 24 hours.
The source added that Trump’s team is “generally concerned about the Russia angle but willing to have the fight because they think he is that good.”
Tillerson has over the years negotiated business deals with Russia and was awarded the “Order of Friendship” by President Vladimir Putin in 2012. As he has emerged as Trump’s likely pick, senators have voiced varying levels of concern about the executive’s warm relationship with the Kremlin.
“Being a ‘friend of Vladimir’ is not an attribute I am hoping for from a #Secretary of State,” Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) tweeted on Sunday.
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) on Monday also expressed skepticism. “When he gets the friendship award from a butcher, frankly, it’s an issue that I think needs to be examined. And again, that does not mean we should prejudge Mr. Tillerson,” McCain said on Fox News.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell delved into the issue during his press conference Monday morning, rebuking the Kremlin as he announced support for a congressional probe into its involvement in the U.S. election. His remarks came hours after Trump suggested that the intelligence community’s assessment that Russia is responsible for a series of hacks to tip the election in his favor “would be called a conspiracy theory” if he lost the election and his team “tried to play the Russia/CIA card.”
McConnell said flatly that “the Russians are not our friends” and maintained that the U.S. should approach foreign policy and national security issues “on the assumption that the Russians do not wish us well.”
Asked specifically about the possibility that Trump would tap Tillerson as secretary of state, the Kentucky Republican did not mince words.
“I’m going to save us a lot of time by saying I just addressed how I feel about the Russians, and I hope that those who are gonna be in a position of responsibility in the new administration share my view,” McConnell said.
A Trump transition spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The search for the nation’s next secretary of state has been a weeks-long public process that has exposed divisions within Trump’s transition team.
The president-elect leaned toward one of his fiercest critics, 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, early on in the process. But while Trump was warming to Romney, some of his top allies publicly dissented against rewarding a man who repeatedly savaged the billionaire with a top Cabinet position.
Even so, Trump included Romney in the final four candidates for the secretary of state sweepstakes, which included former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, retired Gen. David Petraeus and Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).
Trump’s team, however, said he would expand the search, and he did, bringing in Tillerson and former Ford CEO Alan Mulally for interviews.
The search took another reality TV-style turn when the showman’s transition team announced last week that Giuliani, a Trump loyalist, had pulled himself out of contention late last month. In a telephone interview shortly after Trump’s transition team released the announcement Friday, Giuliani said Trump’s team initially rejected his withdrawal until only recently — a revelation that came alongside reports that Tillerson was the leading contender to head State.
Another Trump loyalist, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, seemed to confirm that Trump will announce Tillerson as his nominee for secretary of state.
“I am very impressed with the way in which President-elect Trump looked at a number of people,” Gingrich told Fox News on Monday morning. “As you know, we had a little bit of an argument over Mitt Romney, but he looked at a lot of people for three weeks and consulted a lot of people, and I think that he has found somebody who has run a huge organization, who knows how to make deals internationally and who in a very tough-minded way can represent America, and I think that he will be very, very effective. I think Tillerson really is as good a catch as you could get for the Cabinet. A remarkable man.”
Trump’s transition team told reporters on Monday morning that Trump would likely announce his decision “in the next coming days.”
“The president-elect is getting close to making a decision on who will serve as the next secretary of state,” senior communications adviser Sean Spicer said. “We expect that announcement to happen in the next coming days.”
Like a number of people Trump has chosen for his Cabinet, the choice of Tillerson would not be without controversy. The longtime CEO has deep ties to Putin and could face enough GOP opposition to stall his confirmation.
As an Exxon executive, Tillerson managed ties between the company and the Kremlin, striking a deal in 2011 that allowed the company to access Arctic resources in Russia. However, that deal was blocked by subsequent U.S. sanctions against Russia — sanctions that Tillerson sharply criticized for failing to consider the “broad collateral damage” they caused.
A spokesman for the Kremlin said on Monday that Tillerson has met with Putin multiple times to discuss business deals. “They [Messrs. Putin and Tillerson] have held business meetings. Indeed, the president has met Mr. Tillerson together with his partners in the Russian Federation,” spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Russian news agencies.
Sources told POLITICO over the weekend that Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) is likely to join McCain in mounting aggressive opposition to Tillerson, even as conservatives have been pleasantly surprised overall by Trump’s cabinet selections.
McConnell on Monday morning praised Trump’s picks so far, telling reporters he’s “been very impressed.”
“We’ll have to wait and see who is nominated for secretary of state and we’ll obviously treat whoever that is with respect. They’ll go through the regular process and respond to questions and we’ll see where it comes out,” he said.
But, when pressed on whether Tillerson could garner enough support to be confirmed, McConnell opted not to speak too soon.
“Let’s wait until we get nominees,” he said. “I think, of the nominees that we’re already aware of, I think — I’m optimistic that they’ll all be confirmed. But I don’t want to comment on a kind of a phantom nominee today.”
Plans for greater powers to limit welfare payments for EU migrants have been drawn up by the European Commission, according to a draft seen by POLITICO.
The college of commissioners will on Tuesday approve a plan to modify EU laws on “the coordination of social security systems” to crack down on EU migrants claiming benefits such as unemployment allowance.
Restricting social benefits is already possible under EU law and was confirmed last year at the European Court of Justice, which ruled in favor of a German law that stops EU citizens from claiming some benefits if they arrive in the country for economic reasons.
However, the situation varies across the EU and the Commission says a rule change “is necessary for reasons of clarity, transparency and legal certainty.” According to Commission figures, there are 3.7 million “economically inactive mobile citizens” in the bloc.
The Commission is also proposing  a “coordination of family benefits,” which includes a “uniform interpretation” of rules on child benefits.
It will be up to EU countries and the European Parliament to accept or amend the Commission’s proposal in the coming months.
Negotiations will likely be difficult as some countries, such as Germany and Austria, are likely to push for stricter access for child benefits, whereas the European Parliament is traditionally wary of restricting welfare payments.
Social welfare changes, including capping child benefit for EU nationals, was part of former British prime minister David Cameron’s failed attempt to persuade Brits to vote to stay in the EU.
The European Commission’s Brexit team wants EU citizens living in the U.K. to remain covered by European Court of Justice rules after the country leaves the bloc, according to a Telegraph report Monday.
The paper said the idea was raised at a meeting between Michel Barnier, the Frenchman who heads the Commission’s Brexit negotiating team, and officials from the 27 other EU countries at which they discussed ways to protect the rights of EU nationals living in Britain.
It quotes an unnamed source familiar with the discussions as saying: “The European Commission legal service was of the view that a political declaration on the rights of EU citizens in the U.K. would not be enough and that EU law must be available to EU citizens after Brexit, under the jurisdiction of the ECJ.”
Officials in Whitehall described the proposals to the Telegraph as “pie in the sky.”
The news came as a campaign group representing non-British EU nationals living in the U.K. called on Prime Minister Theresa May to help them stay in Britain permanently.
The3million group teamed up with organizations representing British people living in Europe, asking May to “the take the first step and unilaterally guarantee the right of EU citizens currently living lawfully in the U.K. to remain in the U.K. after Brexit.”
May’s attempt to secure assurances that Britons living in the European Union and EU citizens living in the U.K. would keep their rights to residence, work and health care after Brexit were knocked back by German Chancellor Angela Merkel when the pair met in November.
The German chancellor’s refusal dashed May’s hopes of a quick, informal deal to reassure expatriates on both sides of the Channel that they will not lose out when Britain leaves the EU.
Interior Minister Angelino Alfano is in pole position to become Italy’s next foreign minister, according to three government officials.
The post is vacant after outgoing prime minister Matteo Renzi chose Paolo Gentiloni as caretaker prime minister following the defeat of Renzi’s constitutional reforms in a referendum earlier this month. Carlo Calenda, the economic development minister, is another possible candidate for foreign minister, according to one of the officials.
Alfano, a center-right politician previously seen as a protegé of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, became the youngest justice minister in Italian history in May 2008, at age 37. A law bearing his name — the Lodo Alfano — sought to grant immunity from prosecution to the holders of the country’s four highest political offices, including Berlusconi, as long as they remained in office. The highest court declared the law unconstitutional in 2009.
In April 2013, while secretary of Berlusconi’s People of Freedom party, Alfano was appointed deputy prime minister and interior minister in the “grand coalition” government formed by Enrico Letta with support from Renzi’s center-left Democratic Party.
When Berlusconi withdrew his support for the government in November 2013, Alfano founded and became leader of the New Center-Right party in order to maintain the coalition — a move that allowed him to keep his post once Renzi became prime minister.
The Northern League’s Matteo Salvini criticized Alfano in a tweet Monday morning: “To wake up in the morning and read that ALFANO will be foreign affairs minister representing Italians worldwide. #jokesaside #elections.”

Italy’s outgoing prime minister Matteo Renzi said Monday he expects parliamentary elections to take place in June next year, local media reported.
“The next elections, presumably in June, will be held with a proportional voting system,” Renzi said in an interview with Quotidiano.net, Reuters reported.
In an interview with newspaper Corriere della Sera published Sunday, Renzi said the vote could either be held in June or October. New elections are due at the latest by February 2018, but could come earlier.
President Sergio Mattarella asked Paolo Gentiloni, the country’s current foreign minister, to form a new government on Sunday, one week after Renzi vowed to step down as he lost a referendum on proposed constitutional reforms on December 4.
Renzi said Gentiloni was “a quality man and will do well.”
The European People’s Party will choose its candidate for the presidency of the European Parliament from among four declared contenders in an internal election on Tuesday, as the largest group in the assembly tries to win back power after four years of Socialist leadership.
The contest, triggered by the departure of Martin Schulz of the Socialists & Democrats, will pitch the winning EPP candidate against S&D group leader Gianni Pittella. He has promised to scrap a “grand coalition” with the EPP that has enabled European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker and Schulz to push through crucial EU legislation. The EPP wants the S&D to honor a 2014 power-sharing deal for the EPP to take over the presidency in 2017.
The other groups’ candidates include Belgian MEP Helga Stevens from the European Conservatives and Reformists and Eleonora Forenza, an Italian MEP from the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. Although the dominant groups of MEPs traditionally strike a leadership deal before the official election on January 17, such an agreement is unlikely to happen this time. At the last election, in 2014, Schulz secured a second term in one round with the support of 409 of the 612 MEPs who voted.
Some EPP candidates have promised to tone down Schulz’s presidential style in favor of a more traditional role as speaker of the house. Here are the EPP candidates:
Arguing that the Parliament’s president needs “experience and authority” to ensure he or she has the ear of national leaders, 72-year-old Lamassoure presents his own “long political experience” as a French cabinet minister and an MEP since 1999. “I have had the pleasure of working alongside eight presidents of the European Parliament,” he wrote on announcing his candidacy. Lamassoure has presided over the powerful Budgets Committee, and was a highly-regarded head of a tax committee set up after the LuxLeaks financial scandal.
However, he lacks the crucial support of German center-right MEPs, and his principle backer in Paris, former Prime Minister Alain Juppé, was routed in the conservative primaries, weakening Lamassoure’s support among French MEPs. He has pledged to respect the impartiality of the presidency and to ensure that “major decisions are taken by politicians and not by the administration.” He would maintain Schulz’s initiative to invite national leaders from EU member countries to address MEPs at plenary sessions.
The former TV journalist, currently a Parliament vice president, did plenty of groundwork to build up support for her candidacy before she announced it in November, and is considered a good fit to take over from Schulz. “I have both the experience and skills to run for this position,” 57-year-old McGuinness told the Irish Times, citing her experience as an MEP for almost 10 years.
An agricultural economist by training, McGuiness sits on the Agriculture and Rural Development Committee and is a substitute member of the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee. In a profile published in 2011 when she ran for the presidency of Ireland for Fine Gael, the Irish Times described her as a “spotlight-loving, straight-talking MEP” and the “darling of Irish farming.”
While some MEPs in her own group think she takes too much of an anti-business tone when talking about farming policy, the same tendency means some left-wingers, including the Green Party, are likely to support her.
An Italian air force officer and journalist for public broadcaster RAI and newspaper Il Giornale, Tajani has promised “a change of pace” if he wins the EPP presidency. Four-times elected an MEP, 63-year-old Tajani led Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza Italia delegation to the European Parliament from 1999 to 2008 and then served as commissioner for transport and for industry and entrepreneurship.
“We need a pragmatic and forward-looking Parliament,” Tajani said on presenting his candidacy, promising to perform the job as “speaker of the house” if he wins.
However, Tajani could suffer from divided loyalties among Italian MEPs because of Pittella’s rival candidacy for the S&D. His appeal across the house is also limited by his association with Berlusconi and his role as transport commissioner overseeing emissions legislation that was not robust enough to prevent the Dieselgate scandal.
The only candidate from Eastern Europe, the 68-year-old former Slovenian prime minister is considered a favorite in the EPP contest, along with McGuinness. A fluent German and French speaker, he has been an MEP since 2004 and was twice a vice president of the Parliament, as well as working as an EU electoral observer in Ukraine in 2010.
In May 1990, Peterle became the first democratically elected prime minister of Slovenia after independence from Yugoslavia. “I have experienced a divided Europe, a time of humiliation of individuals and entire nations, then borders, restrictions, blockades and bans,” he wrote in his candidacy letter.
Peterle pledged to make the European Parliament a “central institution for discussing and shaping a very concrete vision on the future of the EU” in order to reduce what he called “the existing political deficit” in the bloc. Although he is not very well known outside his party, an EPP source said he is the only candidate “smart enough” to meet every head of delegation across the Parliament.
British extreme-right group National Action is to become the first organization in the U.K. to be banned under national terrorism laws, the government announced Monday.
Under the Terrorism Act, an organization may be banned if it is believed to be “concerned in terrorism.” An order to proscribe National Action is due to come into effect Friday, following debates Wednesday and Thursday in parliament, the Guardian reported.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd said the group was “a racist, anti-Semitic and homophobic organization” and had “no place in Britain.”
National Action describes itself as a “community of young Nationalists in the United Kingdom, united in a mission to save our race and generation.”
The government ban would make it a criminal offense to belong to the organization, with penalties up to a maximum of 10 years in prison.
The slogan used by the National Action website is “Death to traitors, freedom for Britain!” which was the statement given in court by Thomas Mair, who was jailed for life last month for the June murder of Labour politician Jo Cox.
The decision to ban National Action was taken before Mair’s trial, the Home Office said.
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde began standing trial Monday over her part in a multi-million euro payout to a French businessman while she was the country’s finance minister.
Lagarde said she acted in the national interest when she opted for an arbitration procedure to resolve a legal dispute between the state and Bernard Tapie, the former owner of Adidas and football club Olympique Marseille, AFP reported.
Tapie was awarded €403 million in public funds in 2008, when Lagarde was finance minister in then President Nicolas Sarkozy’s government, after the tycoon had sued the now defunct French bank Crédit Lyonnais, which was part state-owned.
Lagarde’s lawyer Patrick Maisonneuve told Europe 1 radio Monday that she “precisely followed the recommendations of her administration.”
Last December, magistrates found proof of “serious negligence on the part of a minister tasked with conducting affairs of state.”
On Sunday, Lagarde said in an interview on French television that “negligence is a non-intentional offense. I think we are all a bit negligent sometimes in our life. I have done my job as well as I could, within the limits of what I knew.”
A ruling is expected on December 20, according to France 24. If found guilty, Lagarde risks a prison sentence up to one year, as well as a €15,000 fine.
The IMF earlier said it expected Lagarde, who was awarded a second term as managing director in February, to be able “to carry out her duties effectively.”
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expects a warmer relationship with the White House under incoming President-elect Donald Trump than he has had for the past eight years.
In an interview that aired Sunday night on CBS’s “60 Minutes,” Netanyahu said “I know Donald Trump. I know him very well.”
“And I think his attitude, his support for Israel is clear,” he continued. “He feels very warmly about the Jewish state, about the Jewish people and about Jewish people. There’s no question about that.”
By contrast, Netanyahu admitted that he and President Barack Obama have “had differences of opinion,” most notably on the nuclear deal reached with Iran that was championed by the current administration. Netanyahu lobbied heavily against the deal, including in an address to a joint session of Congress, arguing that it imperiled Israel.
That lobbying effort should not be taken though as an indication of any personal discord between Netanyahu and Obama, the Israeli prime minister said. Despite the address to Congress, seen by some as a show of disrespect for the president, Netanyahu said he “had then and I have now” the “greatest respect” for Obama.
“Suppose we had the greatest of personal chemistry, OK? So, what?” Netanyahu posited. “You think I wouldn’t stand up against the Iran deal if I thought, as I did, that it endangers the existence of Israel? Of course I would.”
The Israeli prime minister said he plans to lobby Trump to undo the Iran deal, something the president-elect said he would carry out if elected. Undoing such a massive, internationally-negotiated deal would be complicated and even some of its U.S. critics have warned against backing out of the agreement now that it is in effect. But Netanyahu said he has a plan in mind, but would not discuss specifics of it with “60 Minutes” before talking to the president-elect first.
“I think what options we have are much more than you think. Many more,” he said. “And I’ll talk about it with President Trump. Well, I think quite a few, actually.”
A female Belgian interior ministry administrator has been suspended for taking pornographic photographs in the office, Het Laatste Nieuws reported Monday.
The civil servant, who had worked for the ministry for 10 years, shot explicit images in the ministry’s elevators and one of its executive offices and subsequently posted them on Twitter.
A spokesman for Interior Minister Jan Jambon confirmed the staffer was suspended pending a formal investigation, “in the interest of the public and in her own interest.” The woman’s access badge and laptop have been confiscated.
Colleagues came across the staffer’s photos after they noticed the woman was featured in a French media report on people offering sexual services. They conducted an internet search and discovered the images she had taken in the office.
The woman said her suspension was a “vexatious measure” that “badly damaged” her professional reputation, adding that she had been “treated like a leper.”
“It’s my private life,” she said.
Jambon, a Flemish politician who also holds the title of deputy prime minister, manages Belgium’s response to the country’s terror threat.
