
LONDON (Reuters) - British finance minister Philip Hammond said on Wednesday that Britain would need to make concessions to the European Union in order to secure the best deal for the country to leave the bloc.
"Every negotiation is about give and take on both sides and we have to go into this discussion understanding and accepting that we will have to do some give and take to get the best possible deal for Britain," Hammond told broadcaster Sky News.
Later on Wednesday Prime Minister Theresa May plans to formally notify the EU that Britain wants to leave, starting two years of exit talks.
"It has to be a deal that works for Britain and for its European Union partners, that's the only way you can get a deal done. But I'm confident as we've explored over the last nine months with our EU partners that we have a sufficient meeting of minds on this issue," Hammond said.
Hammond said leaving the EU would ensure Britain regained control over immigration, as well as reasserting the supremacy of Britain's parliament and court.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey will discuss Syria and the extradition of U.S.-based Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen, blamed for a failed coup last July, with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson when he visits Ankara this week, Turkey's foreign minister said on Wednesday.
In an interview with broadcaster TRT Haber, Mevlut Cavusoglu also said the arrest in New York of an executive at state lender Halkbank on charges of involvement in violating U.S. sanctions on Iran would also be discussed.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Cyclone Debbie wrought widespread but moderate damage in Australia's northeast, authorities said on Wednesday, as flooding rain and fallen trees slowed troops and emergency workers reaching the worst-hit areas.
No deaths were reported a day after Debbie smashed tourist resorts, flattened canefields and shut down coal mines in tropical Queensland state as a category four storm, one rung below the most dangerous wind speed level.
"It's looking promising in terms of being able to rebuild promptly with most of the major infrastructure intact," Queensland state police deputy commissioner Steve Gollschewski told Australian Broadcasting Corporation television.
"We're still struggling to get in there, however," he said, adding planes and boats were being used to bring army personnel and emergency workers to places cut-off by road.
And as poor weather persisted and several Bowen Basin collieries stayed shut, analysts said Debbie could push coking coal prices higher - while tourism operators, even in unaffected regions, reported canceled bookings.
Resorts along the world-famous Great Barrier Reef and coastal areas bore the brunt of the storm with wind gusts stronger than 260 kph (160 mph).
One family near Airlie Beach, over which the eye of the storm passed, had a particularly dramatic night. Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the family welcomed a baby girl who was born inside the Whitsunday Ambulance Station as the storm raged outside.
Pictures from Hamilton Island and Airlie Beach showed streets stacked with snapped trees, roof tiles and furniture, with wrecked yachts washed ashore.
"Nature has flung her worst at the people of Queensland," Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull told reporters at the Crisis Coordination Centre in Canberra.
Electricity was cut for more than 63,000 people, and Wilmar said its sugar mills were stilled at Proserpine and Sarina.
Hundreds of hectares of sugarcane crops had been flattened, Dan Galligan, chief executive of industry body Canegrowers, said in a statement.
In the Bowen Basin, the world's single-largest source of coal used to make steel, BHP Billiton, Glencore, and Stanmore Coal all said work at mines there was halted until further notice.
But Glencore added its Collinsville and Newlands mines were not damaged and it anticipated production would resume within 48 hours, with no impact on annual targets. Prices lifted, but other factors also contributed.
Ports operator North Queensland Bulk Ports Corporation also said it had no reports of significant damage.
Whitsunday Islands resorts were battered, running short on fresh water and closed to bookings until at least next week, but mostly intact.
Hoteliers hundreds of kilometers away at Cairns and Rockhampton were seeing cancellations for upcoming Easter holidays and operators worried that bad press would prolong the recovery, Queensland Tourism Industry Council chief executive Daniel Gschwind said.
"These are places that are entirely unaffected by these circumstances and that's the kind of collateral damage we suffer sometimes in our industry," he said.
Townsville Airport reopened, although airlines Qantas and Virgin said flights to Hamilton Island, Proserpine and Mackay were canceled.
Only two injuries were reported, police said.
LIMA (Reuters) - A Boeing jet operated by Peruvian Airlines caught fire on Tuesday while landing at an airport near the Andean town of Jauja in central Peru after it swerved on the runway, but there were no serious injuries, a government minister said.
Peruvian Airlines said in a statement that the Boeing 737-300 jet drove off the runway for unspecified reasons during the scheduled landing, after swerving to the right. It said that all 141 people on board the flight, which originated in Lima, were evacuated safely.
Authorities are investigating the incident, which occurred about 4:30 p.m., involving the Boeing 737-300 jet at the high-altitude airport in an agricultural valley some 265 kilometers from Lima, the capital.
The fire likely started when the wing scraped the runway, Interior Minister Carlos Basombrio said.
"The plane couldn't stop on the runway and they made a maneuver to stop it with the wing and that appears to have caused the fire," Basombrio told reporters on local broadcaster RPP.
Television images showed a large cloud of black smoke streaming from an airliner in flames.
Boeing said it was aware of the reports of the incident and was gathering information.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Protests across Russia on Sunday marked the coming of age of a new adversary for the Kremlin: a generation of young people driven not by the need for stability that preoccupies their parents but by a yearning for change.
Thousands of people took to the streets across Russia, with hundreds arrested. Many were teenagers who cannot remember a time before Vladimir Putin took power 17 years ago.
"I've lived all my life under Putin," said Matvei, a 17-year-old from Moscow, who said he came close to being detained at the protest on Sunday, but managed to run from the police.
"We need to move forward, not constantly refer to the past."
A year before Putin is expected to seek a fourth term, the protests were the biggest since the last presidential election in 2012.
The driving force behind the protests was Alexei Navalny, a 40-year-old anti-corruption campaigner who uses the Internet to spread his message, bypassing the state-controlled television stations where nearly all older Russians get their news.
"None of my peers watches television and they don't trust it," said Maxim, an 18-year-old from St Petersburg who took part in a protest there.
He said messages about the demonstration were shared among his friends via a group chat on a messaging app: "Half the group went to the demonstration."
Navalny, who was arrested at one of Sunday's protests, tailors his message for YouTube and VKontakte, the Russian equivalent of Facebook.
One of his recent videos, a 50 minute expose accusing Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev of secretly owning an archipelago of luxury homes, has been watched more than 14 million times on YouTube. Medvedev's spokeswoman called the allegations "propagandistic attacks" unworthy of detailed comment and said they amounted to pre-election posturing by Navalny.
While older Russians may have turned a blind eye to official corruption during years when living standards improved, younger Russians speak of it in terms of moral outrage.
"Why do I believe that what is happening right now is wrong? Because when I was little, my mum read fairy tales to me, and they said you should not steal, you should not lie, you should not kill," said Katya, a 17-year-old who was at the protest in Moscow. "What I see happening now, you should not do," she said.
Like other students who spoke to Reuters at the demonstrations, Katya, Maxim and Matvei asked that their surnames not be published to avoid repercussions.
Young people actively seeking change represent a new challenge for the Kremlin. It has built and maintained support for Putin for years by focusing mainly on ensuring stability, which Russians sought after the chaos of the immediate post-Soviet years.
Putin came to power after the 1990s, when the Soviet Union disintegrated and millions found themselves destitute. But young people who do not remember those times have different priorities than those even a few years older, said Yekaterina Schulmann, a political analyst.
"Our political regime is fixated on what it calls stability, that is a lack of change," she said. "The political machine believes the best offer it can make to society is 'Let's keep everything the way it is for as long as possible'."
"Young people need a model of the future, clear prospects, rules of the game which they recognize as fair, and ... a social leg-up. Not only do they not see any of that, no one is even talking about it," said Schulmann.
According to user data compiled from a social media page for people who said they planned to attend Sunday's protest in St Petersburg, more than one in six were aged under 21.
It is still too early to say whether the new phenomenon will emerge as a serious challenge to Putin's rule. It could be a burst of youthful idealism that fizzles out.
In any case, opinion polls show that Putin will win comfortably if, as most people expect, he runs for president next year.
His most serious rival for the presidency, Navalny, trails far behind in polls and could be barred from running because of an old criminal conviction which he says is political.
Still, the involvement of so many young people has forced the Russian authorities to pay attention.
A Kremlin spokesman said youngsters had been offered money by protest organizers to show up. The Kremlin offered no evidence to support this allegation, and none of the young people who spoke to Reuters said they had been offered payment.
Several students said school and university authorities had warned them before the protests they could be punished for taking part.
Pavel, a 20-year-old studying to be a veterinarian who attended a protest in Moscow, said it was worth it to risk some of Russia's stability in the hope of change.
"Yes, maybe it will be negative; yes, maybe there won't be the stability that we have now. But for a person in the 21st century it's shameful to live in the kind of stability we have now."
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nepal is urging climbers on Mount Everest, the world's highest peak, to help remove garbage from a camp abandoned two years ago after an earthquake triggered avalanches killing 18 people, as officials prepare to handle a rush of climbers.
Tourism and mountain climbing are the main sources of income for the Himalayan nation and make up 4 percent of its economy. Climbing is recovering from a series of earthquakes in 2015 that killed a total of 9,000 people.
Ten huge canvas bags each capable of holding 80 kg (176 lbs) of trash are to be placed at the ruined site of Camp Two on Mount Everest for climbers to deposit garbage they have retrieved, said Tourism Department official Durga Dutta Dhakal.
"This way we hope to bring down the trash without any extra cost, using helicopters that return empty after dumping climbing ropes at the high camp," he told Reuters on Wednesday.
The helicopters operate during the climbing season that typically runs from March to May to dump climbing ropes.
Sherpas would be paid to pick up the trash, said veteran climber Russell Brice, a New Zealander who runs the Himalayan Experience guiding company. "We will pay $2 for each kilo of trash the sherpas bring down," Brice said.
Mountaineers have removed more than 16 tonnes of trash from Everest in the past, but there are no estimates of how much  still litters the mountain.
Camp Two, located at 6,400 meters (21,000 feet) above sea level above the treacherous Khumbu Icefall known for crevasses and avalanches, is a major camping site for climbers of Mount Everest and Lhotse, the world's fourth highest peak.
More than 600 people scaled the 8,850-metre (29,035-foot) Everest summit last year from the Nepali and Chinese sides.
Hiking officials expect the number to swell this season as many mountaineers, whose $11,000 per-person permits received two-year extensions after the quake, are expected to return.
A group of hiking companies that sponsor climbers said it was trying to boost coordination between teams at high camps to avoid long queues of climbers forming in the mountain's "Death Zone".
"This will reduce crowding, minimize risks and improve safety," Dambar Parajuli, chief of the Expedition Operators' Association, told Reuters.
((This March 28 story has been refiled to add missing word 'to' in first paragraph))
By Vincenzo Damiani and Giancarlo Navach
BARI/MILAN (Reuters) - Italian police broke up a protest by environmentalists trying to prevent the removal of a grove of olive trees dating back centuries standing in the way of a $40 billion pipeline to bring Asian gas to Europe.
The trees, including some more than 100 years old, are in the path of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), the final stage of the so-called southern gas corridor designed to reduce the European Union's dependence on Russian energy.
On Monday, a top Italian court gave the go-ahead to start work on TAP, rejecting appeals by local authorities in the southern Puglia region who wanted to move the landfall.
On Tuesday, protesters laid down outside the work site to block the arrival of trucks and tractors, police officials said, and in the afternoon police dispersed about 50 people, including the mayors of some of the towns in the area.
Police also broke up a cordon of about 300 protesters.
TAP will bring 10 billion cubic meters of gas from Azerbaijan into the small Puglia seaside town of San Foca by 2020. It is seen by Brussels as a priority project to wean Europe off Russian gas dependence.
TAP developers had hoped to begin moving the first of roughly 10,000 trees almost a year ago, but opposition by the local town council, Puglia regional authority and environmentalist has delayed the process.
A TAP spokesman said around 30 olive trees were removed on Tuesday, and the aim was to speed up the process if the protests did not escalate. Last week developers removed 33 trees, but were forced to stop due to the protests.
If the trees are not shifted by April, when they go through a six-month growth spurt and cannot be moved, the TAP consortium must wait until late November to complete the removals.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's center-left Social Democrats (SPD) narrowed the gap with Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, a weekly poll showed on Wednesday, less than six months before a federal election in Europe's biggest economy.
The Forsa poll for Stern magazine and RTL television showed support for Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their Bavarian sister party (CSU) stable at 34 percent while the SPD under new leader Martin Schulz gained 1 percentage point on the week to reach 32 percent.
The Forsa institute put the poll's margin of error at 2.5 percentage points, meaning Merkel's conservative CDU/CSU bloc and the SPD are in a neck-and-neck race.
Both Merkel, who will seek a fourth term as chancellor, and Schulz are hoping to end their parties' current 'grand coalition' and to form a new government with smaller allies.
The poll showed the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) down 2 percentage points at 7 percent, which is the lowest level of support in that poll since November 2015.
The far-left Linke gained one percentage point to reach 8 percent, making it the third-strongest party. The Greens stood at 7 percent and the business-friendly Free Democrats (FDP) at 6 percent -- above the 5 percent threshold needed to enter parliament.
The poll of some 2,500 voters was carried out between March 20-24. The weekly poll mirrored the results of a monthly survey by the Allensbach institute for newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung which were published on Tuesday. [nB4N1E901Z]
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Two inmates were killed and 13 injured during a prison riot in northern Mexico, the government of the state of Nuevo Leon said on Tuesday, the second fatal security breach within a week in the country's troubled prison system.
The deaths occurred in the Cadereyta penitentiary near the city of Monterrey after about 50 inmates attacked the prison's pharmacy and set fire to cells, the government said.
It was the second consecutive day of violence there. On Monday, two guards and five prisoners were hurt after inmates blocked corridors in the facility with burning mattresses.
On Friday, three inmates died in a prison riot in the neighboring state of Tamaulipas after a jailbreak.
In February 2016, 49 people were killed in a massive gang fight in the Topo Chico prison in Monterrey.
LIMA (Reuters) - Extreme floods wreaking havoc in Peru are also threatening the South American country's rich archeological heritage and the tourism that thrives on it, a Peruvian archaeologist said on Tuesday.
At least 50 archaeological sites in Peru have been damaged by the intense rains that are battering northern Peru, resulting in a drastic drop in related tourism, said archaeologist and explorer Walter Alva.
Alva discovered the tomb of Peru's "Lord of Sipan" in 1987, a gold-adorned find that established the Moche culture as one of Peru's rich coastal civilizations that flourished long before the Incan Empire in the Andes.
Some researchers believe that Moche society collapsed because of an El Nino event and other climate changes during their rule from 200-700 AD, a reminder for some of the challenges now facing Peru due to unpredictable weather.
A sudden warming of waters off Peru's coast this year, as well as an unusual easing of trade winds, have unleashed torrential downpours that have killed dozens of people and displaced more than 100,000 in recent weeks.
Alva said two pyramids out of some 20 at the Bata Grande archaeological site are under imminent threat due to flooding in the northern region of Lambayeque.
Day-long downpours in recent weeks have beaten rainfall records in several districts in Peru's northern coastal region, which is home to scores of archaeological sites that date back to 1,500 years B.C.
"All of the main historic monuments are being impacted by the erosion they're suffering from because of the rains and overflowing rivers," Alva told Reuters by telephone.
People have made the flooding worse by trying to divert the natural flow of rivers, a practice that led to La Leche River bursting its banks near Batan Grande.
The 1,700-year-old tomb of the Lord of Sipan should be able to resist the floods because a drainage system has been installed. However, visits to the Lord of Sipan museum have dropped by 80 percent because much of the region's infrastructure has been destroyed.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate on Tuesday overwhelmingly backed the expansion of NATO to allow Montenegro to join the alliance, hoping to send a message that the United States will push back against Russian efforts to increase its influence in Europe.
The long-delayed vote was 97-2 in favor of Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. That was well above the two-thirds majority needed in the 100-member Senate to ratify Montenegro's membership.
There was no immediate confirmation of whether President Donald Trump would formally deposit the instrument of ratification, the last step in the U.S. ratification process.
However, his administration had supported NATO membership for the tiny Balkan nation, one of Europe's smallest, despite Trump at times criticizing the alliance as he campaigned for president last year.
While campaigning, Trump accused other NATO members of  failing to pay their fair share while adopting a conciliatory tone toward Russia. But as president, Trump has pledged his support for the alliance.
Reuters reported last week that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson wrote to the leaders of the Senate this month to say Montenegro's membership in NATO was "strongly in the interests of the United States."
On Tuesday, the only two "no" votes came from Republican Senators Rand Paul and Mike Lee, who had delayed the vote for months by refusing to allow a quick vote. Senate leaders held the more time-consuming roll call vote this week after receiving Tillerson's letter.
Paul had questioned the wisdom of allowing a country with just 650,000 residents and an army of just 2,000 to join the alliance, saying American taxpayers should not be forced to pay if Montenegro were attacked.
Russia opposes NATO's enlargement in the western Balkans.
Backers said it was important to support countries like Montenegro to promote western values and push back against Moscow, which Montenegrin officials said was partly behind an alleged plot to overthrow their government during an election in October 2016.
Moscow dismissed that accusation.
"With a nearly unanimous vote, the Senate has sent a clear message that it stands firmly with Montenegro and against the Kremlin's bullying," said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a Democratic member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
All 28 NATO members must ratify Montenegro's accession in order for the country to join the alliance. Washington is among  the last to do so.
(This story corrects vote to 97-2 in second paragraph)
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Ash Carter, who until January was U.S. defense secretary, said on Tuesday he did not see major changes in the campaign against Islamic State since President Donald Trump took office, amid accusations the U.S. military may be relaxing rules protecting civilians.
"I don't see overall major changes and I certainly hope they stay on the path that we set because I think that's the right path," Carter said at a forum at Harvard University, in his first public address since leaving the post.
Carter declined to speculate about the investigation into an explosion in Mosul believed to have killed scores of civilians, even as he stressed the importance of probes of such incidents. The U.S. military has acknowledged a possible role in the incident but also says Islamic State could be to blame.
PARIS (Reuters) - Two French ministers will travel to French Guiana on Wednesday to seek a solution to protests sweeping the French territory in South America.
Interior Minister Matthias Fekl and Ericka Bareigts, minister for France's overseas territories, were dispatched to French Guiana by Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, a statement from the prime minister's office said.
The ministers will hold talks with political, business and social leaders to try to find rapid solutions to local demands, the statement said.
French Guiana has been swept by social unrest in recent days, with protests and a general strike, less than a month before France holds presidential elections.
The movement began with demands for greater security against crime - French Guiana is the French department with the highest murder rate - but also reflects a deeper malaise in the territory which suffers from high unemployment.
The U.S. State Department warned American citizens last Friday to avoid travel to French Guiana due to widespread protests it said had the potential to become violent in the main cities of Kourou and Cayenne and had shut down the international airport.
The State Department advised U.S. visitors to avoid crowds, noting that the protests had shut down roads, schools, businesses and municipal buildings.
Labor protests in the overseas French department bordering Brazil and Suriname have also caused the indefinite postponement of the planned launch of an Ariane 5 rocket carrying communications satellites for Brazil and South Korea.
SEOUL (Reuters) - If ousted South Korean president Park Geun-hye is arrested this week, she will be sent to a solitary cell where she will be expected to rise at 6:30 a.m. and go to bed by 9 p.m.
The only privilege she could have over other inmates will be slightly more space and a toilet and shower in an adjoining room, rather than within her cell, former correctional and prosecution officials said.
Park, moved out of the mammoth presidential Blue House just over two weeks ago, after the Constitutional Court upheld her impeachment for conspiring with longtime friend Choi Soon-sil to raise millions of dollars for foundations from the country's conglomerates.
Park and Choi both deny wrongdoing.
Park is now in her private residence in an upscale Seoul neighborhood but a local court will rule on Friday on a warrant seeking her arrest. If granted, the 65-year-old will be held in detention for 20 days while she is investigated and possibly indicted on charges that could imprison her for at least 10 years.
If arrested, as a former president she will be assigned a cell that will be larger than the 6.56 square meter (71 square foot) solitary units occupied by others accused of wrongdoing in the same scandal, including the head of the Samsung conglomerate, Jay Y. Lee.
"I think Park would stay in a better facility," said Kim Kyung-soo, a retired prosecutor who interrogated two former military presidents, Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo, after their arrests in 1995 for treason and bribery.
"And she will use a bigger cell than those of others."
Park will likely stay in a single cell in a remote building for security reasons to keep her separated from other inmates, the former prosecutors and prison officials said, but will be subject to the same rules on everything from meals to room inspections.
That includes rising at about 6:30 a.m. and going to bed at around 9 p.m, and being allowed to watch television during the day but only a single channel with pre-recorded programs authorized by the Justice Ministry.
Visitors are limited to one a day but detained inmates are allowed unlimited meeting time with their lawyers.
The Korea Correctional Service, which operates the country's prisons and detention centers, lists a rotating set of meals that provide 2,500 calories a day.
If Friday is her first day in detention, Park will be served a simple lunch of rice with bean sprouts, kimchi, cabbage stew and seaweed that costs 1,443 won ($1.30), officials said.
One of the other privileges Park will have to give up if arrested will be getting her hair coiffed in the cropped chignon style that is her trademark.
Since taking office, Park has never been seen in public without a perfect chignon. She was last seen emerging after 14 hours of interrogation by prosecutors last week with the style intact.
"Getting your hair permed or done by someone from outside the facility is against equality among inmates," Kim, who now has a private law practice in Seoul, told Reuters.
"It will be difficult for (Park's side) to insist they need an outsider to come in and do her hair."
Inmates have access to hairdressers inside but services are limited to cutting hair. Cosmetics at the detention center commissary are limited to the basics, like toner and lotion. Hair dye is also unavailable.
Park will not be allowed to keep hairpins, lawyers who know about South Korea's correctional system said.
It's not immediately clear which detention center from among the five in the Seoul metropolitan area will be used for Park if she is arrested.
Choi and Samsung scion Lee, who is accused of giving bribes to Park for corporate favors, are being held at the Seoul Detention Centre, but officials there declined to comment on where Park will be taken if she is arrested.
The center is however considered to be her most likely destination if the arrest warrant is issued.
Lee Soon-gil, 77, a retired justice ministry official who was chief at the Seoul Detention Centre when Roh was held there, said the former president was given a bigger cell and a separate shower room and a toilet, whereas other inmates had wash stands and toilets inside their cells.
Lee said officers redesigned an old cell, furnishing a desk and a bed for the former president, but the cells were inspected every day like others.
"She will be treated equally like anyone else," he said of Park.
Samsung's Lee has no shower, only a wash-stand, in his cell and a mattress on the floor to sleep on.
Kim, the retired prosecutor, said Park would have some benefits as a former president but no advantages.
"She is 65 and a woman, so in that regard she will be taken care of, but in the meantime she will be going through thorough investigations while being in there despite her age and status as a former president," he said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. general in Iraq told reporters on Tuesday that a strike near the Islamic-State-held Syrian city of Raqqa last week appears to have killed dozens of militants and not civilians.
Last week the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said an air strike that hit a school sheltering displaced people killed at least 33 people, adding it believed the strike was carried out by the U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State in the area.
"I would tell you that we haven't completed our assessment of that event yet, but my initial read is (it is) not credible," Lieutenant General Stephen Townsend told reporters at a Pentagon via teleconference.
"I think that was a clean strike," Townsend said.
"We had multiple corroborating intelligence sources from various types of intelligence that told us the enemy was using that school and we observed it and we saw what we expected to see," Townsend said, adding that it appeared to have hit about 30 Islamic State militants.
MOSUL, Iraq/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The senior U.S. commander in Iraq acknowledged on Tuesday that the U.S.-led coalition probably had a role in an explosion in Mosul believed to have killed scores of civilians but said Islamic State could also be to blame.
As investigators probe the blast, Lieutenant General Stephen Townsend strongly defended U.S. behavior in the war and pushed back against accusations the United States had loosened safeguards meant to protect civilians as it ramps up the battle against Islamic State.
Still, he said increases in casualties were to be expected as the war against the insurgents entered its deadliest phase in the cramped, narrow streets of Mosul's Old City.
"It is the toughest and most brutal close-quarters combat that I have experienced in my 34 years of service," Townsend told Pentagon reporters, speaking from Iraq.
"What has not changed is our care, our caution ... our tolerance from civilian casualties - none of that has changed."
Rights group Amnesty International has said the high civilian toll in Mosul suggested U.S.-led coalition forces had failed to take adequate precautions to prevent civilian deaths.
Investigators combed through the rubble left by a March 17 explosion in al-Jadida district in west Mosul, where Iraqi forces backed by U.S.-led coalition air strikes are fighting to clear Islamic State militants from Iraq's second city.
One line of investigation is whether Islamic State rigged explosives that ultimately caused the blast that destroyed buildings. One estimate put the death toll at more than 200 people.
"My initial assessment is that we probably had a role in these casualties," Townsend told a Pentagon news briefing, speaking by teleconference.
"Now, here's what I don't know. What I don't know is were they (the civilians) gathered there by the enemy? We still have some assessments to do. ... I would say this, that it sure looks like they were."
The United States has about 5,200 troops in Iraq, the Pentagon says. Officials say two more companies of U.S. soldiers, just under 300 troops, are headed to Iraq on a temporary deployment.
Witnesses on Sunday described horrific scenes of body parts strewn over rubble, residents trying desperately to pull out survivors and other people buried out of reach.
The Iraqi military's figure of 61 bodies was lower than that given by local officials - a municipal official said on Saturday that 240 bodies had been pulled from the rubble. A local lawmaker and two witnesses say a coalition air strike may have targeted a truck bomb, triggering a blast that collapsed buildings.
If confirmed, the toll would be one of the worst since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion, raising questions about civilian safety as Iraq's Shi'ite-led government tries to avoid alienating Mosul's mostly Sunni population.
Iraq's military command has blamed militants for rigging a building with explosives to cause civilian casualties, but some witnesses say it was collapsed by an air strike, burying many families under the rubble.
"My initial impression is the enemy had a hand in this. And there's also a fair chance that our strike had some role in it," Townsend said. "I think it's probably going to play out to be some sort of combination. But you know what, I can't really say for sure and we just have to let the investigation play out."
Townsend noted that the type of munitions the U.S.-led coalition had used should not have collapsed a building.
U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley after meeting Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi and Iraq's defense minister late on Monday, said there had been air strikes in the vicinity that day and on previous days but it was not clear they had caused the casualties.
He raised the possibility that Islamic State blew up the building to cast blame on the coalition and "cause a delay in the offensive on Mosul".
A source close to Abadi's office said the U.S. military delegation also called for more coordination among the Iraqi security force units on the ground and for consideration that thousands of civilians are stuck in their homes.
The United Nations rights chief said on Tuesday at least 307 civilians had been killed and 273 wounded in western Mosul since Feb. 17, saying Islamic State was herding residents into booby-trapped buildings as human shields and firing on those who tried to flee.
"This is an enemy that ruthlessly exploits civilians to serve its own ends," U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein said. "It is vital that the Iraqi security forces and their coalition partners avoid this trap."
Iraqi forces have retaken eastern Mosul and are pushing through the west, but have faced tough resistance in the densely populated districts around the Old City, where narrow streets and traditional homes force close-quarters fighting.
Iraqi forces fighting around the Old City tried to storm the al-Midan and Suq al Sha'areen districts, where Islamic State ran its religious police who carried out brutal punishments, such as crucifixion and public floggings, federal police commander Lieutenant General Raed Shakir Jawdat told state al-Sabah newspaper.
Helicopters were strafing Islamic State targets around Al Nuri mosque, where Islamic State's leader declared his caliphate nearly three years ago after militants took control of swaths of Iraq and Syria.
Thousands of civilians are fleeing the fighting, shelling and air strikes, but as many as half a million people may be trapped inside the city.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. prosecutors on Tuesday charged an executive at a Turkish state-owned bank with participating in a multi-year scheme to violate U.S. sanctions against Iran, escalating a case that has added to tensions between the United States and Turkey.
Mehmet Hakan Atilla, a deputy general manager of Halkbank, is accused of conspiring with wealthy Turkish gold trader Reza Zarrab to conduct hundreds of millions of dollars of illegal transactions through U.S. banks on behalf of Iran's government and other entities in that country.
Atilla, a 47-year-old Turkish citizen, looked somber as he appeared at a brief hearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge James Francis in Manhattan, a day after being arrested at John F. Kennedy International Airport.
It was unclear whether Atilla has hired a lawyer or made any bail application. He will remain in federal custody for now.
The charges expand a case that has drawn criticism from Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, who has said he believed U.S. authorities had "ulterior motives" in prosecuting Zarrab.
Atilla was arrested on the same day it was revealed that Zarrab, the gold trader, had added former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, a confidante of President Donald Trump, to his legal team.
Turkey's relations with the United States deteriorated under former President Barack Obama, and officials in Ankara had been hoping for improvement under Trump.
Turkish officials contacted by Reuters on Tuesday said they had no information on the arrest.
According to a criminal complaint, Atilla worked with Zarrab and others from 2010 to 2015 to conceal Zarrab's ability to supply currency and gold to Iran through a Turkish bank, without subjecting the bank to U.S. sanctions.
As part of that scheme, Atilla and Zarrab used front companies and fake invoices to trick U.S. banks into processing transactions disguised to appear as though they involved food, and thus were exempt from U.S. sanctions, prosecutors said.
"United States sanctions are not mere requests or suggestions; they are the law," Acting U.S. Attorney Joon Kim in Manhattan said in a statement.
Atilla was charged with conspiring to commit bank fraud, which carries a maximum 30-year prison term, and violating U.S. sanctions, which carries a maximum 20-year term.
Atilla had been in New York for the latest in a series of investor meetings ahead of a planned Halkbank dollar-denominated subordinated bond issue, Turkish bankers said.
Zarrab, a dual national of Iran and Turkey, had been arrested in 2013 in a corruption probe of people with close ties to Erdogan, who was then Turkey's prime minister.
In questioning that case, Erdogan said in September that prosecutors were trying to implicate him by referring in the indictment to Zarrab's donations to an educational charity with which Erdogan and his wife were affiliated.
Zarrab has denied the charges in his case, and faces an Aug. 21 trial. He was arrested on March 21, 2016 in Miami while en route to Disney World with his wife and daughter.
Ties between the United States and Turkey have been strained by U.S. support for Kurdish militia fighters in Syria, and the presence in the United States of Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Ankara blames for last July's failed military coup.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is scheduled this week to make a one-day visit to Ankara, where talks with Erdogan will focus on Syria, senior U.S. officials said on Monday.
In a court filing on Monday, Kim questioned whether Zarrab's legal team could include Giuliani and former U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey, who work for law firms that also represent some of the alleged U.S. bank victims.
Another lawyer for Zarrab said Giuliani's and Mukasey's roles would not require them to appear in court.
Kim later said his understanding was that both will remain "involved in efforts to explore a potential disposition of the criminal charges in this matter."
The case is U.S. v. Atilla, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 17-mag-02197.
NEW YORK/MONTREAL (Reuters) - The leading international airline trade organization's top official on Tuesday denounced U.S. and British bans on some electronic devices on flights from several Muslim-majority countries, criticizing the policies as a move toward "more restricted borders and protectionism."
Alexandre de Juniac, director general and chief executive of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), questioned the efficacy of the bans on devices larger than a cellphone, in a speech to the Montreal Council on Foreign Relations.
The restrictions, announced last week, apply to direct flights to Britain and the United States from certain airports in the Middle East and North Africa.
"The current measures are not an acceptable long-term solution to whatever threat they are trying to mitigate," de Juniac said. "Even in the short term it is difficult to understand their effectiveness."
The American regulations were prompted by reports that militant groups want to smuggle explosive devices in electronic gadgets. They require that devices larger than a cellphone, including laptops and tablets, must be stowed with checked baggage on U.S.-bound passenger flights from airports in 10 Muslim-majority countries.
Britain followed suit shortly after with a similar ban on larger carry-on electronics on direct flights from six countries. France and Canada said last week that they were examining their policies.
A U.S. security official told Reuters on Tuesday that the electronics restrictions were a "calculated move" based on reliable intelligence. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, indicated that the United States would stick with the policy.
The White House and the Department of Homeland Security, which enforces U.S. national security measures, did not immediately respond to requests for comment on de Juniac's criticisms.
De Juniac said the bans created severe "commercial distortions."
"We call on governments to work with the industry to find a way to keep flying secure without separating passengers from their personal electronics," he said.
In a phone interview with Reuters following his speech, de Juniac admonished the U.S. and UK governments for what he characterized as "no coordination at all" in enforcing the policy.
The airports covered by the U.S. ban differ from those in the UK one, and de Juniac questioned why the two countries did not have a common list.
"The discrepancy is harming the credibility of the measure itself," he said.
PARIS (Reuters) - Centrist Emmanuel Macron would trounce far-right leader Marine Le Pen in France's presidential election if, as seems increasingly likely, the two face off in the second and final round of the contest on May 7, a poll showed on Tuesday.
The Ipsos poll was the latest of many to show Macron and Le Pen six or seven percentage points ahead of erstwhile favorite Francois Fillon, who has been engulfed by a financial scandal involving his British wife, Penelope, and two of his children.
The poll conducted on Sunday and Monday showed Le Pen and Macron respectively securing 25 and 24 percent of first-round votes, with transfer votes from eliminated candidates ensuring a resounding victory for Macron in the final two-way playoff.
Ahead of the first round vote on April 23, most of the major candidates were out on the campaign trail on Tuesday, defending their programs in speeches and meetings with representatives of the business federation Medef.
Fillon's British wife at the same moment faced questioning by magistrates who are investigating accusations that she got hundreds of thousands of euros of parliamentary funds from her husband for minimal work as an assistant.
Since press disclosures in January that prompted the judicial investigation, Fillon, a fan of late British leader Margaret Thatcher, has tumbled from first to third place in the polls. These now show him being eliminated in round one.
Fillon has accused Socialist President Francois Hollande of waging a 'dirty tricks' war against him.
While denying he did anything illegal, he has conceded that he made errors of judgment, both concerning the "Penelopegate" affair and in accepting expensive made-to-measure suits from a lawyer renowned for his role as a deal-maker in Africa.
LONDON (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May signed a letter on Tuesday to European Council President Donald Tusk notifying the European Union of Britain's intention to leave the bloc, a photograph seen by Reuters showed.
The letter is due to be delivered by hand to Tusk in Brussels on Wednesday by Tim Barrow, Britain's permanent representative to the EU. May will also notify parliament about the letter.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will press this week for NATO allies to demonstrate a "clear path" to increase defense spending, a State Department official said on Tuesday.
Tillerson will hold his first meeting with NATO foreign ministers in Brussels on March 31.
He will push allies on how they plan to meet a defense spending goal of 2 percent of gross domestic product, and press NATO to increase its role in the fight against terrorism, the official said.
"It is no longer sustainable for the United States to maintain a disproportionate share of NATO's deterrence and defense spending," the official said in a briefing with reporters, on condition of anonymity.
President Donald Trump has unsettled European allies with demands they increase defense spending and talk of establishing an alliance with Russia to counter Islamic State militants.
Tillerson's initial decision to skip his first meeting with NATO foreign ministers to attend expected talks in the United States with Chinese President Xi Jinping also reopened questions about the Trump administration's commitment to the alliance. The State Department later said the meeting in Brussels had been rescheduled and Tillerson would attend.
Five NATO members - Britain, Estonia, Greece, Poland and the United States - currently meet the 2 percent spending threshold, according to 2016 NATO figures. Members of the alliance have until 2024 to meet the targets.
The Estonian, Latvian, and Lithuanian foreign ministers met with Tillerson at the State Department on Tuesday. The Baltic states have felt especially vulnerable since Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014.
Asked if they were confident in U.S. support for NATO, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Linas Linkevicius responded "No doubts about that" and Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics and Estonian Foreign Minister Sven Mikser nodded in agreement.
The senior State Department official said Trump administration officials are "pushing allies to do more, faster, absolutely no apology for that." The United States also wants allies to give a "clear path" on how they would meet the threshold, such as timelines and budgetary commitments, he said.
But the official declined to state any specifics on what the United States would do if allies did not meet the targets.
"Our joint security requires it, that's the main leverage that we have," the official said.
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said last month the United States might "moderate" its support for the alliance but gave no details.
KINSHASA (Reuters) - Congolese police fired shots and tear gas on Tuesday to ward off protesters after Catholic bishops pulled out of their mediation role in talks meant to pave the way for President Joseph Kabila to step down after an election.
Sporadic unrest broke out in Democratic Republic of Congo's capital Kinshasa when the bishops announced they would no longer host the talks between Kabila's allies and the opposition, after voicing frustration at their unwillingness to seek compromise.
The implementation of a political transition pact mediated by the bishops and signed on Dec. 31 has stalled, raising the specter of renewed violence in a vast central African country that has suffered a series of ruinous wars and rebellions.
Congo has never experienced a peaceful handover of power and millions have died, mostly from hunger and disease, in conflicts in east Congo since the late 1990s, when rebels ousted President Mobutu Sese Seko after three decades in power.
"We think that there's no longer anything to do," Donatien Nshole, secretary general of CENCO, the bishops' organization, told Reuters. "We have given all our time and all our energy."
CENCO helped negotiate the Dec. 31 deal aimed at averting a political crisis by ensuring an election this year to elect Kabila's successor.
Reacting to CENCO's decision, the opposition vowed to hold a nationwide protest on April 10.
"I call on the Congolese people to mobilize themselves for a big peaceful march throughout the republic and the diaspora (abroad)," the UDPS, the main party in the opposition coalition, said in a statement. "I call on our millions of supporters...to resist the dictatorship taking root in our...country."
However, in a statement read on state-run television, Kabila's office said that talks would continue and that "the current impasse must in no way signify a definitive rupture of the dialogue".
Kabila has ruled Congo since his father Laurent's assassination in 2001, and his critics accuse him of deliberately delaying elections in order to remain in power.
His supporters deny the charge, but Kabila's refusal to step down at the end of his mandate in late December was followed by a wave of popular protests, killings and lawlessness.
A militia uprising in central Congo's Kasai Central province that began in August has killed more than 400 people, according to the United Nations, and has worsened this year. Militiamen in Kasai decapitated about 40 police officers after an ambush on Friday, local officials said.
On Tuesday, the government said villagers in Kasai-Central province had found the bodies of two United Nations investigators and their Congolese interpreter who went missing this month in the area where fighting has flared.
Michael Sharp, a U.S. citizen, and Zaida Catalan, a Swedish national, had been part of a group of experts monitoring a sanctions regime imposed on Congo by the U.N. Security Council when they disappeared. Congo's government has blamed unidentified "negative forces" for their disappearance.
Earlier on Tuesday a few demonstrators burned tyres at Kinshasa city intersections. Many shops remained closed and some schools called parents to collect their children, a Reuters witness said.
Congo's elections have been repeatedly delayed, ostensibly because of budgetary problems, igniting public anger. Security forces killed at least 40 people in protests during the week that Kabila's mandate ran out in December, but CENCO-mediated talks had enabled an agreement to be reached.
In January, though, the bishops warned that the deal was at risk of unraveling if politicians did not act quickly to reach compromises and carry it out.
JOHANNESBURG/PRETORIA (Reuters) - South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan abandoned an investor roadshow and flew home on Tuesday on the orders of President Jacob Zuma, triggering speculation about his future that weakened the country's currency and bonds.
Gordhan, widely seen in financial markets as a guarantor of stability, said "yes" when asked by a reporter if he was still the finance minister - a comment that helped trim the rand's losses to 1 percent against the dollar.
"I think ask the presidency," he said when asked if he knew why he had been summoned home.
Zuma's sudden recall cut short Gordhan's roadshow in Britain and the United States, triggering jitters that a long-running power struggle between the two men was coming to a head and might threaten more turmoil for Africa's most developed economy.
Talk Radio 702 said Gordhan's dismissal had been discussed on Monday at talks between Zuma and the South African Communist Party, allies of the ruling African National Congress (ANC).
ANN7 television said the six most senior members of the ANC had approved Gordhan's removal, citing unnamed sources. ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe, one of the six, told Reuters he could not comment on the report.
On arrival, Gordhan went to the ANC's Luthuli House headquarters in downtown Johannesburg. He then went to a court in the capital Pretoria where he attended a hearing of a case concerning the closure of bank accounts belonging to friends of the president, the Gupta brothers. The case has long been a bone of contention between Zuma and his finance minister.
"The president is my boss so if he asks us to come back, we come back," Gordhan said.
"There are many in government who want to do the right thing and make sure we keep our economy on track and keep our development moving in the right direction," he added, without elaborating.
The National Treasury said in a statement that investors at the roadshow, whose U.S. leg was canceled on Zuma's orders, were concerned about the political environment at home.
"Investors expressed concerns about the political environment and the risk that it could divert attention from setting policies aimed at accelerating growth and creating more work opportunities," the Treasury said.
Some pundits say Gordhan is being pressured by a faction allied to Zuma, which has criticized his plans to rein in government spending as the economy stagnates and rapped his running of the tax agency. Gordhan has wrangled for months with the head of the agency, a Zuma ally.
"We now believe Mr Zuma has reached his own point of no return and will now push his agenda to get rid of Mr Gordhan without regard for the cost or consequences," said political analyst Gary van Staden of NKC African Economics.
Capital Economics Africa economist John Ashbourne said in a note: "Were Pravin Gordhan to actually be removed, we think that the rand could fall by another 5 percent against the USD."
The main opposition Democratic Alliance party asked Zuma to explain why he had ordered the minister home. "Why does he simply not tell South Africa?", it said in a statement.
Gordhan first served as finance minister from 2009 to 2014 and was brought back by Zuma in December 2015 to calm markets spooked by the president's decision to replace his respected successor, Nhlanhla Nene, with a little-known politician.
South African media reports suggest Zuma and Gordhan have an uneasy relationship, though the president has denied they are  "at war".
Zuma has come under mounting political pressure since South Africa's anti-graft watchdog called last year for a judge to investigate allegations of influence-peddling in his government, in particular allegations that brothers Ajay, Atul and Rajesh Gupta wielded undue influence over the president.
Zuma says the Guptas are his friends and denies there is anything improper about the relationship. The brothers have denied any wrongdoing.
The court case Gordhan attended on Tuesday concerns repeated requests by the Guptas that he intervene to help reverse a decision by major banks to close some of the business accounts of the brothers' Oakbay Investments.
Gordhan argues it is inappropriate for the finance minister to get involved between a bank and its clients and has asked the High Court to rule that he has no power to interfere in the banks' decisions.
YOLA, Nigeria (Reuters) - A former Nigerian state governor sentenced to five years in prison for corruption this month has been granted bail on medical grounds pending his appeal, his lawyer said on Tuesday, though prison officials queried the basis of the ruling.
James Bala Ngillari, governor of northeastern Adamawa state for seven months until May 2015, was convicted of awarding a contract for the procurement of 25 vehicles at a cost of 167 million naira ($548,891) without following due process.
Convictions of serving and past government officials remain rare in Nigeria even though President Muhammadu Buhari made a crackdown on corruption a central pillar of his government's approach after taking office in May 2015.
A high court in Yola granted Ngillari bail on Monday over health concerns, Obed Wadzani, his lawyer, told reporters, after a prison medical officer submitted a letter saying the former governor's incarceration had caused high blood pressure.
The letter, the only evidence to support Ngillari's release, recommended he be sent to a hospital in the United Arab Emirates.
Wadzani declined to say whether Ngillari had been released.
Nigeria's anti-corruption watchdog and prison service questioned the validity of the evidence backing the bail judgment.
"I have been directed to query the officers involved," said Peter Tenkwa, the state commander of prison services, adding that the prison service's legal department needed to review the bail ruling.
Ngillari originally took office as the state's deputy governor in 2012 but rose to the top post in 2014 following the impeachment of his predecessor. He served until the current Adamawa state governor won an election in 2015.
BRASÍLIA (Reuters) - Hong Kong said on Tuesday it has lifted a ban on the import of Brazilian meat, removing one of the last blanket bans by a major importer, but strong words from an EU commissioner visiting Brazil suggests the scandal over health standards is not over yet.
"A suspicion of corruption is unacceptable," Vytenis Andriukaitis, EU commissioner for health and food safety, told reporters after meeting with Brazil's Agriculture Minister Blairo Maggi to discuss police allegations that government regulators were paid bribes to turn a blind eye to breaches of sanitation rules.
The Operation "Weak Flesh" probe has hit exports from the world's top beef and poultry exporter. Meat exports fell by around a fifth last week, the trade ministry said.
Andriukaitis said he was happy with Brazil's attempts to clarify the situation but also urged broader action.
"I expect Brazilian authorities to implement corrective actions to restore the credibility of their official controls as soon as possible," he said, adding "the question is not over."
The comments demonstrate the uphill struggle Brazil now has to restore credibility in the competitive global market even as the immediate problem of import bans subsides.
Hong Kong's Center for Food Safety said it eased the ban on Brazilian meat and poultry imports after it received further information from Brazilian authorities, according to statement on its website.
Hong Kong had been one of several major buyers of Brazilian meat that froze imports after Brazil's federal police arrested dozens of people on March 17 and made allegations of corruption in the meat industry. No formal charges have been announced.
Brazil's government moved to block exports from the 21 plants directly implicated in the probe and urged importers to restrict bans to just these units as it campaigned to inform trade partners about standards in the industry, one of the few sectors to have bucked a painful recession in the country.
Most countries have now followed that guidance.
Together with China, which lifted its ban on Saturday, Hong Kong bought nearly one-third of the $14 billion of meat that Latin America's largest economy exported last year.
Hong Kong narrowed its ban to just the 21 plants and voiced confidence in "Brazilian authorities' stringent checks on the procedures for issuing international health certificates."
Agriculture minister Maggi said investigators had not found any products that could harm the health of consumers, but conceded Brazil faced a struggle to recover its market share.
EU officials and their Brazilian counterparts will meet in Brasilia on Thursday to continue discussing the implications of the police probe, Maggi told reporters after talks with Andriukaitis.
The commissioner said during the talks that there was pressure from European consumers to clarify whether Brazilian meat was safe, Maggi said. He said the probe was an isolated problem exaggerated by the federal police.
Brazil has ordered the temporary closure of six of the 21 food processing plants under investigation by the police and health authorities. The other 15 plants are not allowed to export, although they may still produce for the domestic market.
The European Union has maintained a partial ban on products from the 21 meatpacking plants under investigation.
In the United States, pressure is mounting on the federal government to join other nations blocking shipments of raw beef from Brazil. Brazil only gained access to the U.S. market for fresh meat last year, an important seal of approval for other importers.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's National Treasury said on Tuesday investors at a  confidence-building roadshow abroad had expressed concerns about the country's political environment.
Amid reports that he was about to be sacked, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan flew back from Britain to South Africa early on Tuesday, following an abrupt recall by President Jacob Zuma that caused the roadshow to be aborted.
GORAKHPUR, India/NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Since Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi stunned the political establishment by promoting a hardline Hindu priest to one of the country's most powerful positions, Yogi Adityanath has sounded more statesman than rabble-rouser.
Gone is the fiery anti-Muslim rhetoric and promotion of Hindu supremacy for which the saffron-robed 44-year-old is known, and in its place is a message of social inclusion more akin to Modi's language since sweeping to power in 2014.
"My government will be for everyone, not specifically for any caste or community ... We will work for development of all sections and castes," Adityanath said shortly after being made chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state.
The words jar with what the shaven-headed leader of the Gorakhnath sect has been saying from public platforms throughout a political career spanning nearly 20 years.
In his northern power base - the down-at-heel town of Gorakhpur near the Nepalese border - Adityanath's more conciliatory comments have done little to dispel unease among members of the Muslim community, who make up nearly a fifth of Uttar Pradesh's 200 million or so people.
"We should just go about doing our job and pray the Hindu Yuva Vahini doesn't take over mosques to build new temples," said local driver Aijaz Sheikh, referring to the Hindu Youth Force set up by Adityanath in 2002 to carry out his agenda.
"If we react then we will pay the price. The loss will be ours and no Hindu will come to stand with us in Gorakhpur."
Adityanath's ascent has prompted widespread questions about India's secular status, and whether Modi, himself a product of a nationalist Hindu upbringing, intends to pursue more aggressive pro-Hindu policies as he pursues economic reforms.
Adityanath was a key campaigner for Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh elections, and the thumping victory he helped deliver underlined how a divisive candidate could eclipse rivals who tried to reach out across communities.
"With Yogi Adityanath's appointment, vigilantism has been upgraded into state policy," said Gilles Verniers, assistant professor of political sciences at Ashoka University outside Delhi.
In a gleaming white temple compound in Gorakhpur, people crowd Adityanath's offices to petition his band of fanatical followers in the Hindu Youth Force to settle their personal grievances.
Clerks hammer out their requests on old mechanical typewriters, handing them to members of the force to deal with.
Not all disputes concern religion, but Adityanath's devotees say their main mission is to fight against creeping encroachment by Uttar Pradesh's Muslim community.
"It was a very difficult period for Hindus and for Yogi ji," Mahesh Poddar, a textile merchant who was one of the first people to join the youth force, told Reuters in the temple compound.
"We felt like we were living in a country that doesn't belong to us."
Adityanath declined requests for an interview on past actions and his plans as chief minister.
Since his March 19 swearing-in, he has pushed policies that are an extension of Modi's nationwide agenda, notably demanding state ministers declare their incomes and assets as part of a crackdown on corruption.
At the same time, he has instructed officials to prepare to shut down all mechanized abattoirs, part of a campaign pledge that appealed to Hindus because they view cows as sacred and because slaughterhouses are run mainly by Muslims.
The slaughter of cows is, in fact, prohibited in Uttar Pradesh, although not always enforced, but a blanket ban would also hurt buffalo meat exports.
Meat traders in the state said on Monday they had launched a strike to protest against the closure of butcher's shops and slaughterhouses considered illegal.
"We are not selling drugs or indulging in criminal activities. We sell meat to feed our families but the government is targeting us because we are Muslims," Raza Quereshi, a member of the Meat Producers' Association, told Reuters.
Police have also deployed "anti-Romeo squads" to keep men and women apart in public to protect women from harassment.
But they are also seen by some as an extension of Adityanath's battle against what he calls "love jihad", or entrapment of Hindu women to convert them to Islam.
Religious tensions sporadically flare into violence in India, including in 1992 when more than 2,000 people were killed in clashes between Muslims and Hindus sparked by the demolition of a mosque on a contested site in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh.
Adityanath, born in the northern state of Uttarakhand, left his family to join the Gorakhnath sect and was quickly chosen to succeed its chief priest. He was elected to parliament in 1998 in his mid-20s and has won re-election four times.
During his career, he has earned a reputation as a fringe firebrand.
News channels have aired footage of some of his public comments, including in 2007 when he said: "If they (Muslims) convert one Hindu girl, we will convert 100 Muslim girls ... if they kill one Hindu, we will also kill 100 Muslims."
Like many Indian politicians, Adityanath also faces a string of criminal cases, disclosed in the affidavit he filed as a candidate in the 2014 general election.
These include attempted murder, criminal intimidation, promoting religious enmity and defiling a place of worship.
No charges have been framed and Adityanath has said the cases against him were baseless and politically motivated.
In one seen by Reuters at a local police station, a local Muslim politician called Talat Aziz accused Adityanath of deliberately provoking a clash between Muslims and Hindus in 1999 that led to the death of a 26-year-old police constable.
She is still fighting the case, which is pending before a local court.
Close aide Balu Rai said Adityanath had provided ample evidence to prove he was not involved in the death.
Officials in Modi's office expressed confidence in Adityanath and said they expected him to change his image and policies for the good of the state.
And although he has clashed with the BJP before and his sect has maintained independence from the ruling party, some expect Adityanath to conform to Modi's wishes now he is chief minister.
"He is a rabble-rouser whom the party has been using to communalize the agenda, the elections and the discourse," said journalist and historian Akshaya Mukul. "But I don't see him slipping beyond the control of the high command."
TUNIS (Reuters) - A young man trying to enter the Tunisian parliament was arrested on Tuesday when a scanner at the entrance detected that he had a knife, officials said.
The man was placed under investigation for carrying a knife without authorization, the interior ministry said in a statement.
According to the statement, the man said he was carrying the knife for self-defense after being the victim of a robbery. It said he had been invited to visit by a member of parliament.
Security at the parliament building in Tunis has been tightened since Islamist gunmen stormed the neighboring Bardo Museum two years ago and killed 21 foreign tourists.
WARSAW (Reuters) - The leaders of four Central European countries vowed on Tuesday not to be blackmailed by threats of financial punishment from Brussels if they don't join in the relocation of thousands of Middle Eastern and African refugees.
Austria also said it will seek an exemption from having to accept more asylum-seekers, arguing that it has already taken in its fair share during Europe's migration crisis.
The prime ministers of the Visegrad Group (V4) -- Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic -- said they have a sovereign right to decide how to deal with the migrants who have flooded into the continent mainly from the war in Syria.
The EU's top migration official warned member states last week against failing to host refugees to help alleviate the pressure on countries like Greece and Italy, which have borne the brunt of arrivals across the Mediterranean.
A number of politicians in the western EU have also spoken in favor of the bloc's plans to take actions against countries that do not want to accept refugees, including having their EU funding cut.
"Poland and the Visegrad Group will never agree to this blackmail or to such conditions to be dictated," Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydlo told reporters journalists after the V4 meeting.
Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico also said it was "blackmail" to tie the issue of EU funding to migration policy.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has called mass migration a "Trojan horse for terrorism" also defended his new policy to detain migrants at the border.
Fewer than 14,500 asylum-seekers have been relocated from Greece and Italy under the two-year EU plan that was supposed to cover 160,000 people and which expires in September.
Some 1.6 million refugees and migrants reached the European Union between 2014 and 2016 and how to handle them has been a major point of contention between member states.
"The current migration policy has failed the exam," Szydlo said.
KINSHASA (Reuters) - Congolese police fired bullets into the air and launched tear gas canisters to try to disperse hundreds of opposition supporters in Kinshasa on Tuesday, after talks between the opposition and President Joseph Kabila's government fizzled out.
A Reuters witness saw opposition members gathering at the home of the late Etienne Tshisekedi, former leader of the Democratic Republic of the Congo's main opposition party, during a news conference with his son, Felix, the new UDPS party leader.
(This version of the story was refiled to make clear events in Democratic Republic of Congo)
Dead Sea, JORDAN (Reuters) - Divided Arab leaders arriving in Jordan for a summit on Wednesday are seeking common ground to reaffirm their commitment to a Palestinian state, a longstanding goal that U.S. President Donald Trump last month put into doubt.
The Dead Sea meeting is expected to have a bigger turnout than recent Arab summits, Jordanian officials say, and security forces cast a high profile in the capital Amman with armored vehicles standing at traffic junctions as leaders flew in.
While they are highly unlikely to bridge rifts over the regional role of Iran or intractable wars in Syria and Yemen, Arab leaders remain united in supporting a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
"We are concerned that there should be an Arab consensus on the Palestinian file so that this reflects clearly in the discussions of Arab states and their leaders with the new American administration," Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki told Reuters.
Before taking office in January, Trump promised to move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem - something adamantly opposed by Arabs as tantamount, in their view, to recognizing Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem.
The Palestinians want Arab East Jerusalem - which Israel captured in a 1967 war and later annexed in a move not recognized internationally - as the capital of a future state encompassing the Israeli-occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks have been frozen since 2014.
Trump also, during a White House news conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last month, he indicated he was open to a one-state solution to the conflict.
That would be deeply problematic for both sides, as it would mean either two systems for two peoples - something Palestinians would see as apartheid and endless occupation - or equal rights for all, which would compromise Israel’s Jewish character.
The Arab monarchs and presidents attending Wednesday's summit will meet at the Dead Sea, only a few km (miles) from the West Bank and with Israeli settlements visible to the naked eye.
The United States is sending a representative to the summit, Maliki said. Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi and Jordan's King Abdullah are both scheduled to meet Trump soon.
A draft resolution on Jerusalem and seen by Reuters will require all Arab states to respond to any move by any country to move its embassy there, without specifying the United States.
"The Palestinian issue is the central issue. It is the root cause of conflict in the region and its resolution is the key to peace and stability. We hope we will be able to again relaunch efforts that would get serious negotiations restarted again," said Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi.
The biggest disagreement among Arab countries is over the regional role of Iran, an ally of Syria and Iraq and the Shi'ite Hezbollah movement that dominates Lebanon, but regarded by Saudi Arabia and some other Sunni Muslim states as a bitter adversary.
Shi'ite Iran and Saudi Arabia support opposing sides in the civil wars in Syria and Yemen, which have caused humanitarian catastrophes, and in political and factional disputes simmering for years in Bahrain and Lebanon.
The Middle East's political feuds have stoked sectarian tensions between Islam's main Sunni and Shi'ite branches in recent years, contributing to increased militant violence.
"We meet in a difficult Arab era dominated by crisis and conflicts that deprive our region of the security and stability they need to attain our people's rights," Safadi said in a meeting with fellow foreign ministers before the summit.
A Jordanian official told Reuters that the final statement from the summit was expected to include a condemnation of Iran for what it called meddling in internal Arab affairs, and to call on it to refrain from using force or threats. Iran denies any such interference.
A summit meeting of the Organization for Islamic Cooperation included a similar line in its final statement last year.
Friction also smolders between Saudi Arabia, the richest Arab state, and Egypt, the most populous one - close allies for decades before the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings - over approaches to Syria's war and the demarcation of their marine border.
The kingdom's oil giant Saudi Aramco resumed petroleum shipments to Egypt earlier this month, suggesting relations may be improving, and Egypt's Sisi is hoping for a bilateral meeting with King Salman in Amman this week.
"There could actually be a product of the Arab summit - a unified attitude towards Washington's policy in Palestine. They might disagree on all other issues, but I think this is the unifying one," said Mustafa Alani, an Iraqi security expert with close ties to the Saudi Interior Ministry.
BERLIN (Reuters) - As the United Kingdom prepares to trigger its divorce from the European Union, many Britons who have made Berlin their home are scrambling to get German citizenship as they try to ease worries about whether they can stay after Brexit.
Around 100,000 British nationals live across Germany, benefiting from the freedom of EU citizens to reside in any of the bloc's 28 member states they choose.
However, Prime Minister Theresa May is due to invoke Article 50 of the EU treaty on Wednesday, opening negotiations over the country's departure which will deprive Britons of automatic residency rights in the bloc - unless the two sides do a deal to preserve them.
Elizabeth Wood, a 43-year-old who moved to Berlin with her boyfriend eight years ago, is hoping to become naturalized after Britons' vote for Brexit last year caught her unprepared.
"We all weren't expecting it. So, now it's just panic trying to make back-up plans - just in case the worst actually happens," said Wood, who works with online startup businesses and whose two daughters were born in Germany.
She is preparing for a citizenship test, for which there is a three-month waiting list, on April 29. She needs to pass a German language test, prove she does not need benefit payments and fill in lots of paperwork.
There are no national figures for how many Britons have applied for German citizenship. However, a survey by newspaper Die Welt showed 480 Britons in three cities with large  expatriate communities - Berlin, Hamburg and Frankfurt am Main - applied last year, up from just 79 in 2015.
Across the country, 622 British citizens were naturalized in 2015, the Federal Statistics Office said.
People who have been living in Germany for at least eight years can apply for citizenship, provided they already have unlimited residency rights and meet a number of conditions. Those married to German nationals can be naturalized after being legally resident in the country for three years, again as long as they fulfill certain conditions.
Michael Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, has said securing the rights of Britons living elsewhere in the EU - and of EU citizens living in Britain - is paramount. May has said she wants the issue dealt with as a priority, while insisting a solution should be reciprocal.
Dale Carr, who owns a store in Berlin selling British chocolates, snacks and souvenir items featuring the Union Jack flag, is desperate to retain the EU citizenship rights that she calls an "incredible gift" and so has applied for German citizenship.
"I have no faith that we are anywhere on anybody's priority lists ... Has anybody contacted us? No! Anyone from the embassies come out to talk to expats in Berlin? I don't know - if they have, I've not heard of it," she said.
Others who have not been in Germany long enough to get citizenship by themselves are thinking about creative solutions.
"I am opening myself up to a marriage, if you know anyone who would like to get married to a gentleman with an afro in exchange for some type of passport," joked British-Zimbabwean Mhlanguli Ncube, who has been in Berlin for three years.
Other Britons cling to the hope that their country never leaves, despite the 52-48 percent referendum vote in favor.
Graeme du Plessis, a 24 year-old who has been in Berlin for 18 months, said he was still "living in a la la land" thinking Brexit might not come to pass.
But du Plessis, who comes from the town of Epsom just outside London, said he was not necessarily planning to remain in Berlin forever and would probably not go to great lengths to stay if there were problems.
Gavin Watson hopes his home country of Scotland, which voted against Brexit in the June referendum, can achieve independence from the United Kingdom and remain in the EU.
Watson, 32, feels settled in Berlin and wants to stay. He recently bought a dog, lives with his girlfriend and works at a British start-up firm.
However, Scottish voters already rejected independence in 2014 and May says now is not the time for another referendum, so he does not rule out seeking German citizenship.
"Nobody has got any answers or ideas about what happens to people who live in Europe or EU nationals who live in the UK... so I think at some point I have to look into it," he said.
ABIDJAN (Reuters) - Democratic Republic of Congo's government confirmed on Tuesday that two bodies discovered by villagers were those of two U.N. investigators who disappeared this month in an area wracked by a violent uprising.
"It's now a certainty. It is the two investigators. We identified the third body in the grave with them as their Congolese interpreter," Communications Minister Lambert Mende said.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Europe's second-highest court on Tuesday lifted sanctions on the daughter of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, arguing the changed situation in Libya no longer justified the measures.
As part of sanctions imposed in 2011 over serious human rights violations in Libya, Aisha Muammer Mohamed El-Gaddafi was included on a list of people subjected by EU governments to a travel ban and a freeze on their financial assets.
At the time, the European Union's General Court, only lower than the Court of Justice, approved the sanctions based on "closeness of association with (the) regime."
Oman granted asylum to some of Gaddafi's family in 2013, including Aisha and her brother Hannibal who were both wanted by Interpol.
In 2014, the EU amended its sanctions but kept Aisha on the list and rejected her requests to be removed.
She sued, arguing there was no clear reason why she remained under restrictions after the death of her father and the fall of his regime.
The court has now agreed, lifted the sanctions and ordered EU governments to pay the legal costs of the case.
PARIS (Reuters) - France must curb its reliance on Russian and Ukrainian firms for its military support fleet to move troops and hardware to war zones, a parliamentary report on Tuesday showed.
The French military has been increasingly stretched during President Francois Hollande's five years in office with thousands of troops based overseas after interventions in Mali, Central Africa and operations in the Middle East.
The report's author Francois Cornut-Gentille said the reliance on Russian and Ukrainian operators was a "veritable Damocles sword" hanging over French forces.
"These interventions were only made possible thanks to Russian and Ukrainian deployment capacities and in a legal and financial framework that was not a priority," Cornut-Gentille said.
"Naturally, the urgency explained this context. However, it would be extremely unwise to extend this in the long-term."
According to the bi-partisan report by parliament's finance committee, the military only has a quarter of what it needs in terms of strategic transport deployment capacity, which includes 19 planes ranging from between 22 to 50 years in age.
Twelve new Airbus A330 MRTT are set to replace them starting in 2018, but that will not fill the shortfall, the report showed.
Paris has been hamstrung too by delays in the A400M troop carrier, which also lacks the necessary capacity.
As a result, France has been forced to use Antonov 124 airlift planes sourced from Flight Unit FU-224, linked to Russia's defense ministry, Volga Dniepr, a Russian private company, and Ukraine's Antonov Airlines ADB.
French-Russian relations have been strained by Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea in 2014 and over Russia's role in the war in Syria. Outgoing President Hollande has played a key role in imposing sanctions on Russia over Ukraine.
Cornut-Gentille said the reliance on the Antonov 124 and the countries they came from meant Paris was at risk of deteriorating relations that "could totally paralyze its aerial  deployment".
In 2015, FU-224 suspended its flights for France at the request of the Russian government as relations between the two countries cooled over the Ukrainian crisis.
"In reality, despite the big statements, the strategic autonomy is virtual," Cornut-Gentille said.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - NATO envoys will hold a formal meeting with Russia on Thursday, their fourth since the 2014 crisis in Ukraine halted regular talks, although both sides continue to accuse each other of destabilizing eastern Europe.
The NATO-Russia Council, the forum bringing together NATO ambassadors and Russia's top diplomat to the U.S.-led alliance, is seen as a way to prevent tensions escalating by explaining each other's positions, even when joint exercises and peacekeeping have been suspended.
"The NATO-Russia Council is an important platform for dialogue to reduce tensions and increase transparency and predictability," NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said.
U.S. President Donald Trump, an admirer of his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, is seeking better ties with the Kremlin on a range of issues, including fighting Islamist militants. Western diplomats said it was not clear if the chances of East-West cooperation had improved under Trump.
On Thursday's agenda is the separatist conflict in Ukraine that the West accuses Russia of orchestrating. Moscow denies that, but Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea remains divisive.
Troop movements by both NATO and Russia will be discussed, as well as Moscow's deployment of missiles to its Baltic exclave of Kaliningrad, diplomats said.
Afghanistan will also be on the agenda, but it is not clear if NATO's top commander will address his suspicions that Russia may be supplying Taliban insurgents. Moscow has rejected that as a lie.
The Council comes just weeks after the first telephone call in two years between the head of NATO's military committee, General Petr Pavel, and the chief of the Russian General Staff Valery Gerasimov. Pavel is seeking a face-to-face meeting.
"The rhythm of the Council's work is gradually recovering," Russia's Ambassador to NATO Alexander Grushko said, referring to the meetings that restarted after a near two-year hiatus last April.
Russia is concerned about NATO's deployment of some 4,000 troops to the Baltic states and Poland, of whom some are already in place and the rest are due by June.
The alliance will seek to provide reassurance that the build-up is defensive. NATO governments say the measures are modest compared with the 330,000 troops the alliance believes Russia has amassed on its western flank near Moscow since May.
The allies say the four battalions, backed by additional U.S. forces on rotation, are justified by the Russian seizure of  Crimea from Ukraine, which provoked fears in the Baltics that they might be next.
LA PAZ (Reuters) - Bolivian President Evo Morales said on Tuesday he is returning to Cuba to have a small nodule in his vocal cords removed, in what would be the socialist leader's second trip to the communist-ruled nation for medical attention this month.
"Tomorrow night I will travel with urgency. I don't feel pain, it's hoarse," Morales, 57, told a group of coca farmers in the Bolivian capital La Paz. "I feel that everyday it's getting worse, and it's better to quickly have this minor surgery."
Morales, who has led the Andean nation for 11 years, went to Cuba for treatment earlier this month after he was forced to cancel public appearances due to a severe sore throat.
He had initially planned to return to Cuba in April for minor throat surgery expected to last 15 to 20 minutes, Cuban state media reported during his visit earlier this month.
Morales won a third presidential term in 2014 but is barred constitutionally from running for a fourth consecutive term. Last year he said he may look for a way to run again even though he lost a referendum on the issue.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said he would defend the rights of expatriates once Prime Minister Theresa May triggers Britain's withdrawal from the EU on Wednesday.
"Brexit made EU citizens worry about their future in EU27 and UK. EU will be firm on their rights," the former French foreign minister tweeted on Tuesday after meeting campaigners for the rights of EU citizens living in Britain.
The campaign group, known as the3milion, wants the three million citizens of the other 27 EU member states who live in Britain to be assured they can stay after Brexit in two years' time. A million or so Britons live in other EU countries.
Laying out his priorities ahead of May's notification of withdrawal, Barnier said last week that guaranteeing the rights of European citizens who had chosen to live abroad would be "an absolute priority from the very start". [nL5N1GZ5DP]
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey was warning Europe not to interfere in a referendum next month on changing the constitution and expanding President Tayyip Erdogan's powers, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Tuesday, adding Europe should "mind its own business".
The issue of the referendum has already badly strained relations between Turkey and several European countries, including Germany and the Netherlands, after they banned Turkish ministers from campaigning in their cities ahead of the April 16 referendum.
Yildirim made the comments at a referendum rally in the southern Anatolian province of Karaman.
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's relationship with the United States has not been harmed by unproven claims made on a U.S. television station that it helped eavesdrop on Donald Trump, foreign minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday.
"It has certainly done no lasting damage to our relationship, certainly not to the special relationship, and certainly not to intelligence sharing, which of course will carry on between our countries," Johnson told parliament.
Earlier this month, Britain's GCHQ intelligence agency dismissed the allegations, made by Fox News analyst Andrew Napolitano, as "utterly ridiculous".
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey, the United States and Russia must coordinate fully to clear Syria of terrorist groups and the three countries' chiefs of staff were working to prevent clashes between the different parties in the country, Turkey's prime minister said.
Binali Yildirim, speaking at a news conference in Ankara, said a risk of clashes would emerge if there was not full coordination. President Tayyip Erdogan last week said the next target of Turkey's Syrian operation was Manbij, which is controlled by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF).
ANKARA (Reuters) - Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Tuesday it was unfortunate that some of Turkey's allies had chosen the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia as a partner in the fight against Islamic State in Syria.
Yildirim's comments, at a news conference, were made as the military chiefs of Turkey, the United States and Russia met in the southern Turkish province of Antalya to discuss regional security, notably in Syria and Iraq.
Turkey views the YPG as an extension of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which is waging an insurgency in Turkey.
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Thousands of teachers took to the streets of Buenos Aires on Monday, delaying the first day of school for millions of children, as part of a two-day national strike demanding a wage increase to compensate for sky-high inflation last year.
The strike poses a test for center-right President Mauricio Macri's administration, which is increasingly clashing with the country's powerful unions ahead of legislative elections in October. Macri's coalition is banking on success in the midterm vote to continue its agenda of market-friendly reforms.
The outcome of Argentina's annual wage negotiations are closely watched by economists as salary hikes far above the central bank's target for 12-17 percent inflation in 2017 could make it more difficult for the government to control inflation.
Monday's strike comes after unions and many provincial governments failed to reach salary agreements, with teachers demanding that wage hikes compensate for purchasing power lost in 2016, when inflation totaled around 40 percent.
"The strike is massive across the whole country," Roberto Baradel, a Buenos Aires province teachers' union leader, said in an interview with local television channel Crónica.
Teachers in Argentina's largest province of Buenos Aires have demanded wage increases of 35 percent for 2017, while Governor Maria Eugenia Vidal - a close Macri ally - has offered them an 18 percent raise.
In a speech last month, central bank President Federico Sturzenegger said salary hikes "slightly above" the central bank's target would not compromise the monetary authority's ability to meet its target.
The bank workers' union, seen as a bellwether for the rest of the private sector, reached a deal with employers for a 24.3 percent wage increase last month.
Unions are becoming more vocal in their opposition to some of Macri's pro-market policies. Since taking over in December 2015 after more than a decade of populist rule, Macri has allowed the peso currency to float, reduced subsidies and eliminated tariffs intended to promote domestic manufacturing.
A promised wave of investments has not yet arrived and the economy has struggled to rebound from a deep recession. On Tuesday, the country's largest union has planned another protest to demand higher salaries and demonstrate against layoffs.
"I greatly regret that they have chosen the opportunistic route of a strike," Macri said of the teachers while visiting a rural school in Argentina's northwestern Jujuy province.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said nobody would be able to prevent his visit to Germany later on Tuesday and that Turkey would give the necessary response if faced with hostility on the matter.
Cavusoglu made the comments at a meeting in Istanbul with foreign diplomats ahead of a visit to Hamburg where he is due to attend a rally with Turkish voters despite local authorities' closure of the venue where he had been due to speak.
A row between NATO allies Turkey and Germany escalated over the past week after German authorities withdrew permission for three other rallies in support of President Tayyip Erdogan's plans to overhaul Turkey's constitution and win greater powers. Cavusoglu called the cancellations "biased and shameful".
Cavusoglu also warned that Europe would return to a pre-World War II era if it did not prevent the rise of "racist parties", and said the continent had become captive to populist politicians such as Dutch nationalist Geert Wilders.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Fighting between rival people-smuggling gangs on Libya's Mediterranean coast has killed 22 people, the International Organization for Migration said on Tuesday.
The dead were thought to be migrants rather than smugglers because they were sub-Saharan Africans, IOM spokesman Joel Millman said. More than 100 people were wounded, he told a news briefing in Geneva, citing information from colleagues in Libya.
The latest deaths come in addition to the 140 bodies found on Libyan beaches so far this year, while there have been 477 deaths at sea on the route from Libya.
So far this year 15,760 migrants have arrived in Italy, up from 9,101 in the same period of 2016, while almost 3,000 migrants have been rescued at sea and brought back to Libya, Millman said.
The number of migrants setting off for Italy by boat from Africa has risen more than 50 percent so far this year, after half a million people arrived during the past three years.
Italy is promising to send more migrants who do not qualify for asylum back home, either by force or with their consent.
"This is creating all kinds of activity in the smuggling industry, and apparently that activity has reached the level of violent shootouts that left 22 killed in the last couple of days," Millman said.
He also said 62 Syrians also showed up among migrants arriving in Italy. Syrian refugees have mainly gone to Europe via Turkey and Greece, a route which was effectively blocked last year by a deal between the European Union and Turkey. Fewer than 200 Syrians made the trip from Libya to Italy last year.
"So with 62, obviously we're not setting records, but it could be a shift showing that traffic has come back across North Africa, maybe coming to Libya again," Millman said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on Tuesday it was essential for the remaining 27 members of the European Union to stick together in the looming "Brexit" negotiations with Britain on its desire to leave the EU.
Schaeuble also told a group of foreign journalists in Berlin that he believes Brexit negotiations will be difficult and complicated. He said that at the conclusion of the negotiations it should be clear to everyone that remaining on the inside the EU has more advantages than being on the outside.
"Now it's important that we in the EU27 stick together," Schaeuble said, adding that it would be important to show other EU countries they should not be tempted to follow Britain out by thinking one could have the benefits of EU membership without meeting its obligations.
Schaeuble, who also said Germany is open to new forms of cooperation with Britain, has also said in the past that he wants a "reasonable" Brexit deal for the City of London.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's Communist leaders will this week introduce sweeping new laws that codify social responsibilities for the country's 1.4 billion citizens while also providing some modest new protections.
The preamble of what state media is calling China's "declaration of rights" will be announced on Wednesday and is expected to be passed by the close of the National People's Congress (NPC) on March 15, paving the way for more detailed laws expected to be passed in 2020.
The changes are part of President Xi Jinping's wider push to align the legal system with the country's social and economic modernization and for some legal reformers, the code is a test of how far China will go in allowing civil liberties that might impinge upon state power.
"Civil law is the fundamental doctrine for a country's legal system, the source of its basic essence," Liang Ying, head of the NPC Legislative Affairs Research institute, told state media on Sunday.
"A foundational civil (law) system is an important sign of whether a country's legal system is mature."
Xi has made governing the nation by law a top priority of his tenure though he has drawn a line at allowing the courts to expand their power at the expense of the Communist Party's control.
Since pledging to reform and open in 1978, China has been gradually shifting its legal system away from a socialist law towards something closer to a European-style legal system.
In 2011, China declared that "socialist legal system with Chinese characteristics" had been established, but officials themselves say China's laws remains a work in progress.
The preamble, which was released in draft form to the public in June last year, seeks to address some of the legal issues that have gnawed at public consciousness in recent years, such as who is responsible for China's abandoned children and elderly, or what protections cover so-called "Good Samaritans".
China's incomplete legal system was heavily criticized for an incident in 2011 when multiple passersby ignored a toddler knocked to the ground in a hit-and-run.
Shocked observers said the lack of clarity on civil rights leaves helpers at risk of liability when coming to the aid of strangers.
Reformers also hope the code will resolve the issue of guardianship for "left behind" children whose parents work away from home and "empty nest" elderly folk who are similarly abandoned by their children.
One issue that lawyers say remains mostly unresolved in the draft code is that of property rights.
Most Chinese homeowners do not legally own the land on which their homes are built. Instead, they lease the rights to use the property for a limited number of years from the government, an arrangement that creates uncertainty for buyers.
"Whether farmers or city folk, businessman or scientists, an inability to guarantee your own property in the way that other nations allow will impact social stability," said Li Shu, a lawyer at Anli Law Firm in Beijing.
But Philip Cheng, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells in Shanghai, said a provision in the current draft requiring civil activities to be carried out in a "fair" and "reasonable" manner could help with certain property disputes.
It may, for example, allow companies and individuals to be paid market rates for land that is rezoned to produce new housing in major cities or make way for industrial development, he said.
Many legal experts say the latest draft of general rules that form the basis of the code falls short of enshrining sweeping private rights and makes little progress in key areas including property and civil liberties.
Another issue: how far the code will go in defending the rights of individuals, known as "personality rights", a broad term Chinese legal experts use to talk about the basic rights each individual should enjoy.
Health, reputation, image, name and freedom are included, but the term is significantly narrower and de-politicized compared to human rights, according to Chinese academics.
Proponents of individual rights have called for a dedicated section of the code, while others worry granting too many private rights could lead to revolution.
The current scope of personality rights in the draft rules makes them "seriously imbalanced", according to Xu Xianming, deputy chairman of the National People's Legal Association, an advocate for more personal freedoms being included in the code.
"First, the list of rights is incomplete; second, the number of rights is insufficient; third, the civil rights system is curtailed," Xu wrote last year in an essay for the official magazine of China's parliament.
As China's constitution cannot be cited in court, rights must be passed by parliament before can they be protected, Xu argued.
China's constitution on paper promises freedom of speech, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly among others. In practice, however, such provisions are not considered legally actionable and the party's right to govern as it sees fit takes precedent.
Liang Huixing, a scholar at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, has repeatedly warned that writing personality rights into the civil code might lead to a "color revolution" in China, referring to mass political movements in former Soviet Union states in the early 2000s.
ROME (Reuters) - Italian farmers from regions ravaged by earthquakes brought sheep to central Rome on Tuesday to protest what they say are serious delays in reconstruction efforts.
More than 10,000 farm animals have been killed or injured by quake damage and subsequent freezing weather, farmers' association Coldiretti said.
Outside parliament, a makeshift paddock housed three sheep rescued from areas struck by tremors while farmers waved flags and banners reading "Bureaucracy is more deadly than earthquakes".
Thousands of farming businesses are housed in the central regions of Lazio, Marche, Abruzzo and Umbria where tremors have rumbled since August.
Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni has approved a draft law to help people affected by the quakes, including 35 million euros  ($37 million) to compensate farmers for lost income.
The law also aims to make it easier for regional governments to buy temporary stalls. Farmers say about 85 percent of their livestock need shelter.
"Breeders still don't know where to put their surviving cows, pigs and sheep, which are either stuck out in the cold, at risk of death and disease, or in derelict buildings," the farm association said.
Stress caused by cold and fear has reduced milk production in the region by 30 percent. Local crops like lentils are also at risk as seeds cannot be sown on fractured land, it added.
The agriculture ministry said the process of releasing emergency funds to farmers was under way.
($1 = 0.9458 euros)
LYON, France (Reuters) - No one was killed in an avalanche that swept past several skiers on Tuesday in Tignes, authorities in the French Alpine resort said.
The avalanche was triggered shortly before 10 A.M. (0900 GMT) in an off-piste area of the vast resort and swept across a relatively easy "blue" slope often used by inexperienced skiers and children.
"Several skiers have been shaken up and taken care of by resort personnel. Emergency staff were deployed immediately. After the search operations, there are no victims to report," a statement from the resort said.
First aid workers had initially told Reuters that many skiers had been swept away by the avalanche.
Snow was falling, visibility was poor and the avalanche risk was rated high at four on a scale of five at the resort on Tuesday.
Conditions made it hard for rescue workers from outside the area to fly in by helicopter.
Skiers were evacuated by resort staff and police, while pistes were temporarily closed. The resort said later that the station remained open, though some areas were off-limits.
Four people were killed in an avalanche at Tignes on Feb. 13.
THE HAGUE (Reuters) - Russia accused Ukraine on Tuesday of taking it to court under false pretences, using allegations of financing terrorism and ethnic discrimination as a front to litigate Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimean peninsula three years ago.
The accusation came on the second day of hearings at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, where Ukraine has charged that Russia is financing separatist groups who carry out "terrorist" attacks in eastern Ukraine and that Russia is discriminating against Crimea's ethnic Tartars.
Those actions violate two international treaties, Ukraine says.
Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 after weeks of increasingly violent street clashes led Ukraine's Moscow-backed President Viktor Yanukovych to flee the country. The annexation brought east-west tensions to their highest pitch in decades.
This week's hearings relate to Ukraine's request for an order that Russia halt the alleged activities. The broader question of whether they are taking place will take longer to resolve: ICJ cases often last years.
Lawyers for Russia urged judges to reject Ukraine's case, since the Black Sea peninsula's annexation was beyond its jurisdiction.
"Ukraine uses the word 'terrorism' as a pretext for seizing this court," Russian foreign ministry official Ilya Rogachev said.
Russia has repeatedly denied sending troops or military equipment to eastern Ukraine, where a war has been raging between the Moscow-backed separatists and forces loyal to Kiev ever since Yanukovych's deposition.
The provisional measures Ukraine requests include a freeze on providing money, weapons, vehicles, equipment, training or personnel to the separatists.
Ukraine says in its filing the pro-Russian separatists were responsible for the bombardment of residential areas and the downing of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17 in July 2014, in which 298 passengers and crew - many of them Dutch - were killed.
In September 2016, a six-country investigative team led by the Netherlands said the plane had been shot down with a Russian-manufactured Buk surface-to-air missile from an area controlled by pro-Russian forces.
Outside the courthouse, relatives of the Dutch victims of the MH-17 disaster held a small demonstration. "We are here to call on Russia to take responsibility," said Thomas Schansman, who lost his son in the crash.
Russia has dismissed the findings as biased and politically motivated.
While the ICJ's rulings are final and cannot be appealed, it has few means of enforcing its rulings. In the past, powerful countries have ignored its rulings or boycotted its hearings.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Members of the Danish parliament's foreign policy committee have been asked to leave smartphones, tablets and computers at home during a visit to Russia at a time of increased security concerns.
"Goodbye smartphone," former Foreign Minister Martin Lidegaard of the Social Liberal Party said in a post on Facebook.
"On the way to Russia with the Foreign Policy Committee, where we have been advised not to bring gadgets for the sake of safety," Lidegaard wrote.
During his time as foreign minister, Lidegaard said the European Union should prepare for more hybrid warfare from Russia.
Nick Haekkerup of the Social Democrats, Denmark's main opposition party, said on Facebook he would have to manage without internet, mails and social media for a week
"I'm traveling with the Foreign Policy Committee and have for security reasons been asked to leave everything like iPhone, iPad or similar at home," Haekkerup said.
Danish ministries have been attacked several times in 2015 and 2016 by a foreign, state-sponsored hacking group, a cyber security unit within the defense ministry said in a February report.
The unit declined to specify which country had sponsored the hacking group but said in the report that Russia and China have extensive capabilities to carry out cyber espionage.
The threat from cyber crime against Danish authorities and companies continues to be "very high", according to the report.
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded last year that Russia hacked and leaked Democrat emails during the 2016 presidential election campaign as part of an effort to tilt the vote in Republican Donald Trump's favor. Russia has denied the allegations.
Danish authorities did not immediately respond to Reuters' requests for further information.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's defense ministry has decided to buy high-altitude MQ-4C Triton unmanned surveillance planes built by U.S. weapons maker Northrop Grumman Corp for deliveries after 2025, ministry sources said on Tuesday.
The new drones will replace the Euro Hawk program, which Berlin canceled in May 2013 after it became clear that it could cost up to 600 million euros to get the system approved for use in civil airspace.
The sources confirmed a story originally reported by the Sueddeutsche Zeitung.
The plan, which must still be approved by parliament, calls for Germany to buy the new aircraft from the U.S. Navy, which awarded Northrop a contract to design the unmanned aircraft in April 2008. Sensors for the new aircraft are to be built by Airbus, as planned under the previous program, the sources said.
It was not immediately clear how many planes the ministry would buy, or at what cost. Under the canceled program, it had planned to buy five Euro Hawk aircraft for 1.2 billion euros.
Experts do not expect to run into any problems winning aviation approval for the new aircraft, which is launched from land and is programmed to fly autonomously as high as 60,000 feet to gather a wide array of intelligence data.
Then-Defence Minister Thomas de Maiziere came under  pressure after he was forced to cancel the previous Euro Hawk program in 2013 after it became clear it would cost hundreds of millions of euros to win aviation approval for the aircraft.
Ursula von der Leyen was moved into the defense minister job later that year, and took office vowing to reform Germany's ineffective procurement system.
Northrop developed the Triton, a marine-based variant of its initial Global Hawk surveillance drone, for the U.S. Navy. Ministry sources said the aviation approval for Triton would be less costly because it was baked in from the start of the program.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - U.S.-backed Syrian militias will tighten the chokehold on Islamic State's base in Raqqa, after cutting the last main road out of the city, a spokesman said on Tuesday.
The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) severed the highway between Raqqa and the jihadists' stronghold of Deir al-Zor province on Monday, dealing a major blow to Islamic State which is under intense military pressure in both Syria and Iraq.
Islamic State is losing ground to three separate campaigns in northern Syria - by the SDF militias, by the Russian-backed Syrian army, and by Turkey and allied Syrian rebels.
The  SDF advance means all main roads out of Raqqa are now cut. The U.S.-backed militias now plan to capture surrounding rural areas and advance towards the city to isolate it completely, SDF spokesman Talal Silo told Reuters.
In some areas, the militias were still up to 20 kilometers from the city limits, he added.
The SDF alliance, including the Kurdish YPG militia and Arab groups, launched a campaign in November to encircle and ultimately capture Raqqa from Islamic State, with air strikes and special forces support from a U.S.-led coalition.
"The frontlines have not reached the city yet, they are still in the countryside," Silo said. "The campaign will go on until the city is completely cut off."
The first two phases of the SDF campaign targeted areas to the north and west of Raqqa, with the third phase targeting areas to the east of the city.
Raqqa city is bordered to the south by the Euphrates River. The U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State has mounted numerous air strikes targeting the bridges over the river, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has reported.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's Foreign Ministry called the Dalai Lama a "deceptive actor" on Tuesday, after the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader said in an interview that Chinese hardliners have parts of their brains missing.
Speaking to U.S. comedian John Oliver in India's northern town of Dharamsala, where the exiled Tibetan government is based, the Dalai Lama cast doubt on his reincarnation by saying he might be the last in line.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang noted that the interview appeared in an entertainment program.
"The Dalai Lama's comments in the interview perhaps appeared humorous and funny, but these words are all lies that do not accord with the facts," Geng said.
"We often say that the 14th Dalai Lama is a political exile who wears religious clothing to engage in anti-China separatist activities," he added.
"Now it seems he is an actor, who is very good at performing, and very deceptively."
China brands the Nobel Peace laureate a dangerous separatist. The Dalai Lama, who fled into exile in India after a failed uprising against Chinese rule in 1959, denies espousing violence and says he only wants genuine autonomy for Tibet.
The animosity between the two sides, and their rivalry for control over Tibetan Buddhism, is at the heart of the debate about reincarnation.
Tibetan Buddhism holds that the soul of a senior lama is reincarnated in the body of a child on his death.
China says the tradition must continue and its officially atheist Communist leaders have the right to approve the Dalai Lama's successor, as a legacy inherited from China's emperors.
The Dalai Lama has suggested previously the title could end with him, when he dies. China accuses him of betraying, and being disrespectful of, the Tibetan religion, by saying there might be no future reincarnations.
Tibet's delegation to the annual meeting of China's parliament, which opened on Sunday, is likely to hold a news conference some time this week. Such meetings tend to be dominated by the issue of the Dalai Lama.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A 22-year-old British woman was raped and assaulted a number of times while she was held hostage by a man during a two-month ordeal in the remote outback of northern Australia, police said on Tuesday.
The British backpacker was rescued on Sunday after officers stopped a car in Mitchell, a small rural town more than 550 km (340 miles) west of the Queensland state capital, Brisbane, police said.
The unidentified woman, who was driving the car, had visible injuries to her face and was noticeably distressed, prompting the officers to search the car, police said, and a 22-year-old man was found hiding in a small alcove in the back.
Police allege the woman was attacked repeatedly between Jan. 2 and March 5 after the pair met several months ago and agreed to go on a road trip together, during which she was held against her will.
The unidentified Australian man faced court on Monday, when he was charged with multiple counts of rape, assault and holding the backpacker against her will.
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - Sudan's foreign ministry said it was disappointed with U.S. President Donald Trump's revised executive order banning citizens from six Muslim-majority nations from traveling to the United States.
"The foreign ministry expresses its regret and disappointment over the executive order issued by the U.S. president on March. 6 that renewed the ban on immigration of citizens from six countries including Sudan to the United States for 90 days," it said in a statement.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea will consider filing a complaint against China to the World Trade Organization over what it described as trade retaliation for the deployment of a U.S. anti-missile system outside of Seoul, the ruling party said on Tuesday.
South Korea in July decided to install the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in response to missile threat from North Korea, despite China objecting that THAAD's radar can penetrate its territory.
South Korean companies in China have since reported cyber attacks, store closures and fines, while state-controlled media has called for a boycott of South Korean goods and services.
"We will actively consider whether China's action is in violation of the South Korea-China free trade deal, while stepping up efforts to minimize damage on South Korean industries," Lee Hyun-jae, chairman of the Liberty Korea Party's policy committee, said after meeting senior government officials.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang, when asked about the matter on Tuesday, reiterated China's stance that law-abiding foreign companies are welcome and will be protected.
In the latest instance of suspected discrimination, China has rejected applications from airlines including Jeju Air Co Ltd (089590.KS) to add charter flights between the two countries this month, Yonhap News Agency reported on Tuesday.
This adds to similar rejections for January and February. No reasons have been given for any of the rejections.
A Jeju Air spokesman confirmed the March rejection when contacted by Reuters. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng said in a briefing he was not aware of the charter flight issue.
The rejections would be the second blow in a matter of days for South Korean travel companies, after the Chinese government last week ordered tour operators in China to stop selling trips to South Korea.
Lee said on Tuesday the Seoul government had since agreed to provide 50 billion won ($43.3 million) worth of "special loans" for tourism firms experiencing difficulties due to the order.
Chinese authorities have also closed retail stores belonging to Lotte Group following inspections. The number of closures had  reached 39, and one store has received a fine, a Lotte Mart spokesman said on Tuesday.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday the deployment Of United States' missile defense system in South Korea is bringing the situation in the Korean peninsula into a stalemate, Russian news agency Interfax said.
VIENNA (Reuters) - Austrian Interior Minister Wolfgang Sobotka said on Tuesday he wanted to change legislation to permit a ban on foreign officials making speeches in Austria if human rights or public order were threatened, a move aimed at Turkish politicians.
Sobotka told ORF radio he would not allow foreign politicians to bring their domestic battles to Austrian soil and that he was sending draft legislation to legal experts before presenting it to the cabinet.
Austria's move comes at a time of Turkish fury over the cancellation of several political rallies in Germany aimed at drumming up support among for President  Tayyip's plans to overhaul the constitution. Erdogan accused Germany of "fascist actions".
Sobotka said the new legislation would apply to Turkish campaigning on its constitutional referendum.
"With the agreement of the federal government, the Interior Minister can... forbid a foreign politician from taking part in an event... if this serves to protect the human and basic rights enshrined in the European human rights convention," Sobotka said.
The minister added this could mean travel bans, a ban on campaigning appearances or the cancellation of events.
When asked whether this could mean a travel restriction for Erdogan, Sobotka said cancelling an event should be sufficient and that Erdogan was welcome in Austria on state visits, but not to whip up tensions within Austria's Turkish community.
"If necessary (it could mean) a travel ban, the security forces have to decide this. There are several possibilities how you can reach the aim (of not having) foreign politicians making campaign appearances."
Constitutional lawyer Theo Oehlinger told ORF radio that banning campaigning by foreign politicians would be "very difficult" unless it was likely to stir up violence or threaten democratic order.
Around 116,000 Turkish nationals live in Austria, a country of around 8.7 million.
This compares with around 1.5 million Turkish citizens in Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday there were deep differences with Ankara over issues such as freedom of the press.
Merkel said Berlin would continue to allow Turkish politicians to campaign in Germany for its constitutional referendum provided their visits were announced in a transparent and timely fashion and respected German laws.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's center-left Social Democrat party (SPD) led Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives in an opinion poll by the INSA institute published on Tuesday in the mass-selling newspaper Bild.
The SPD, which has been reinvigorated by its candidate for  chancellor, former European Parliament president Martin Schulz, was on 31.5 percent, half a percentage point lower than in the last INSA poll last month.
Schulz has made fighting inequality the focal point of his election platform.
Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their Bavaria-based Christian Social Union (CSU) sister party were on 30.5 percent. The populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party was in third place on 11 percent.
(This story has been refiled to add dropped word in third paragraph)
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia will not allow North Korean citizens to leave the country with immediate effect, Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said on Tuesday, in a tit-for-tat step as a row escalated over the Malaysian investigation of Kim Jong Nam's murder.
Earlier on Tuesday, North Korea said it has temporarily banned Malaysians from leaving the country to ensure the safety of its diplomats and citizens in Malaysia.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said on Tuesday that his country aimed to work more closely with Indonesia over maritime security, but there was no plan for the neighbors to hold joint patrols in the South China Sea.
In an interview with the Australian newspaper last month, Indonesian President Joko Widodo said he would like to see joint patrols and intended to raise the idea with Turnbull, but only if it did not further inflame tensions with China.
"We are not going to undertake any actions which would increase tensions in the South China Sea," said Turnbull, when asked by a reporter whether Indonesia had raised the prospect of conducting joint patrols.
"Our commitment is to increase our cooperation with each other in terms of maritime security. So we talk about more collaboration, more coordination, but it has not been taken any further than that," added Turnbull, who is in Jakarta to attend a summit meeting of the 21-member Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA).
Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs, Luhut Pandjaitan, also said after meeting Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop on Monday that he did not envisage joint patrols though there were other areas to cooperate on.
"I don't know whether it necessary for us to do join patrols over there, but for sure, for economic activity, we can do," Pandjaitan said.
China claims almost the entire South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion worth of trade passes each year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims to parts of the sea.
Indonesia has traditionally taken a neutral position on the South China Sea, acting as a buffer between China and fellow members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) that have the most at stake, the Philippines and Vietnam.
But Jakarta was angered after China said the two countries had "overlapping claims" to waters close to Indonesia's Natuna Islands and staged large-scale exercise on the edge of South China Sea in October.
Australia - which says it takes no sides on South China Sea disputes but has supported U.S.-led freedom of navigation activities in the region - has been rebuilding ties with Indonesia after a recent spat over military.
SEOUL (Reuters) - The deployment of the U.S. military's THAAD anti-missile defense system in South Korea will be complete in one to two months and it will be operational as early as April, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported on Tuesday, citing the country's military.
The U.S. military said earlier on Tuesday the first elements of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system had arrived in South Korea for deployment. This came after North Korea test-launched four ballistic missiles on Monday, angering Seoul and Japan.
SEOUL (Reuters) - The United States has started to deploy the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) anti-missile system to South Korea, U.S. Pacific Command said in a statement on Tuesday.
The system will be deployed to counter ongoing nuclear and ballistic missile tests from North Korea, the statement said.
"Continued provocative actions by North Korea, to include yesterday's launch of multiple missiles, only confirm the prudence of our alliance decision last year to deploy THAAD to South Korea," U.S. Pacific Commander Admiral Harry Harris said in the statement.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Pentagon said on Monday that a March 2 strike against al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) in Yemen killed a former detainee from the U.S. detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
"We can confirm the death of a former Guantanamo Bay detainee, Yasir al Silmi," said Navy Captain Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, adding al Silmi had been held at the detention center from 2002 to 2009.
In a statement, the Pentagon added that he was also known as Mohammed Tahar and was repatriated from Guantanamo Bay in 2009 to Yemen.
Davis added that the United States had carried out more than 40 strikes against AQAP militants over the past five nights and would continue to target it.
Since a January commando raid, the United States has shown a desire to both strike al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and to recover from what U.S. officials acknowledge has been an intelligence shortfall about the group since Yemen's civil war forced the closure of the U.S. embassy in 2015.
RIYADH/PESHAWAR, Pakistan (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia denied on Tuesday claims by Pakistani activists that two transgender women from Pakistan were beaten to death in police custody after being arrested in Saudi Arabia along with more than 30 other members of the community.
Reports of the deaths had been carried in Pakistani media and decried in an activists' media conference on Monday. However, a statement from the Saudi interior ministry early on Tuesday said the reports were "totally wrong and nobody was tortured".
The ministry acknowledged that one Pakistani had died in custody after the arrests.
"One 61-year-old person suffered a heart attack and died in the hospital after being treated," the interior ministry statement said.
"The Pakistani embassy looked into this case and another one. Procedures have started to send the body back to his country," it said.
Saudi media reported last week that police had arrested around 35 people after they raided a party where men were dressed as women and were wearing make-up. The Saudi outlets did not use the word transgender, nor say anyone had been killed.
In Pakistan, transgender activist Farzana Riaz told a news conference on Monday that sources in the transgender community in Saudi Arabia had told her the two Pakistanis were beaten to death with sticks.
"We are deeply saddened by the deaths of these two innocent trans persons in Saudi Arabia," Riaz, a leader of the group Trans Action Pakistan, said in Peshawar.
Riaz showed journalists several photos of those still in custody that she said had been sent to her by contacts in Saudi Arabia, along with messages sent via cellphone.
Qamar Naseem, a rights activist from the Blue Veins group, told the same news conference he had shared available information about the incident with members of Pakistan's parliament.
The Pakistani Interior Ministry was not available for comment on Monday.
Saudi Arabia has no law against transgender people, but the kingdom has carried out arrests for cross-dressing and ordered the imprisonment and flogging of men accused of behaving like women, according to U.S.-based Human Rights Watch.
In Pakistan, transgender people are often shunned by their families and forced into begging or prostitution to support themselves.
Recently, however, a nascent transgender activist movement has gained attention and legal rights.
In January, a Pakistani court ruled that transgender people would be counted in the national census for the first time. In 2012, the Supreme Court declared equal rights for transgender citizens. They were guaranteed the right to vote a year earlier.
SEOUL (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump discussed plans to respond to North Korea's recent missile launches with South Korea's acting president Hwang Kyo-ahn, an official at Hwang's office said.
Trump also had a phone call with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday, reaffirming its alliance with Tokyo and condemning North Korea's tests as a threat to regional security.
North Korea fired four ballistic missiles into the sea off Japan's northwest on Monday, angering South Korea and Japan.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Japanese Defense Minister Tomomi Inada conferred on North Korea's missile launches in a telephone call on Monday, the Pentagon said, adding both leaders agreed the launches were "unacceptable and irresponsible."
"Secretary Mattis reaffirmed that the United States remains steadfast in its defense commitments to Japan including its extended deterrence commitment," Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain Jeff Davis said in a statement.
North Korea fired four ballistic missiles into the sea off Japan's northwest coast on Monday, angering South Korea and Japan, days after it promised retaliation over U.S.-South Korea military drills it sees as preparation for war.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Multiple fast-attack vessels from Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps came close to a U.S. Navy ship in the Strait of Hormuz on Saturday, forcing it to change direction, a U.S. official told Reuters on Monday.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the boats came within 600 yards (meters) of the USNS Invincible, a tracking ship, and stopped. The Invincible and three ships from the British Royal Navy accompanying it had to change course.
The official said attempts were made to communicate over radio, but there was no response and the interaction was "unsafe and unprofessional."
The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps could not immediately be reached for a comment.
Years of mutual animosity eased when Washington lifted sanctions on Tehran last year after a deal to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions. But serious differences remain over Iran's ballistic missile program and conflicts in Syria and Iraq.
While still a presidential candidate in September, Donald Trump vowed that any Iranian vessels that harassed the U.S. Navy in the Gulf would be "shot out of the water."
Similar incidents happen occasionally, but the last serious one was in January when a U.S. Navy destroyer fired three warning shots at four Iranian fast-attack vessels near the Strait of Hormuz after they closed in at high speed and disregarded repeated requests to slow down.
"Well I don't know how much of a pattern it is, we actually had seen quite an improvement in Iran's behavior until recently," Pentagon spokesman Captain Jeff Davis told reporters.
Davis said that dangerous interactions were a matter of concern because they could lead to a "miscalculation or an accidental provocation."
TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump told Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe that the United States was with Japan "100 percent" over phone talks they held to discuss North Korea's latest missile launches, Abe told reporters on Tuesday.
The two leaders agreed that North Korea's latest actions were a clear breach of United Nations' security resolution and a challenge against regional and international security, Abe added.
"President Trump told me that the United States was with Japan 100 percent, and that he wanted his comments to be communicated to the Japanese people," Abe said at his residence. "He said he wanted us to trust him as well as the United States 100 percent."
North Korea fired four ballistic missiles into the sea off Japan's northwest coast on Monday, angering South Korea and Japan, days after it promised retaliation over U.S.-South Korea military drills it sees as preparation for war.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - North Korea on Monday rejected accusations by United Nations experts that Pyongyang is evading international sanctions with a sophisticated network of overseas companies, describing a report to the U.N. Security Council as a "fraudulent document."
North Korea is under heavy U.N. sanctions and an arms embargo designed to impede the development of its banned nuclear and missile programs. A panel of experts monitors violations of those sanctions for the 15-member Security Council.
The latest annual report by the experts, seen by Reuters last month, said North Korea "is flouting sanctions through trade in prohibited goods, with evasion techniques that are increasing in scale, scope and sophistication."
North Korea's mission to the United Nations said in a statement on Monday that the sanctions were "fully denying the right to live and development of our people and destroying the modern civilization as well as making our society turn back to the medieval dark land."
Pyongyang renewed its call for the United Nations to convene an international forum of lawyers in New York or Geneva to clarify the legal basis for sanctions.
It again threatened "stronger self defensive counter-measures" and said the United States and the U.N. Security Council would be to blame for any escalation of tensions on the Korean Peninsula or in the region.
The U.N. experts report said the enforcement of sanctions against North Korea "remains insufficient and highly inconsistent" and calls for additional measures to address shortcomings.
North Korea fired four ballistic missiles into the sea off Japan's northwest on Monday, angering South Korea and Japan, days after it promised retaliation over U.S.-South Korea military drills it sees as preparation for war.
In a letter on Monday to British U.N. Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, president of the Security Council for March, North Korea's U.N. Ambassador Ja Song Nam warned that "the situation on the Korean Peninsula is again inching to the brink of a nuclear war" due to the U.S.-South Korea military drills.
Ja again requested that the U.N. Security Council meet to discuss the military drills. Previous such requests have gone unanswered by the Security Council. The letter did not mention North Korea's missile launches on Monday.
The United States and Japan have requested a United Nations Security Council meeting on North Korea's missile launches, which will likely be scheduled for Wednesday, diplomats said.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canada's foreign affairs minister said on Monday that her country should be prepared for Russia to try to destabilize its political system, saying it would be similar to its efforts in the United States.
Chrystia Freeland, who is a critic of Russia and is barred from entering that country, was asked whether Russia had engaged in a smear campaign against her after negative articles appeared in pro-Russian media about her Ukrainian grandfather.
"It is public knowledge that there have been efforts, as U.S. intelligence forces have said, by Russia to destabilize the U.S. political system," Freeland told reporters in Parliament.
"I think that Canadians and, indeed, other Western countries should be prepared for similar efforts to be directed at us."
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded last year that Russia hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the 2016 presidential election campaign as part of an effort to tilt the vote in Republican Donald Trump's favor. The Kremlin has denied the allegations.
On Monday, Canada said it would renew a military training mission in Ukraine for another two years.
In 2015, the former Conservative government sent about 200 troops to help train Ukrainian soldiers battling Russian-backed separatists and Canada has trained more than 3,200 soldiers since then, Defense Minister Harjit Sajjan said.
"This assistance is crucial to ensure a sovereign, secure and stable Ukraine," Sajjan said.
Three years of simmering military conflict between Ukraine and pro-Russian separatists have killed more than 10,000 people.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany rejected as "absurd" on Monday Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's comparison of its ban on several rallies to the Nazi era, but it also stressed the importance of ties between the two NATO allies in an attempt to defuse an escalating war of words.
Erdogan is furious over the cancellation of several political rallies aimed at drumming up support among Germany's large ethnic Turkish population for his plans to overhaul Turkey's constitution and win greater powers for the presidency.
On Sunday the Turkish leader accused Germany of "fascist actions" reminiscent of the Nazi era. Berlin says the rallies were canceled on security grounds.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has been treading a cautious line in the dispute as she needs Turkey's help to tackle Europe's migrant crisis and on other issues, but Erdogan's invocation of the Nazi period clearly touched a raw nerve.
"It is particularly grave, and makes me sad because Nazi comparisons only lead to one thing: The trivialization of the unfathomable suffering of those affected by Nazi crimes against humanity," Merkel said in a short but pointed statement.
Merkel acknowledged deep differences with Ankara over issues such as freedom of the press and the recent arrest of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel.
However, she said Berlin remained committed to basic freedoms and would continue to allow Turkish politicians to campaign in Germany for its constitutional referendum provided their visits were announced in a transparent and timely fashion and respected German laws.
A municipal spokeswoman in Hamburg said a center where Turkey's foreign minister was due to address a rally on Tuesday had been shut, but Turkish diplomatic sources said there were no cancellations and the minister would still travel to Germany.
Earlier, her spokesman Steffen Seibert dismissed the Nazi comparison as "absurd", but also said both sides should be "calm and level-headed" in managing their disagreements.
EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels also urged restraint toward Turkey, though Austria and the Netherlands - also home to large ethnic Turkish populations - said they opposed campaigning by foreign politicians on their soil.
Asked whether the European Union should curtail funding aimed at preparing Turkey to join the bloc, Seibert said: "One will certainly have to continually ask the question, as the EU does with all of its spending, whether the payments are achieving the initially intended goal."
On Sunday Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern urged the EU to halt membership talks with Turkey and scrap or restrict 4.5 billion euros in pre-accession aid promised to Ankara by 2020.
Erdogan's comments have prompted shock and outrage among German politicians, and the leader of Germany's Turkish community said on Monday they could harm bilateral ties and further exacerbate tensions among Turks living in Germany.
"Erdogan went a step too far. Germany should not sink to his level," Gokay Sofuoglu, chairman of the Turkish Community in Germany, which groups 270 member organizations, told Reuters.
Seibert told reporters Germany remained committed to good ties with Turkey because of their common interests, including the estimated 3 million people of Turkish background who live in Germany, NATO membership and the fight against Islamic State.
But he said Germany was continuing to press Turkey for fair treatment of the journalist Yucel and his speedy release. The Die Welt correspondent faces 10-1/2 years in prison if convicted of charges of propaganda in support of a terrorist organization and inciting public violence. Yucel denies the charges.
On Monday Taner Yildiz, chief adviser to Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, accused authorities in the town of Kelsterbach, west of Frankfurt, of cancelling a planned rally at which he had been due to speak.
"We reminded the (local) authorities that this was a democratic right," Yildiz told Reuters, adding that work to secure an alternative venue was underway.
German officials could not immediately be reached to confirm Yildiz's comments.
An estimated 1.5 million Turkish citizens living in Germany are eligible to vote in Erdogan's April 16 constitutional referendum.
BUCHAREST (Reuters) - A lawmaker from Romania's ruling Social Democrats proposed extending a draft bill granting prison pardons to include corruption offences, weeks after protests forced the government to abandon plans to decriminalize some graft charges.
It is unclear whether the Social Democrat party, which together with junior partner ALDE holds a large parliamentary majority, would support the amendment presented by Senator Serban Nicolae, who said it was a personal not party proposal.
The government says the bill is needed to ease pressure on the European Union state's overcrowded prisons - something echoed by Nicolae.
"I don't think ... the corrupt must live three to a bed in dampness and with precarious hygiene," he told reporters.
Romania is seen as one of the European Union's most corrupt states and Brussels keeps its justice system under special monitoring. While the European Commission has repeatedly praised the judiciary for progress stamping out graft, it has noted parliament has a track record of trying to weaken legislation.
In early February, the cabinet of Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu approved an emergency decree that would have shielded dozens of public officials from prosecution, drawing international criticism and triggering the largest nationwide protests in decades.
The ruling coalition rescinded the decree and reshuffled the cabinet.
In its initial form, the draft pardons prison sentences of up to five years except for violence, treason, genocide and other serious crimes, as well as repeat offenders. It would halve sentences for pregnant women and single family earners.
Nicolae's amendment would include pardoning sentences for bribery, influence peddling, abuse of power and conflict of interest.
The senate’s legal commission meets on Tuesday to debate the bill, which needs parliament's approval to come into effect.
Nicolae said roughly 2,700 people would benefit from the bill, just under 10 percent of all of Romania's convicts.
Earlier this month, another Social Democrat lawmaker filed a proposal to introduce jail sentences for protesters that disturb constitutional order.
Analysts have said the proposal was vaguely phrased and could apply to protests like the ones that took place across the country throughout February. The ruling party later said it did not back the lawmaker’s proposal.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Republican chairman said on Monday he was "very encouraged" by the approach President Donald Trump's administration took to its  new immigration executive order, and pleased that Iraq was removed from the list of countries subject to visa restrictions.
"We all share a desire to protect the American people, and reviewing our nation's screening and vetting procedures is an appropriate step," Senator Bob Corker said in a statement. Corker had said the first order was "poorly implemented" and called for immediate revisions.
MOSUL, Iraq (Reuters) - Both screaming in terror, a father and the young daughter he cradled in his arm fled through the rubble-strewn streets of Wadi Hajar, transformed in a flash into a battleground between Islamic State fighters and Iraqi special forces.
They and their neighbors - some wearing rubber sandals, some barefoot -  were running from an IS counter-attack in this part of Mosul, dodging gunfire as the militants closed in.
When they reached the special forces lines, males were ordered to lift their shirts to prove they weren't suicide bombers. Some had to take off their clothes or show their belts, though not those carrying children.
    It's become a common tactic for the militants to use suicide bombers, and the soldiers were firing their guns in the air to try to slow the residents down, shouting at them in Arabic.
For pictures of Wadi Hajar on Iraq's front line: reut.rs/2mxacn0
A day earlier, Iraqi troops used bulldozers to move cars into a makeshift barricade aimed at protecting residents from suicide attacks in the area.
Civilians have been displaced in greater numbers in recent days, as the fighting in and around IS's last strongholds in Mosul rages in residential neighborhoods where water, food and power have been rationed for months.
The father was so beside himself, so panicked. It was obvious because he had a short shirt on and was carrying a child that he wasn’t Islamic State. I believe they will both be taken to a refugee camp.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States is deploying an advanced anti-missile defense system to South Korea as part of steps to bolster its ability to defend against North Korean ballistic missiles, the White House said on Monday.
North Korea's launching of four ballistic missiles into the sea off Japan's northwest earlier on Monday is consistent with its history of "provocative behavior" and the United States stands with its allies against the threat, White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters.
"The Trump administration is taking steps to enhance our ability to defend against North Korea's ballistic missiles such as through the deployment of a THAAD battery to South Korea," he said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A center in Hamburg where Turkey's foreign minister was due to address a rally on Tuesday has been shut, a municipal spokeswoman said, but Turkish diplomatic sources said there were no cancellations and the minister would still travel to Germany.
The confusion came amid an escalating diplomatic dispute between Berlin and Ankara over political rallies Turkey is organizing in Germany aimed at ethnic Turkish voters ahead of an April 16 constitutional referendum on boosting Erdogan's powers.
The cancellation of several such rallies in the past week prompted Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday to complain of "fascist actions" reminiscent of the Nazi era, drawing an angry rebuke from German politicians.
A municipal spokeswoman in Hamburg said the event center where Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu was due to urge Turkish voters to back Erdogan's constitutional overhaul had been closed because it lacks a fire detection system.
One Turkish diplomatic source said the meeting would now be held at a different venue in Hamburg.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - A phone call from U.S. President Donald Trump interrupted a police inquiry into Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was on Monday being questioned for a fourth time over suspicions of corruption.
Not long after sitting down with police investigators at his residence in Jerusalem, one aide said, Netanyahu briefly excused himself to speak with Trump.
"The two leaders spoke at length about the dangers posed by the nuclear deal with Iran... and about the need to work together to counter those dangers," Netanyahu's office said in a statement issued just before details of the police probe led prime time news.
Netanyahu, 67, is a suspect in two cases, one involving the receipt of gifts from businessmen and the other related to conversations he held with an Israeli newspaper publisher about limiting competition in the news sector in exchange for more positive coverage.
No charges have been brought against Netanyahu, who has been in power since 2009 and has denied wrongdoing.
A police spokeswoman said a statement would be released after the session. "We are in the final stages," Police chief Roni Elsheich told reporters earlier about the investigation.
Once it is complete, police will decide whether to drop the case or recommend the attorney general bring charges.
As speculation bubbles, politicians from across the spectrum have begun maneuvering, believing early elections will probably have to be called if Netanyahu is indicted.
Such a move would most likely lead to his resignation - in 1993 the Supreme Court set a precedent for ministers to step down if they are charged with corruption.
It is possible someone from his Likud party could replace Netanyahu without a new vote, but many analysts think it unlikely, predicting an election would have to be called for September or November, depending on developments.
The opposition Labour party will hold primaries in July, former defense minister Moshe Yaalon has launched his own party and Avi Dichter, the former head of the Shin Bet intelligence agency and a senior member of Likud, said on Saturday he would consider running for the party leadership.
"I am here to lead and will undoubtedly run for Likud leadership and the premiership," Dichter was quoted as saying, comments his spokesman said were not a challenge to Netanyahu and referred to future primaries.
To analysts, the rumblings are clear and foreshadow change after 20 years of Netanyahu dominating the landscape.
"Active politicians and those on the benches waiting to enter, all of them have concluded that early elections are coming because of the investigation," Menachem Klein, a politics professor at Bar-Ilan University, told Reuters.
"They are starting to prepare themselves."
Opinion polls show Yair Lapid, the head of the centrist Yesh Atid party, as the strongest candidate for prime minister if Netanyahu goes, but there are a host of others nipping at his heels. Other polls show Netanyahu remains the most popular politician.
In recent weeks, Netanyahu has visited Britain, the United States and Australia. Trips are planned to Russia, China and India. Some critics suggest the travel is a way of delaying questioning. Others say it is about appearing statesman-like.
"His junkets to far-flung places and visits with the leaders of world powers are intended to persuade Israelis that he's the be-all and end-all," columnist Yossi Verter wrote in Haaretz. "The deeper the investigations, the more he'll be in the air."
Netanyahu's opponents name a number of party rivals bidding to replace him, including Public Security Minister Gilad Erdan, Culture Minister Miri Regev and Transport Minister Yisrael Katz. Naftali Bennett of the far-right Jewish Home is seen as someone who could switch to Likud to try to lead.
PARIS (Reuters) - An emergency meeting of the French conservative party's leadership unanimously backed Francois Fillon as candidate for the presidential election, Senate leader Gerard Larcher said, despite a scandal over alleged misuse of public funds.
The leader of the conservative The Republicans' party, Bernard Accoyer, confirmed the deal, saying the party had reunited and was re-launching Fillon's campaign.
Former French prime minister Alain Juppe had earlier on Monday ruled out replacing scandal-hit Fillon in the coming presidential election but offered no alternative candidates.
BELFAST (Reuters) - Talks to save Northern Ireland's devolved government ran straight into an obstacle on Monday as Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Arlene Foster resisted renewed demands by Irish nationalist party Sinn Fein not to return as first minister.
A snap election on Friday saw Sinn Fein surge to within one seat of the DUP and deny pro-British unionist politicians a majority in the British province's local assembly for the first time since Ireland was partitioned in 1921.
The election result could have dramatic implications for Northern Ireland's politics and constitutional status.
The two parties have shared power for a decade in a compulsory coalition that is a key part of the 1998 peace deal that ended three decades of sectarian violence. Their government collapsed in January after Sinn Fein withdrew support over Foster's handling of a controversial energy scheme.
They now have three weeks to form a new power-sharing government to avoid either devolved power returning to London for the first time since 2007 or the prospect of a third election in less than a year.
Sinn Fein, the former political wing of the Irish Republican Army, has for weeks insisted that it will not support the nomination of Foster as first minister while months of investigations get underway into the abuse of the heating subsidy she established as a minister.
Foster remained defiant, however.
"That is not the only red line they have put up before negotiations. I think it is a foolish thing to do," Foster told reporters.
"Our vote was up in every single constituency. I think that is a pretty good basis on which to continue as DUP leader."
She did not categorically rule out temporarily removing herself from consideration for first minister. Sinn Fein has indicated that it could back another DUP nominee for the position while Foster stays on as party leader.
However Foster, who survived an IRA bomb attack on her school bus and whose father narrowly avoided being killed in an IRA shooting, has made it clear before that she will not be dictated to by Sinn Fein, a position shared by her party.
Sinn Fein also wants Northern Ireland to set rights for Irish language speakers into law, another demand Foster has said she will never accede to.
The Irish and British governments, who are co-guarantors of the two-decade old peace deal, have urged the parties to engage quickly, particularly as Britain is preparing to launch formal divorce proceedings from the European Union.
Northern Ireland is considered the region of the United Kingdom most economically exposed to Brexit, due to its close trade links to the Republic of Ireland. The border between the North and the Republic is the UK's only land border with the EU.
"The North doesn't have a voice really on Brexit at the moment because there is no executive so it really does behove the parties to come together. This isn't a time for red lines," Irish minister Leo Varadkar told national broadcaster RTE.
ROME (Reuters) - The number of babies born in Italy hit a record low in 2016, the population shrank and the average age crept higher, national statistics office ISTAT said on Monday.
Births dropped by 12,000 to 474,000 last year, the lowest level since the unification of Italy in 1861, while deaths totaled 608,000, ISTAT said.
The average Italian is now 44.9 years old, up 0.2 years from 2015, while some 22.3 percent of the population is over 65, the highest ratio in the 28-nation European Union.
The total population fell by some 86,000 to 60.58 million, with new migrants helping to offset the falling birth rate.
ISTAT said fertility rates fluctuated wildly between the industrialized north and the poorer south.
On the island of Sardinia, women had 1.07 children on average, while the only province where births rose was in Bolzano, near the border with Austria, where the fertility rate was 1.78.
If applied to the whole country, Bolzano's figures would put Italy among the most fertile countries in the European Union, ISTAT said, whereas with Sardinia's rate, "dangerously close to one child per woman, Italy would be in last place in Europe, and likely the world."
The overall national average was 1.34 children per woman.
Consumer group Codacons blamed families' finances for the fall in births, saying in a statement that people struggled with rises in the cost of food, prams and nurseries.
"The uncertainty and general impoverishment among the middle class in Italy in recent years has made it ever more difficult for families to bring a child into the world," the group said.
Meanwhile, the number of Italians moving abroad rose 12.6 percent year-on-year to 115,000, almost triple the rate of six years ago.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey will allow the family of a Syrian air force pilot whose warplane crashed on Turkish territory to visit him at the hospital where he is being treated, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told A Haber broadcaster on Monday.
Turkey has been one of the leading critics of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, and supports rebels fighting him in the country's six-year-old war. It currently has armed forces involved in operations along the Syrian side of the frontier.
"This is a humanitarian issue. Permission will be granted (for the visit)," Yildirim said, adding that a commission would be set up to investigate the cause of the crash.
The 56-year-old pilot bailed out of his Mig-23 warplane as it crashed in Turkey's Hatay region and was found by a Turkish rescue team. In his initial testimony to Turkish authorities, he said his aircraft was shot down on its way to strike rural areas near Idlib in northern Syria.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - A push by Poland's eurosceptic government to remove fellow-countryman Donald Tusk from one of the top jobs in the European Union failed to win any public support on Monday as EU foreign ministers met to discuss it in Brussels.
But Poland, which is also at loggerheads with Brussels over  climate change, migration and its treatment of judges and the media, was signaling it would not budge - possibly setting the stage for a showdown at a summit of EU leaders on Thursday.
Tusk's first term expires this May and he enjoys the comfortable backing of most EU states to be reappointed for another 2-1/2 years as president of the European Council, responsible for chairing summits of EU leaders.
But Poland, where the head of the ruling party is Tusk's arch-foe, wants to oust Tusk from the influential post and replace him with another Pole, Jacek Saryusz-Wolski.
Many in Brussels dread opening another feud at a time when the bloc faces daunting challenges including handling the pending departure of Britain, facing up to an assertive Russia and getting to grips with new U.S. President Donald Trump.
But Poland's ruling party boss Jaroslaw Kaczynski is implacably opposed to Tusk, holding him "morally responsible" for the death of his twin brother, President Lech Kaczynski, in a plane crash in Russia in 2010, when Tusk was Polish prime minister. Polish and Russian probes blamed pilot error.
Polish Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski, in Brussels for talks with his EU peers, said Warsaw was insistent on Saryusz-Wolski, a center-right European Parliament member.
"This is our candidate and he is in the game. This is the only Polish candidate right now for the post of the European Council head. There is no other Polish candidate," he said.
Over a Sunday dinner in Brussels, Waszczykowski had sought to persuade his peers from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, as well as Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
The leaders of four ex-communist eastern EU states met in Warsaw last week, but failed to agree on opposing Tusk together. The Czech minister, Lubomir Zaoralek, said on Monday that the easterners had much to lose.
"If there were other candidates, it could have a very unpleasant result... I am afraid that this can result in central and eastern Europe losing its representative, and I would consider that a serious mistake," he said.
The fact that the bitter political rivalry between Kaczynski and Tusk has spilled over to Brussels has raised many eyebrows in the European capital. Waszczykowski refused to say if any other country backed Saryusz-Wolski, and the other ministers did not offer any public support.
A soft-spoken centrist, Tusk is widely seen in the EU as a safe pair of hands. The decision on whether to give him a new term is expected this Thursday. While unanimity would have been the preferred option, a majority vote is enough to keep him.
Waszczykowski suggested the decision could be delayed, but Zaoralek said that would risk opening a Pandora's box. No third candidate has emerged so far.
"There is a majority for Tusk, and pleasing Kaczynski is not on everyone's mind in Brussels," said a senior diplomat from one of the other states that took part in the Sunday dinner.
Another senior diplomat said agreeing to a third candidate to appease Poland, or delaying the decision beyond Thursday would be succumbing to blackmail.
"Whatever the cost at this stage, we need to get it over with as soon as possible," the person said.
But some diplomats and officials suggested Poland could decide to pick a fight on Thursday, possibly by broadening the talks to include EU climate policies. EU member states reached an early agreement on reforming the bloc's carbon market last week despite opposition from Poland, which wants to protect its economically important coal industry.
ISTANBUL/BERLIN (Reuters) - Tayyip Erdogan's portrayal of a Germany mired in its Nazi past was calculated to infuriate Berlin while swaying Turks at home and abroad to vote "yes" to sweeping new presidential powers he seeks.
Erdogan certainly achieved the first aim, with one German politician dubbing him the "despot on the Bosphorus" and Chancellor Angela Merkel declaring that the remarks only trivialized Nazi crimes against humanity.
“With his foolish and absurd Nazi comparison, Erdogan has left the realm of rational discussion," Juergen Hardt, a lawmaker from Merkel's conservative CDU party, said of Erdogan.
"While Germany sticks to democratic standards...President Erdogan is trying to disempower the Turkish parliament through a constitutional change."
Erdogan's fury was triggered by decisions to cancel planned rallies in support of his referendum in several German towns.
Events have so far been canceled in the cities of Gaggenau, Cologne and Frechen, with local authorities or venue operators citing concerns about safety or the size of the crowd. Turkish officials said a fourth event in the town of Kelsterbach was canceled on Monday.
Merkel has said her federal government played no part in the decisions. Government spokesman Steffen Seibert said Germany would allow Turkish politicians to speak, as long as they were open about their intentions, announced them in a timely manner and did not import Turkish conflicts to Germany.
The faithful at Erdogan's Istanbul rally registered their support for Erdogan's blustering speech with familiar chants of "Stand up straight! Don't bow down! The nation is with you!"
But his portrayal of "fascist" German officials banning  rallies to discourage a "yes" vote may alienate some of the 1.5 million Turkish voters in Germany whose support he badly needs.
He could scarcely have used a more poisonous arrow against his NATO partner.
Gokay Sofuoglu, chairman of the Turkish community in Germany, told Reuters Erdogan’s rhetoric was increasing tension in an already divided Turkish community.
"Erdogan went a step too far," he said. "Germany should not sink to this level."
Sofuoglu appealed to members of Germany's Turkish community to stay calm despite what he called a constant barrage of anti-German and anti-European messages on Turkish media.
A leader with no rival who consistently wins close to 50 percent in elections, Erdogan is well placed to win powers he says are essential to secure a country threatened by Islamist and Kurdish militants and still recovering from a military attempt to topple him that killed 248 people.
Opponents say the new system, allowing him to enforce decrees, dissolve parliament and declare emergency rule, would abolish checks already eroded during his 15 years in power.
The almost 4 million Turkish voters living in the European Union are an important bloc that could be skeptical of Erdogan's desire for more authority, said Abdulkadir Selvi, a commentator with close links to the ruling AK Party.
"Is the AK Party front uneasy about a 'no' wave across Europe and particularly in Germany? They are definitely uneasy, because votes overseas have begun to create a significant weight on the election results."
Germany is not alone in worrying about Turkish rallies. The Dutch government has opposed a rally in Rotterdam, while the Austrian chancellor proposed an EU-wide ban on Turkish rallies, which would deflect some of the pressure from Berlin.
"We now see a wave of fascism is being resurrected through Germany and Austria," Turkish pro-government newspaper Yeni Safak said in an editorial. "A racist trend is spreading across the whole of Europe preparing for open war against the two 'enemies', the Turkey enemy and the Islamic enemy."
There was room for humor amid the bluster, albeit with a sarcastic edge: "Don't be scared, we are not planning to besiege Vienna again," the editorial said, referring to 16th and 17th century battles that halted Ottoman expansion in Europe.
Erdogan has chafed at German criticism of a widespread purge he is conducting including arrests and dismissals of people in almost all walks of society suspected of links to the failed July coup. He has also accused Berlin of giving succor to Turkey's enemies, from Kurdish militants to leftist radicals.
Dozens of Turkish diplomats and military figures accused by Erdogan of links to the coup have claimed political asylum in Germany. The German justice ministry says it has received 136 asylum applications.
Erdogan has also bristled at German condemnation of the arrest of a German-Turkish journalist, whom he calls a spy.
Merkel's response is constrained in part by her reliance on Erdogan's cooperation in a deal that stopped the flow of migrants into Europe from Turkey last year, after a million reached Germany the year before. Erdogan agreed to take back migrants who reach the EU from Turkey by boat. In return, the EU agreed to easier visas for Turks and progress on Turkey's long-delayed bid to join the bloc.
The lead article in German news magazine Der Spiegel urged Merkel to free herself from the “handcuffs of the migrant deal”.
Erdogan has made no hint so far that he might pull out of the deal, but Turkish officials grumble that Europe is not living up to its side of it.
“While we're expecting full support from Germany on issues such as the migrant deal, visa liberalization and Turkey’s full EU membership, the exact opposite is happening," a senior government official said.
"There is a great disappointment in that sense.”
WARSAW (Reuters) - In trying to prise former Polish prime minister Donald Tusk out of one of the European Union's top jobs, the ruling conservatives in Warsaw may have another battle in mind: the 2020 presidential election in Poland.
The eurosceptic Law and Justice (PiS) party said last week that Tusk, 59, was unfit to serve another term as European Council president, responsible for chairing EU summits. It has proposed another Pole, European Parliament member Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, to replace him.
Few diplomats expect the PiS to succeed in thwarting Tusk's reappointment, to be decided at an EU summit this week. Some political analysts say its real goal is to tarnish his image at home sufficiently to prevent him from ever threatening its rule.
Tusk's Civic Platform (PO) defeated the PiS in elections in 2007 and 2011 before being unseated by it in 2015 - struggles that have given rise to a bitter rivalry between him and PiS leader Jaroslaw Kaczynski.
"Kaczynski correctly sees Tusk as his most dangerous enemy," said Jaroslaw Flis, a sociologist at Jagiellonian University in Krakow.
Kaczynski, 67, who holds no government post but is seen as Poland's main decision-maker, views Tusk as morally responsible for the death of his twin brother, President Lech Kaczynski, in a plane crash in Russia in 2010.
Investigators have cited pilot error but Kaczynski has said negligence on the part of the government, in which Tusk was prime minister, was at least partly to blame.
On the economic front, the nationalist-minded PiS has accused Tusk's pro-business centrists of neglecting national interests for the sake of better relations with Germany and foreign corporations."There are two mechanisms here," said Aleksander Smolar, a liberal political analyst with the Stefan Batory Foundation, describing the conservatives' efforts to block Tusk's EU job.
"One is revenge. The other is the desire to prevent Tusk from returning to Poland on a white horse, unifying the opposition and eventually winning over the PiS. It's about diminishing his value," he said.
If Tusk wins another 30-month term as EU Council chairman, his mandate would finish around the end of 2019, just months before the 2020 presidential election -- convenient timing if he wanted to run. A parliamentary vote is due in late 2019.
He enjoys wide support among EU leaders, including Poland's allies in central Europe, who see him as a safe pair of hands at a time when the bloc is struggling with challenges like Brexit and the migration crisis.
Kaczynski has branded Tusk the candidate of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and blamed him for failing to work out a compromise deal with Britain that might have dissuaded the UK from voting last year to leave the EU.
Tusk further upset the government back home in Warsaw by criticizing it in December over its plans to limit media access to parliament and a controversial reform of the constitutional court. He had decided then to "ostentatiously support the opposition", Deputy Foreign Minister Konrad Szymanski told the private TVN24 television on Monday.
Kaczynski has hinted ongoing parliamentary and criminal investigations could lead to Tusk facing charges over an investment scam in which thousands of people lost money while he  was prime minister.
A new probe has also been launched into the 2010 plane crash in Russia. Tusk has accused the PiS and Kaczynski of trying to exploit the tragedy for political reasons; his party, the PO, says the government wants to turn the case into a show trial.
PiS remains popular in Poland despite mounting accusations at home and abroad of authoritarian tendencies in its push to increase control over state institutions.
It has benefited from the lack of a charismatic leader of the centrist opposition since Tusk's departure to Brussels in 2014.
"Kaczynski remembers that when Donald Tusk was in Poland he was regularly losing all elections," said Malgorzata Kidawa-Blonska, deputy speaker of parliament and a member of the PO party.
"He is ready to blame Tusk for everything."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. military on Monday left open the possibility of additional North Korean ballistic missile launch attempts beyond the four medium-range missiles that landed in the sea off northwest Japan.
"There were four that landed. There may be a higher number of launches that we're not commenting on. But four landed and splashed in the Sea of Japan," Navy Captain Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, told a news briefing.
Reuters reported on Sunday that the United States saw no indications of an intercontinental ballistic missile launch. Davis confirmed on Monday that there was no ICBM launch attempt.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey does not plan a military campaign against the Syrian town of Manbij without coordinating with the United States and Russia, which have a military presence in the area, Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Monday.
"(Without such coordination) there wouldn't be much of a result and things could get more complicated," Yildirim told broadcaster A Haber, adding that talks at the military level were underway.
Last week Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said Manbij would be the next target in the military campaign Turkey is waging alongside Syrian rebels in northern Syria against both Islamic State and the Kurdish YPG militia.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - China's third most powerful leader said on Monday that Beijing had the right to "step in" to Hong Kong's leadership contest, according to local politicians who met him, in remarks fuelling fears of meddling from Communist Party leaders.
The comments by Zhang Dejiang, the head of China's parliament and its leading official on Hong Kong issues, came after other officials played down rumors that Beijing was interfering in a race pitting China's preferred candidate against a more popular figure.
Under laws governing the former British colony since its return to Chinese rule in 1997, autonomous Hong Kong has the right to choose its chief executive via a 1,200-strong election committee stacked with Beijing loyalists.
The committee is due to vote at the end of this month to decide between two former officials and a retired judge to lead the freewheeling city of 7.3 million people.
But the independence of the election has been questioned, with several election committee members telling media they had received phone calls from people with ties to the Chinese government trying to influence their votes.
The head of Beijing's representative office in Hong Kong, Zhang Xiaoming, said over the weekend that allegations of intervention were only rumors.
Zhang Dejiang, chairman of the National People's Congress, said it was important for the election to proceed smoothly and stressed the significance of the chief executive's role as a link between Beijing and the Asian financial hub, according to the convener of the Hong Kong delegation to the congress, Maria Tam.
"It is a very important role, so the central government has the right to step in," Tam told reporters in her summary of Zhang's comments.
Zhang also warned the delegation during the annual parliamentary meetings in Beijing that Hong Kong should not allow politics to dominate life in the city.
He added that it was unfortunate that "street politics" had become a part of everyday life in Hong Kong while the neighboring Shenzhen city was catching up economically.
"It is quite possible that Shenzhen can overtake Hong Kong in two years," Tam cited Zhang saying.
Calls to the central government's Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office seeking comment went unanswered. China's Foreign Ministry, the only department which regularly answers questions from foreign reporters, declined to comment.
The British government said it hoped that following the selection, discussion would resume about progressing to a "more democratic and accountable system of government".
"This would support Hong Kong’s continued prosperity and help protect the Special Administrative Region’s rights and freedoms," a British Foreign Office spokeswoman said.
Hong Kong returned to China under a "one country, two systems" formula that allows freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland. China bristles at dissent, however, especially over issues such as demands for universal suffrage.
This month's election is the first since mass pro-democracy street protests rocked Hong Kong in late 2014.
Beijing's support means former Hong Kong civil service head Carrie Lam is tipped as the favorite in the contest despite losing popularity polls to an ex-colleague, former Financial Secretary John Tsang.
Tsang had previously rejected speculation that Beijing did not trust him despite his almost decade-long tenure as financial secretary.
But during the meeting Zhang stressed "many times" that the next chief executive needs to be "extraordinary, outstanding" and have Beijing's trust, said Hong Kong delegate and election committee member Michael Tien.
"The implication is that being a secretary for 10 years doesn't necessarily mean the person is qualified as a chief executive," Tien said.
Tien added some committee members expected the Beijing leadership to make its final preference known closer to the election.
The central government is legally required to officially appoint the winner of the committee's election.
Another delegate, the former head of Hong Kong's legislature, Rita Fan, denied that Beijing was intervening in the race, adding it had the right to voice its opinions.
"As a stakeholder, the central government has a right to express its views, and it hopes people can take its opinions into consideration," Fan said.
But critics say Zhang's comments just weeks before the polls would further undermine the "one country, two systems" principle, which has come under strain, especially since the shadowy detention of five Hong Kong booksellers in late 2015.
"The central government might as well just tell us directly who to vote for and we all become rubber stamps," said pro-democracy legislator and election committee member Lam Cheuk-ting.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak rebuked North Korea on Monday as his government expelled its envoy for casting doubt over the impartiality of the investigation into the bizarre murder of the North Korean leader's estranged half brother.
If North Korean agents did kill Kim Jong Nam, as U.S. officials and South Korean intelligence suspect, the decision to assassinate him on Malaysian soil could cost the isolated, nuclear-armed state one of the few friends that it has.
Malaysia's outrage over last month's killing of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur International Airport was heightened by the assassins' use of VX nerve agent, a chemical so toxic that it is on a U.N. list of weapons of mass destruction.
North Korea has refused to accept that the victim of the Feb. 13 murder was leader Kim Jong Un's half brother, and Ambassador Kang Chol accused Najib's government of colluding with external forces and said the investigation could not be trusted.
Najib had branded Ambassador Kang "diplomatically rude" and, angered by the lack of an apology, the Malaysian government on Saturday gave him 48 hours to leave.
"They should have apologized. So based on principles, we have declared him persona non grata," Najib told reporters at parliament on Monday.
"There is no one who can undermine us or disrupt us as they please."
The expelled ambassador fired a parting shot at the Malaysian authorities as he prepared to leave from the same airport where Kim Kong Nam was killed.
"I express grave concern over the extreme measures taken by the Malaysian government, doing great harm to the bilateral relations which have a history of more than 40 years," he told reporters.
Kang said his statements were a stand taken against a "pre-targeted investigation by the Malaysian police."
Later, the North's KCNA news agency said the Malaysian ambassador to Pyongyang had also been designated persona non grata and had to leave the country within 48 hours of 10 a.m. on Sunday.
The move appeared to be a tit-for-tat formality as Malaysia had already recalled its envoy on Feb. 20, a week after the killing.
Kang landed in Beijing just past midnight and was seen with a woman and a child leaving the VIP arrival area in a car led by a Chinese police escort vehicle.
Kim Jong Nam, who had been living in the Chinese territory of Macau under Beijing's protection, had spoken out publicly against his family's dynastic control of North Korea.
So far, Malaysian prosecutors have charged an Indonesian woman and a Vietnamese woman with the murder of Kim Jong Nam.
But police have identified eight North Koreans, including a senior embassy official and state airline employee, wanted for questioning in the probe.
Police say that four of the North Koreans they want to interview left Malaysia in the hours after the murder.
Only one North Korean suspect was apprehended, but after several days in custody, Ri Jong Chol was deported on Friday after being released due to insufficient evidence.
Until this week Malaysia was one of the few countries that North Koreans could enter without a visa. But that privilege has been revoked.
Asked whether Malaysia, which had recalled its ambassador to Pyongyang for consultations, would be reviewing diplomatic ties with North Korea, Najib was noncommittal.
"We will see. We'll take it one step at a time."
Malaysia also asked for an Asian Cup soccer qualifier match  against North Korea to be moved to a neutral venue as tension escalated.
"The relationship has already been affected, it won't be the same," Deputy Foreign Minister Reezal Merican told reporters.
The case has also cast a spotlight on North Koreans living in Malaysia, with authorities vowing to investigate North Korea-linked companies that are suspected of operating a sanctions-busting arms business in Malaysia.
Reuters reported this week that a front company run by North Korean intelligence agents ran an arms operation out of Malaysia.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's Social Democrats (SPD) unveiled plans on Wednesday to keep pensions stable and cap contributions in an effort to win over voters in a September election and unseat conservative Chancellor Angela Merkel who is seeking a fourth term.
The centre-left SPD, junior party in Merkel's current right-left coalition, hopes its pension plans will help put the issue of social justice at the heart of the election, though it has not weighed very heavily so far among voters.
The SPD has lost the momentum it gained after first nominating former European Parliament chief Martin Schulz in January as its candidate for chancellor to run against Merkel. A poll on Wednesday showed the conservatives' lead over the SPD had widened to 15 points.
Schulz said his party wanted to preserve the level of pensions at 48 percent of an average salary until 2030. Pensions are projected to fall to 44.7 percent of wages by 2030 as the government tries to rein in costs as the population ages.
The party also aims to cap contributions, equally divided between workers and employers, at 21.8 percent of salary by 2030 from 18.7 percent.
"We want to ensure dignity in old age," Schulz told reporters, promising to keep the retirement age at 67.
The extra cost for these commitments would be paid for by making some three million self-employed people pay contributions, increasing the contributions faster and lifting funding from tax to 15.3 billion euros in 2030 from 14.5 billion euros now.
However, the radical Left party attacked the plans for not going far enough.
"Whoever wants to stop poverty in old age must not limit themselves to stopping a further fall in pensions but must make sure that they go up," said Left leader Bernd Riexinger.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Iran's Revolutionary Guards say Saudi Arabia was behind twin attacks in Tehran on Wednesday that killed at least 12 people and injured 43, a statement published by the Guards said.
"This terrorist attack happened only a week after the meeting between the U.S. president (Donald Trump) and the (Saudi) backward leaders who support terrorists. The fact that Islamic State has claimed responsibility proves that they were involved in the brutal attack," said the statement, published by Iranian media.
The attacks were the first claimed by the hardline Sunni Muslim militant group in the tightly controlled Shi'ite Muslim Iran.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union executive threw its support on Wednesday behind Franco-German plans to integrate Europe's militaries and defence industries, offering money and coordination to build up their depleted forces.
Spurred by Britain's decision to leave the European Union and pressure from the United States, Brussels has seized on deeper military ties proposed last year by France and Germany to show its citizens the bloc can still provide security in the face of Islamist militant attacks and a resurgent Russia.
"Defence and security is one of the fields through which we can re-launch the European Union," EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini told a news conferences.
Failings in Europe's bombing campaign in Libya in 2011, when the United States had to step in with refuelling planes, and Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea have reignited EU defence plans that date back to the 1950s but have remained elusive.
Britain had long blocked EU defence integration and France's Defence Minister Sylvie Goulard said on Wednesday now was the time to act: "This is a turning point to better share the costs, but also the defence capacities," she said in a statement.
Although the European Union has more than a dozen military missions abroad, the world's biggest trading bloc has never been able to match its economic might with broad defensive power, preferring to rely on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation.
But U.S. President Donald Trump's sharp criticism of European allies for low defence spending and his refusal to fully back the alliance added to concerns that without Washington and London, the European Union was vulnerable to a host of threats, from cyber to militant attacks.
A year since proposals on an "European Defence Union" from Paris and Berlin, the European Commission said it was willing to provide money from the EU's common budget for the first time for defence.
The Commission said it would also create a fund to reverse billions of euros in defence cuts to let governments club together to develop and buy new helicopters and planes at lower costs, also opening the door to new drones, cyber warfare systems and other hi-tech gear.
The plan still needs to be approved by EU governments and the European Parliament, where a German leftist lawmaker, Sabine Losing, was critical: "The EU Defence Fund is taking a fatally-flawed direction."
"The defence industry might be pleased as punch to hear that - but it’s a dark day for those of us who are working towards a peaceful and social European Union
While the amounts of money depend on EU governments' willingness to collaborate, the Commission said it would put forward at least 1.5 billion euros ($1.69 billion) a year from the bloc's budget for the research and purchase of assets.
That could generate some 5.5 billion euros a year after 2020 if enough governments come forward with funds, EU officials said, stressing that national governments would remain the owners of all equipment.
German Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen welcomed the plan. "It is ambitious and shows how far we have gone over the last 12 months in establishing a defence and security union," she said in a statement, calling for more such steps.
Defence research spending in the EU has fallen by a third, or more than 20 billion euros, since 2006. While the European Union spends about half as much as the United States on researching and producing weapons, it only has about 15 percent of the assets that Washington can deploy on the battlefield.
EU governments champion national companies, often leading to duplication and wasted funds, according to EU data. In 80 percent of cases, governments award defence contracts to their own firms rather than use European consortiums.
The European Union's defence fund idea is part of an emerging network of proposals that EU leaders are set to consider at a summit in Brussels on June 22-23.
The European Union is setting up a military headquarters for training missions abroad and wants to make it easier to use its EU battlegroups that have never been deployed.
Paris also wants to set up a system in which coalitions of willing EU countries come together to carry out and pay for military missions together, rather than leaving future peacekeeping operations to bigger countries such as France.
The European Defence Agency, the body that helps EU governments develop their military capabilities, has also proposed a separate fund made up of EU states' public money that would aim to work on smaller, collaborative projects.
BERLIN (Reuters) - About 25,000 military forces from the United States and 23 other countries will take part in a large-scale military exercise called "Saber Guardian" planned in Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania next month.
In addition, several U.S. B-1B heavy bombers have arrived in Britain in support of two separate multinational exercises planned in the Baltic region and other parts of Europe this month to improve coordination among partner countries.
The U.S. military plans were announced by Stuttgart-based U.S. European Command, which said this year's Saber Guardian exercise - held annually in the Black Sea region since 2013 - was "larger in both scale and scope" than previous exercises.
The news could exacerbate tensions that are already running high between Moscow and Washington.
Russia scrambled a fighter jet on Tuesday to intercept a nuclear-capable U.S. B-52 strategic bomber it said was flying over the Baltic Sea near its border, in an incident that had echoes of the Cold War.
Washington said the long-range bomber was operating in international airspace.
European Command said the Saber Guardian exercise would include an array of live fire exercises, river crossings and a mass casualty exercise and was aimed at drilling "the ability to mass forces at any given time anywhere in Europe".
"It is deterrence in action," it said in a release.
The U.S. army said the larger exercise would be preceded by several smaller events - all aimed at shoring up the security and stability of the Black Sea region, where increased Russian submarine activity has sparked concerns.
The Saber Guardian exercise rotates through Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine, with a goal to increase the ability of European and U.S. military forces to operate together in the event of an armed conflict.
It will be the largest of 18 separate Black Sea exercises planned this year, European Command said.
The B-1B bombers were deployed from Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota to a UK air base in Fairford to support two separate exercises planned this month, Saber Strike and BALTOPS, according to European Command.
It said an undisclosed number of B-1B bombers would join three B-52H bombers that were already in Europe for training.
BALTOPS is a recurring multinational exercise that will involve 4,000 shipboard personnel, 50 ships and submarines and more than 50 aircraft.
Saber Strike, now in its seventh year, is aimed at improving cooperation among allies and partners while promoting regional stability and security, European Command said.
MOSUL, Iraq (Reuters) - Islamic State built prison cells inside an ordinary villa in Mosul as part of the group's tactic of boosting the safety of its jails and security centres by concealing them among regular houses.
Despite their outward appearance, the jails had the regular attributes of state-run detention centres where inmates have their documents and belongings taken away when they arrive, to be given back to them if and when they are released.
A camera hanging in one cell where men were kept was linked to the guards' office. "This is to keep the prisoners subdued," said the Iraqi military intelligence officer showing the villa to journalists.
He said former members of the Iraqi armed forces were kept in this cell, along with Yazidis, the religious community who suffered the most under Islamic State because the hardline group considered them devil worshippers.
"Here they kept 'violators'" of their laws, he said. "But they are the real violators" in the eyes of Iraqi law, he added.
For Reuters photo essay, click: reut.rs/2s380Hc
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African President Jacob Zuma may be removed as head of state after a December conference when a new leader of the ruling African National Congress will be chosen, Secretary General Gwede Mantashe said on Wednesday.
Zuma has survived calls to resign from sections of the ANC in recent months following a string of corruption scandals, waning public support and economic instability caused by a heavily-criticised cabinet reshuffle in March.
Though Zuma can remain South African president until an election in 2019, senior ANC sources opposed to him have told Reuters they will push for his removal as head of state shortly after he steps down as party leader in December.
ANC's top leadership, including Mantashe, have been critical of some of Zuma's decisions but have not publicly said they back proposals to remove him.
Asked if it would be easier for Zuma's ANC opponents to remove him after the party conference, Mantashe told Reuters: "Yes, that's exactly the point I'm making. After December ... he will not be the president of the ANC, who by resolution should be president of the republic. It's less complex."
Mantashe gave as an example former president Thabo Mbeki who was recalled as head of state by the ANC in 2008, less than a year after he was ousted as party leader.
Zuma is unpopular with most investors and the possibility of him leaving office before 2019 would be welcomed by markets.
Backroom rifts within the ANC have been thrust into the open this week after more than 100,000 emails leaked to local media allegedly showed improper dealings in lucrative government contracts by business friends of Zuma.
Zuma and the Gupta family, wealthy Indian-born businessmen whose companies have contracts with state-owned firms, have not commented, though they have denied similar allegations in the past. Reuters could not independently verify the new allegations.
Mantashe said the allegations were damaging the reputation of the ANC and called for a judicial inquiry to investigate the influence of business interests in government. Zuma has not yet agreed to such an investigation.
"It damages the ANC because we are the governing party. Many of the people cited there as beneficiaries of the Guptas are leaders of the ANC, so we're paying the price for that," Mantashe said.
The latest allegations of influence-peddling are deepening divides in the ANC as factions battle for control ahead of the December party conference.
Zuma has backed his ex-wife and former African Union chair Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to succeed him, while other ANC factions are supporting Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa.
Opposition parties have made upbeat comments about unseating the ANC in 2019, an unthinkable scenario a few years ago for a party that has led comfortably since it swept to power under Nelson Mandela at the end of white-minority rule in 1994.
The ANC lost control of major cities last year in its worst local election results since coming to power, partly due to a drop in public support for Zuma.
"When we go to the 2019 elections we will have a new face of the ANC. It doesn't matter whether he (Zuma) leaves after December or doesn't leave," Mantashe said.
"There is an inherent risk that you can win and equally a risk that you can lose. We take every election seriously."
LONDON (Reuters) - Following twin attacks in Tehran on Wednesday that killed at least twelve people, the deputy head of Iran's Revolutionary Guards promised retaliation on Islamic State -  the militant group that claimed responsibility - and its allies.
"Let there be no doubt that we will take revenge for today's attacks in Tehran, on terrorists, their affiliates and their supporters," Brigadier General Hossein Salami was quoted as saying by state media.
The Revolutionary Guards also said in a statement published on state media that it "has proved in the past that it will take revenge for all innocent blood shed" in Iran.
GAZA (Reuters) - Moves by Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other Arab states to isolate Qatar may have serious repercussions for Hamas, the Palestinian Islamist movement that rules Gaza and has long relied on the Gulf emirate for financial and political support.
A powerful Arab group including the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed diplomatic ties and imposed a blockade on Qatar on Monday over the natural gas producer's alleged support for Islamist groups and Iran.
Hamas officials are tight-lipped about the pressure being put on Qatar, not wishing to draw attention to their own dilemma posed by the worst crisis among Gulf Arab for two decades. But Gaza-based analysts concede the situation is precarious.
One potential fallout is a sharp cut in Qatari funding for Hamas, especially if the emirate wants to show the Saudis and others that it takes seriously the charge that it finances militant groups tied to the Muslim Brotherhood, such as Hamas.
If financial aid is cut - Qatar has paid out or pledged $1.5 billion since 2012 to help build roads, houses, schools and clinics in impoverished Gaza - it will hurt Gaza's two million people - and could have ramifications for Israel as well.
In the past, when Hamas has felt backed into a corner, it has led to conflict. Since 2007, when it seized control of Gaza from the rival Palestinian movement Fatah, Hamas's militant armed wing has fought three wars with Israel, all producing a heavy death toll and severe destruction in Gaza.
"It will be difficult for Qatar to resume its financial support for Gaza now because of the assault against it," said Adnan Abu Amer, an independent political analyst in Gaza. "The political support to the entire Palestinian cause is going to be affected, not only by Qatar, but in the Gulf in general, and that may leave the Palestinians alone in the face of Israel."
Equally, he said, Hamas is unlikely openly to kick up a fuss so as not to compound the pressure Qatar is under.
"Hamas feels it owes Qatar gratitude because of its political and financial support all these years," he said.
In a sign that Hamas has been under pressure from Qatar to moderate its positions, the group unveiled a new policy document at an event in Doha last month, distancing itself from the Muslim Brotherhood.
Hamas was formed in the 1980s as an offshoot of the pan-Arab Brotherhood but has more recently stressed its basis as a Palestinian liberation movement, in part to defuse Egyptian enmity and draw support from wealthy Arab states.
Hamas officials would not directly address the threats they face, but were critical of Saudi Arabia for leading the squeeze on Qatar, and in particular about comments by Riyadh's foreign minister calling on Qatar to sever relations with Hamas.
"We in Hamas urge the brothers in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia to stop these statements that hurt the kingdom and hurt its positions towards the cause of our people and their legitimate rights," Hamas said in a statement.
Those statements, it added, could spur Israel to "conduct more violations and crimes against our people, our land and our sacred sites and against the blessed Al-Aqsa mosque" in Jerusalem, Islam's third holiest site.
As well as financial support, Qatar has long hosted exiled Hamas officials, including its former political chief, Khaled Meshaal. Meshaal was recently succeeded by Ismail Haniyeh, who remains in Gaza but is expected to move to Qatar's capital Doha.
Reports in Arab media said Qatar planned to expel several Hamas officials, including Saleh al-Aruri, who is believed to be the leader of Hamas in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and who was previously kicked out of Turkey. But Hamas in Gaza denied any such expulsions had taken place. Meshaal remains in Qatar.
In a sign that Hamas is rapidly reassessing what the regional shifts mean, its new leader in Gaza, Yahya Sinwar, is currently in Egypt for meetings. Egypt wants Hamas to cut ties with the Muslim Brotherhood, which Cairo considers a terrorist group, and adopt a more pragmatic regional stance.
It is not clear what message Sinwar has taken to Cairo, but analysts believe the aim is to try to keep Egypt on side and show Hamas can be a partner. The question is whether it can work, and whether Hamas can afford to cold-shoulder Qatar.
"Things are foggy for Hamas now," said Ashraf Abouelhoul, a writer and analyst for Egypt's Al-Ahram newspaper. "The fate of Hamas's leadership in Qatar is also in question. Will they leave Qatar? Where can they go? The Saudi position is very clear: Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood must leave Qatar."
Abouelhoul said he believed Hamas needed to distance itself from Qatar, and withdraw its officials from Doha, if it wanted to retain the support of other Gulf states.
"If Hamas hesitates or acts too late or chooses the Iranian-Qatari camp it will face difficulties on all fronts," he said. "Hamas maybe the biggest loser of what is happening with Qatar."
ANKARA/DOHA (Reuters) - Turkey threw its support behind Qatar on Wednesday, with officials saying it could fast-track troop deployment and provide crucial food and water supplies to the Gulf Arab country facing isolation from some of the biggest Middle Eastern powers.
In the deepest split between Arab states for decades, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain severed relations with Qatar on Monday and closed their airspace to commercial flights, saying it was funding militant groups.
Qatar vehemently denies the accusations.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has said isolating Qatar would not resolve any problems. Erdogan, who has long tried to play the role of a regional power broker, said Ankara would do everything in its power to help end the regional crisis.
Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif is visiting the region to discuss the stand-off.
Lawmakers from Erdogan's ruling AK Party and the nationalist opposition MHP on Wednesday proposed bringing forward approval of a draft bill that will allow Turkish troops to be deployed to Turkey's military base in Qatar, party officials told Reuters.
Turkey has maintained good relations with Qatar as well as several of its Gulf Arab neighbours. Turkey and Qatar have both provided support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and backed rebels fighting to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
The Turkish parliament was also set to bring forward approval of a draft accord between the two countries on military training cooperation, the officials said.
Both bills, which were drawn up before the spat erupted, are expected to be approved by the Ankara parliament on Wednesday.
Turkey's lira weakened after the move.
Turkey's main exporting industry body said it was ready to meet food and water supply demands from Qatar, after a Qatari official said Doha was in talks with Iran and Turkey to ensure trade disruptions did not create shortages.
Grain traders said Qatar appears to have a comfortable immediate supply of wheat.
"Qatar recently purchased about 20,000 tonnes of Russian milling wheat which according to my calculations has just arrived in past days or will arrive in coming days," one European grain trader said.
The president of Qatar's Chamber of Commerce was quoted on Wednesday by local media as saying Qatar had enough food stored in strategic reserves to last for a year.
"There will be no shortage of food and other products as more than 95 percent of imports from Qatar arrive by air and sea," Qatari Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim al-Thani said.
Turkey set up a military base in Qatar, its first such installation in the Middle East, as part of an agreement signed in 2014. In 2016, Ahmet Davutoglu, then Turkish prime minister, visited the base where 150 troops are stationed, the Turkish daily Hurriyet reported.
In an interview with Reuters in late 2015, Ahmet Demirok, Turkey's ambassador to Qatar at the time, said 3,000 ground troops would eventually be deployed at the base, which was primarily to serve as a venue for joint training exercises.
The text of the draft bill, which includes the agreement between Qatar and Turkey on the base, shows the cooperation will be primarily about the modernisation of Qatar's military institutions, as well as widening cooperation in training and joint war exercises.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Indian farmers on Wednesday stepped up their agitation in the central state of Madhya Pradesh after six were shot dead in clashes the previous day, forcing the authorities to impose a curfew in some areas.
The outburst of discontent in India's heartland farming states of Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring Maharashtra poses a challenge for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has promised to double farmers' incomes over the next five years.
Farmers' leaders say the six were shot dead by police during a protest in the central city of Mandsaur, a version questioned by the state government which has ordered an investigation.
"We will continue our protest until the government accepts our demands," said Sunil Gaur of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, or National Farm Workers' Union, which called Wednesday's state-wide shutdown.
"The government has complicated the situation by killing six innocent farmers."
Farmers dumped vegetables and milk on the roads when the strike kicked off last week, demanding billions of dollars in debt forgiveness and better prices for their produce.
Tension persisted in some parts of Madhya Pradesh, with a curfew imposed throughout the district of Mandsaur where the farmers died, a police officer said.
"The curfew won't be lifted until the situation becomes normal," said the officer, D. Kavita.
Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan appealed to farmers to keep the peace and accused the opposition Congress party of being behind violence that broke out at the protests.
"The government is with the farmers," he told television news agency ANI, a Reuters affiliate. "Some people want to ruin the atmosphere. Stay away from such people."
Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi was expected to visit Mandsaur on Wednesday. "This government is at war with the farmers of our country," he said on social network Twitter.
In the past, ruling parties have lost elections in the eastern state of West Bengal, western Maharashtra and the northern state of Uttar Pradesh after farmers died at the hands of security forces.
The Maharashtra farmers' strike entered its seventh day, despite an assurance from Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis that the state would waive distressed farmers' debts before Oct. 31.
The prices of fresh produce have more than doubled in cities such as Mumbai, India's main financial centre and the capital of Maharashtra.
Two-thirds of India's population of 1.3 billion depend on farming for their livelihood, but the sector makes up just 14 percent of gross domestic product, reflecting a growing divide between the countryside and increasingly well-off cities.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Ferries resumed crossings between Germany and Denmark after a brief halt on Wednesday following a threat made to local police by phone, Danish police said.
The police said in a statement that it had searched and cleared the first ferries at the Danish ports Rodby and Gedser and allowed them to resume operations.
Ferry routes between Denmark and Sweden, which had also been suspended due to the threats, were resumed shortly after, the police said.
Ferry operator Scandlines said Wednesday it has evacuated all its ferries in the Danish town Rodby and suspended ferry traffic between Denmark and Germany due to security reasons following a telephone threat.
"All ferry operations have been suspended, and the ferries will be emptied as soon as the police allows them to go to port," a Scandlines spokesperson said earlier on Wednesday.
The local police said the suspension came after it had received a telephone call, but declined to elaborate.
CAIRO (Reuters) - The Muslim Brotherhood, in its first reaction to the Gulf crisis on Wednesday, rejected what is said were false accusations of terrorism by Saudi Arabia.
In statement on its website, the world's oldest Islamist movement called on the kingdom to cease its support for Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and not to listen to the rulers of the United Arab Emirates, whom it called corrupt and oppressive.
The UAE, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and others cut diplomatic ties with Qatar on Monday, partly over the tiny Gulf monarchy's alleged support for Islamist groups such as the Brotherhood.
Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Adel Al-Jubeir said on Tuesday Qatar needed to take several steps, including ending its support of Palestinian Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood, to restore ties with other key Arab states.
"The Kingdom's insistence on backing the obscene putschist (Egyptian) regime, providing it with financial and political support, attacking the moderate Islamist movement represented in the Muslim Brotherhood, and accusing it of terrorism, puts the Kingdom's credibility at stake," the Brotherhood said.
Egypt's military, then led by Sisi, ousted former President Mohamed Mursi, a Brotherhood leader, from power in 2013 after mass protests against his rule. The move was backed by Saudi Arabia and the UAE.
"Do not listen to the princes of oppression and injustice in the UAE, those corrupt men are a plague on the (Islamic) nation and the Kingdom both. They are the cohorts of Zionists and finances of oppression and obscenity," the group said.
The Brotherhood, a global organisation which started in Egypt in 1928, has experienced splits ever since it lost power in its country of origin. The statement came from a Cairo-based wing.
BERLIN (Reuters) - German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel expressed alarm about the sudden escalation of tensions in the Gulf after Saudi Arabia and other states abruptly broke off ties with Qatar, warning of the dangers of "Trumpification" of relations in the region.
"I am extremely concerned about the dramatic escalation of the situation and the consequences for the entire region," Gabriel told Germany's Handelsblatt newspaper in an interview on Wednesday before a meeting with Saudi Arabia's foreign minister.
Gabriel told reporters after the meeting with Adel al-Jubeir he was surprised by the intensity of the tensions erupting in the Gulf region, and urged all sides to work to end the crisis.
"Such a Trumpification of relations with one another is particularly dangerous in a region that is already rife with crises," he told the newspaper, in an apparent reference to what critics say is the increasingly divisive rhetoric seen since the election of U.S. President Donald Trump last year.
"Qatar is apparently to be more or less completely isolated and existentially targeted," he said, adding: "A further escalation serves no one. The Middle East is a political and military powder keg."
Jubeir told reporters the Gulf states could resolve a row with Qatar among themselves without outside help.
"We believe this issue can be dealt with among the states of the Gulf Cooperation Council," he told a news conference with Gabriel. German officials said he expressed optimism that the crisis could be resolved quickly.
Jubeir said he had not been officially informed of any U.S. investigation into the alleged hacking of Qatar's news agency, a development which is part of the dispute.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism and Iran, opening the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.
The three Gulf states announced the closure of transport ties with Qatar and gave Qatari visitors and residents two weeks to leave their countries. Qatar was also expelled from a Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen.
Gabriel warned that disagreements among Gulf states could weaken the U.S.-led coalition's fight against Islamic State, and said Jubeir agreed it was critical to avoid further escalations.
But Gabriel also said that all members of the coalition fighting Islamic State should ban any government or private financing of militant groups, citing past reports about financing coming from Saudi-based foundations as well as Qatar.
Gabriel's spokesman Martin Schaefer, speaking at the regular government news conference, said that Germany was worried that the crisis could affect the work of the U.S.-led counter-IS coalition, especially given the U.S. military's use of an air base in Qatar, but that no impact had been seen so far.
Asked about Trump's policies in the Middle East, Gabriel said Germany did not support a policy of "pure confrontation" against Iran.
Gabriel, a longtime critic of German arms sales, also criticised Trump's recent large U.S. weapons sales to other countries in the Gulf.
"The latest gigantic arms sales of the American president with the Gulf monarchies increase the risk of a new arms race spiral," he told the newspaper. "That is totally the wrong policy, and certainly not the policy of Germany."
Trump sealed a $110 billion arms deal with Saudi Arabia on his maiden foreign trip in May.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Negotiations on Britain's departure from the European Union will begin shortly after the country's parliamentary elections, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday.
"We can't prejudge the vote in Britain," Merkel said when asked about her view of the snap election that takes place on Thursday.
"The decision to leave the EU has been taken and we are working on the basis of what Prime Minister Theresa May wrote to us," she added. "I think the negotiations will begin soon after the elections."
BUCHAREST (Reuters) - Dozens of Romanian rights groups jointly asked parliament on Wednesday to reject a proposed referendum to restrict the constitutional definition of family which would effectively rule out the possibility of legalising same-sex marriage.
Their grouping, Respect, says an initiative by the Coalition for the Family - also a civil society group - will push the European Union state onto a populist, authoritarian track leading to an erosion of democratic rights and liberties.
The Coalition also supports cancelling subsidies for contraception and elective abortion, forcing parents of minors to have counselling if they want to divorce, and lowering some taxes for married couples.
"Unfortunately, two democratic instruments, the (civil society) legal initiative and the referendum, have been perverted to serve the agenda of pressure groups," Respect said in a statement.
"Romania is at a turning point and risks joining an authoritarian path unless we act to respect all citizens' fundamental rights."
The plan for a referendum came about after the Coalition collected 3 million signatures last year in favour of changing the constitutional definition of marriage as a union strictly between a man and a woman from the existing "spouses".
Under Romanian law, the constitution can be changed after a proposal by the president, the government, a quarter of all lawmakers or at least 500,000 citizens. Parliament must approve any revision, which must then pass a nationwide referendum.
The Coalition's proposal has already cleared the senate with an overwhelming majority.
Few politicians openly support same sex marriage or even civil partnerships in the socially conservative eastern European nation of 20 million, where the Orthodox Church holds considerable sway.
"Romania's parliament is nearing a decision without having organised real debate, without an in-depth analysis, not taking into account European norms and values or the real needs of the Romanian society," Respect said.
"We appeal to political decision makers and responsible institutions to protect democracy."
The Coalition has accused media of discriminatory coverage, saying its own rhetoric was tolerant and geared to preserving marriage between men and women as a universal role model.
LONDON (Reuters) - Ten people remain in a critical condition after Islamist militants targeted pedestrians and revellers in London at the weekend, the English health authority said on Wednesday.
Three men drove into pedestrians on London Bridge on Saturday before attacking people with knives in nearby bars and restaurants.
Earlier on Wednesday, police confirmed the death toll had risen to eight after they found a body in the River Thames. Of the 48 admitted to hospital, 29 were still being cared for, NHS England said.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - A management crisis at Malaysia's Felda Global Ventures Holdings (FGV) deepened on Wednesday with the national anti-graft agency saying it will soon investigate several company officials for alleged corruption and abuse of power.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak's office also got involved in what has become a public boardroom battle, asking a former cabinet minister to look into the suspension of FGV's top executives.
Turmoil at FGV - whose biggest shareholder is state-owned Felda - could hurt Najib, who government sources say is expected to call elections later this year. Its shareholders, many of them small landowners, form a key vote bank for Najib's ruling alliance in battleground states.
The board of FGV, the world's third-largest palm oil plantation operator, suspended its chief executive and chief financial officer on Tuesday as it investigates transactions at a subsidiary. Two other directors have also been suspended.
CEO Zakaria Arshad has denied wrongdoing and refused to step down as instructed by chairman Mohd Isa Abdul Samad, according to a letter seen by Reuters. Zakaria had called on the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) to conduct its own investigation.
The anti-corruption agency is looking into FGV following Tuesday's developments and an investigation will be opened as soon as possible, MACC Deputy Chief Commissioner Azam Baki told Reuters on Wednesday.
"We are looking into claims of graft and possible abuse of power involving several officials," he said, declining to name the officials or give specifics on the claims.
The Malaysian government appointed Idris Jala as an independent party "to establish the facts of the case" regarding the suspension of the four executives and "recommend the way forward", according to a statement from the PM's office.
Idris, who served as a minister in the PM's department, is known as a turnaround specialist in Malaysia. As chief executive of Malaysia Airlines in 2006, he returned the national carrier to profitability by cutting costs and thousands of jobs.
Solving the public spat would be critical for Najib and FGV's controlling shareholder Felda, or Federal Land Development Authority.
Felda "settlers", or land owners, are the majority voters in at least 54 of the 222 seats in the parliament. They own shares in FGV, which raised over $3 billion (£2.3 billion) in one of the world's biggest listings of 2012.
The shares have dropped 70 percent since that stock market launch, hurting settlers who have also complained about delayed payments from Felda, which buys the palm fruit the settlers produce in their land.
Shares of FGV fell about 1 percent initially on Wednesday before rebounding to close up 2.5 percent. They had declined 6 percent on Tuesday, falling at one point to their lowest in five months.
Earlier this year, settlers had also expressed doubts about Felda's $505 million purchase of a non-controlling stake in PT Eagle High Plantations Tbh, owned by one of Indonesia's biggest conglomerates, the Rajawali Group. Plantation analysts said the purchase price was steep by some valuation measures.
Zakaria was perceived by FGV shareholders as someone who was focused on restructuring efforts and improving the share's value, according to industry analysts.
He took over in April last year from Mohd Emir Mavani Abdullah, who was replaced after a failed initial attempt in 2015 to buy the Eagle High stake.
Since then, Zakaria has said FGV will rationalise its operations to address its "structural and financial issues".
The FGV board said a deal with Dubai-based palm oil buyer Safitex was at the heart of the company's internal investigation.
In a statement on Wednesday, the FGV board said a PricewaterhouseCoopers' audit showed that Safitex's debt to an FGV subsidiary, Delima Oil Products, had grown from $8.3 million at the end of 2015 to $11.7 million in 2016.
"Management had continuously represented that the balance would be fully recoverable," FGV said. Instead, it grew to exceed the allocated credit limit for the financial year ended Dec. 31, 2016, it said.
After receiving the PwC report, the board then instructed internal auditors to probe the matter and they "detected potential contraventions of group policies", FGV said.
Brokerage CIMB on Wednesday downgraded FGV to a "reduce" rating from "hold", saying the suspension of the CEO and CFO for an indefinite period of time will lead to uncertainties about its direction.
DUBAI/SYDNEY (Reuters) - Qataris will no longer be allowed to land at any airports in the United Arab Emirates or catch connecting flights there as part of increased efforts by Arab powers to isolate the Gulf state.
UAE airlines Etihad and Emirates announced the details of the travel restrictions on Wednesday after Australian carrier and Emirates partner Qantas Airways (QAN.AX) said it would not fly Qataris to Dubai because of the government restrictions.
Abu Dhabi-owned Etihad also said foreigners living in Qatar with residence permits would no longer be eligible for visas upon arrival in the United Arab Emirates.
Several Middle Eastern countries, including Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the UAE, cut ties with Qatar on Monday over what they say is its support for terrorism, an accusation the Gulf state vehemently denies.
The UAE had already said Qataris would not be allowed to enter the country, though the practical impact on airline passengers had been unclear. The airlines have now clarified Qataris cannot fly to Abu Dhabi or Dubai even to change planes.
The travel curbs add to the woes of Qatar's flagship airline Qatar Airways which has now lost access to Saudi Arabia and the UAE, its two key markets for transfer passengers, said John Strickland, director at JLS Consulting.
Qatar Airways has cancelled all flights to those countries, which averaged 55 a day before the diplomatic row, according to CAPA Centre for Aviation. The airline's website said it has offered refunds or rebookings to affected passengers.
"If the actions become protracted then it's probable that  customers outside the region will seek increasingly to book on competitor airlines to avoid the longer routings and disruptions which Qatar is currently subjected to as a result of overflight bans," Strickland said.
The transit ban on Qataris is stricter than the restrictions for Israeli passport holders who are allowed up to 24 hours to change planes at UAE airports, even though Israel and the United Arab Emirates don't have diplomatic relations.
UAE's General Civil Aviation Authority ordered all Qatar Airways offices to close in the UAE, the official WAM news agency reported. A Qatar Airways spokesman confirmed the move.
Saudi Arabia and Bahrain revoked the licences of Qatar Airways on Tuesday and ordered its offices to be closed within 48 hours.
OPSGROUP, an industry flight operations service, said it had advised airlines of a series of restrictions on Qatari nationals, including a ban on transit through the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were the largest markets by the number of available seats for Qatar Airways and the loss of the four Arab markets could lead to a double-digit decline in revenue for the carrier, CAPA said.
"This is the strongest accusation to date of Qatar being connected with terrorism. Many travellers and corporate accounts could blacklist Qatar Airways," Leeham Co analyst Bjorn Fehrm said in a note published on Wednesday.
Indonesia said on Wednesday it had diverted Muslim pilgrims going to Saudi Arabia to other airlines. An Islamic Religious Council of Singapore spokesman said alternative flights to Saudi Arabia were being sought, with less than 200 people affected.
Moroccan airline Royal Air Maroc cancelled flights via Doha to the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Egypt, state news agency MAP and the airline's customer service said.
PARIS (Reuters) - France said on Wednesday it would not takes sides in the diplomatic row between some Arab states and Qatar, but said the Gulf nation needed to be transparent and answer the questions its neighbours had asked it.
"Our will is not to take sides, but Qatar must be completely transparent and answer its neighbours' questions," government spokesman Christophe Castaner told reporters in a weekly briefing.
Castaner was responding to a question on whether Paris considered that Qatar supported terrorist groups.
Qatar vehemently denies any such backing.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's parliament is expected to fast track on Wednesday existing legislation to allow its troops to be deployed to a Turkish military base in Qatar, officials from the ruling AK Party and the nationalist opposition said.
The move appears to support the Gulf Arab country when it faces diplomatic and trade isolation from some of the biggest Middle Eastern powers. Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain severed relations with Qatar and closed their airspace to commercial flights on Monday, charging it with financing militant groups.
Qatar vehemently denies the accusations. It is the worst split between powerful Arab states in decades.
LONDON (Reuters) - Iran's state broadcaster IRIB reported that one attacker at the Iranian parliament exploded a suicide vest in the building, but some other news agencies said the explosion might have been caused by grenades thrown by the assailants.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Iran's Intelligence Ministry said attacks on parliament and at the mausoleum of Ayatollah Khomeini on Wednesday were carried out by terrorist groups, state TV reported.
"This morning two terrorist groups attacked the parliament and Imam Khomeini's shrine ... Members of a third group were arrested before being able to carry out any attack," the station quoted the ministry as saying.
LONDON (Reuters) - The head of the anti-terrorism department in the Iranian Intelligence Ministry said they have foiled another terrorist plot and have arrested "a terrorist team", state broadcaster IRIB reported.
Iran's intelligence ministry has also asked people to avoid public transport, according to IRIB.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility for attacks on Iran's parliament and Ayatollah Khomeini's shrine on Wednesday, the group's state news agency AMAQ said.
"Fighters from Islamic state attacked Khomeini's shrine and the Iranian parliament in Tehran," the news agency said.
In another statement the news agency said the attacks on Khomeini's shrine were carried out by two suicide bombers.
The two attacks happened almost simultaneously and killed up to seven people.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union's executive is ready to increase support for the bloc's first ever defence research programme, offering more funds to develop new military hardware in its earliest stages after years of government cuts, a top EU official said.
Following a 90-million-euro pilot investment from the EU's common budget in 2017-2019, the European Commission is proposing 500 million euros (£436.3 million) for the 2019-2020 period that could rise to 1.5 billion euros a year from 2021, Industry Commissioner Elzbieta Bienkowska told Reuters.
"European citizens see security as the number one thing that Europe should provide to them, so it's time to propose this," Bienkowska said in an interview.
With Britain, one of EU's leading military powers, leaving the bloc, ideas for common EU defence are gathering pace in the wake of Islamic attacks in Western Europe. Europeans are also worried about U.S. commitment to NATO under President Donald Trump.
Under the proposal unveiled on Wednesday, at least three firms and two member states would have to submit a joint project to be eligible for financing from the EU budget.
If agreed by governments and the European Parliament, the EU budget would put up 20 percent of the costs of developing prototypes, Bienkowska said.
"The prototype phase is the riskiest one and it is very important to have incentives from the European budget to prepare common projects," she added.
A European drone is often cited as an example of how EU funding can help get projects underway. Bienkowska said she also hoped to see cyber projects from smaller firms and innovative startups.
She said she wants negotiations and legislative work between the Commission, member states and the European Parliament to finalise by the end of 2018.
The EU's political capital Brussels hopes it can turn the tables on Brexit - an unprecedented setback in 60 years of European integration - by moving ahead with closer defence and security cooperation, which London had long blocked.
The EU, where most governments are also NATO allies, have also come under increased pressure from Trump, who last month scolded the Europeans for failing to spend enough on their own defence.
Though Bienkowska said work on promoting more security and defence cooperation in the EU has started two years ago, she admitted Europe's unease about Trump gives it additional momentum: "All developments in the United States will make our cooperation (in Europe) stronger."
"We will work more closely in the European Union, what we want to achieve is to have a stronger European defence and a stronger NATO."
Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine and its subsequent backing for militias fighting Kiev troops in the industrial east of the former Soviet republic also add to the bloc's security concerns.
The EU estimates it loses up to a 100 billion euros a year on duplication, leaving it with far fewer capabilities than the United States. Years of defence cuts have worsened the issue as national governments jealously protect their own firms.
Europe has 37 types of armoured personal carriers and 12 types of tanker aircraft compared to nine and four respectively in the United States, according to EU analysis.
"Up until now, member states were doing things completely separately, without any cooperation. I want to appeal to the member states to think about common projects, because the money will be there," Bienkowska said.
For the future, Bienkowska is mulling a common European defence bond for joint purchases from 2021, though she said no decisions had yet been taken.
Italy is a proponent of issuing joint EU debt, as well as exempting various types of spending from budget deficit limits. Germany, on the other hand, which is the bloc's largest economy and key power, is opposed to both these approaches.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Dozens of Chinese nationals who had been held for illegal mining in Zambia have departed the African country to return home, China's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday.
China had complained that Zambia provided no strong evidence of crimes committed by the 31 arrested in the copperbelt town of Chingola, including a pregnant woman and two victims of malaria.
But Zambia's immigration chief had told Zambian media the Chinese would have to be deported for violating the law.
"After repeated representations by China's Foreign Ministry and its embassy in Zambia, on the afternoon of June 6, the 31 Chinese citizens that had been seized and detained boarded a plane and left Zambia smoothly to return home," ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.
In a letter, the 31 had expressed their "satisfaction" with the Chinese embassy's efforts on their behalf, Hua told a regular news briefing.
Chinese companies have invested more than $1 billion in copper-rich Zambia, but there has been animosity, with some Zambian workers accusing firms of abuses and underpaying.
In 2012, Zambian miners killed a Chinese supervisor and seriously wounded another in a pay dispute at a coal mine. Zambian police charged two Chinese supervisors at the same coal mine with attempted murder two years earlier, after the shooting of 13 miners in a pay dispute.
Resource-hungry China is investing heavily in Africa, a supplier of oil and raw materials, such as copper and uranium, but critics have warned its companies take with them their poor track record on workers' rights and environmental protection.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Five workers at a nuclear research facility in east Japan were exposed to radioactive material on Tuesday after a bag that contained it burst, the plant's state-run operator said.
Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA) said in a statement the incident occurred during a check on radioactive storage inside a "controlled" room at the facility in Oarai, with no radioactive material leaking outside.
Shunichi Tanaka, the chairman of the regulator Nuclear Regulation Authority, in a weekly news conference on Wednesday criticised JAEA for not being more careful and said the level of exposure within the room where the accident happened was "high".
Up to 22,000 becquerels of radioactive materials were detected in the lungs of one of the workers, JAEA said. That could potentially expose him to levels of radiation many times higher than most people over the coming decades.
A JAEA spokesman who declined to be named said the material in that worker's lungs was plutonium, marking the highest such measurement for plutonium from any atomic accident in the country.
Another company spokesman said measurements of radioactive materials between 2,200 becquerels and 14,000 becquerels were detected in the other four workers. He said some of this may have come from plutonium.
"The workers had no (immediate) irregularities in their health, but we cannot deny the possibility of any health impact in the future," he said. The workers were wearing coveralls, caps, gloves and half-masks.
Japan's nuclear industry has been in tatters in the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, with parts of the public deeply sceptical about the safety of atomic energy.
Yoshihide Suga, Japan's chief cabinet secretary, said in a news conference that he had been told the exposure would not pose an immediate risk to the workers' health.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Tuesday's air strike launched by the United States in Syria against Iranian-backed fighters who support the Damascus regime  violates international law, Interfax news agency quoted Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov as saying on Wednesday.
A Syrian military source said the strike had caused deaths and material damage and showed the coalition was "in support of terrorism". The Syrian military command warned against the dangers of escalation, the source added.
The U.S. military had repeatedly warned massing forces to stay away from a so-called "de-escalation" zone near a garrison used by American special forces and U.S.-backed fighters around the southern town of At Tanf.
DUBAI (Reuters) - A senior United Arab Emirates (UAE) official said on Wednesday that more punitive measures on Qatar, including further curbs on business, remain on the table in a dispute with its powerful Arab neighbours.
"What we are hoping is that our action will send some sense into the decision-makers in Qatar when they will see their overall interest is in not undermining their neighbours," UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash told Reuters in an interview, referring to more curbs.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the UAE and Bahrain severed diplomatic relations with Qatar in a coordinated move on Monday, accusing it of support for Islamist militants and Iran. Qatar strongly denies supporting terrorism.
Gargash said he hoped further steps were not needed but could not be ruled out.
"We hope that cooler heads will prevail, that wiser heads will prevail and we will not get to that," he said.
"But if we have to, these are all entanglements that we have to deal with as the crisis develops and create solutions to them and this will be a very, very sad course that we need to take, but I am hoping that cooler heads will prevail in Qatar."
Gargash said Qatar must make an iron-clad commitment to change its policies before talks could begin to resolve the biggest diplomatic crisis in the Gulf region in years.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump took sides in a deep rift in the Arab world on Tuesday, praising Middle East countries' actions against American ally Qatar over Islamist militants even though the tiny Gulf state hosts the largest U.S. air base in the region.
Trump wrote on Twitter that his recent trip to the Middle East was "already paying off" and cast an anti-Islamist speech he made in Saudi Arabia as the inspiration for a decision by Arab powers to sever ties with Qatar in protest at what they say is the Gulf nation's support for terrorism.
"So good to see the Saudi Arabia visit with the King and 50 countries already paying off. They said they would take a hard line on funding extremism, and all reference was pointing to Qatar. Perhaps this will be the beginning of the end to the horror of terrorism!" Trump wrote on Twitter.
Qatar vehemently denies the accusations.
Trump later spoke by phone with Saudi King Salman and stressed the need for Gulf unity, a senior White House official said.
"His (Trump's) message was that we need unity in the region to fight extremist ideology and terrorist financing. It's important that the Gulf be united for peace and security in the region," the senior official told Reuters.
U.S. officials were blindsided by Saudi Arabia's decision to sever diplomatic ties with Qatar in a coordinated move with Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), current and former officials in Washington told Reuters. The United States was not informed of the decision until just before it was announced, the State Department said.
Even as Trump applauded the Arab countries' move, the Pentagon on Tuesday renewed praise of Qatar for hosting U.S. forces and its "enduring commitment to regional security."
Some 8,000 U.S. military personnel are stationed at al Udeid in Qatar, the largest U.S. air base in the Middle East and a staging ground for U.S.-led strikes on the Islamic State militant group that has seized parts of Syria and Iraq.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis spoke on Tuesday by phone with his Qatari counterpart, a Pentagon spokesman said, without disclosing the details of their discussion.
Trump's tweet appeared at odds with comments from U.S. officials who had said on Monday that the United States would quietly try to calm the waters between Saudi Arabia and Qatar because Qatar is too important to U.S. military and diplomatic interests to be isolated.
Qatar has for years parlayed its enormous gas wealth and media strength into broad influence in the region. But Gulf Arab neighbours and Egypt have long been irked by its maverick stances and support for the Muslim Brotherhood, which they regard as a political enemy.
Saudi Arabia's foreign minister said on Tuesday that Qatar needed to take several steps, including ending its support of Palestinian militant group Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood, to restore ties with other key Arab states, which also cut transport links.
"We've decided to take steps to make clear that enough is enough," Adel Al-Jubeir told journalists in Paris. He said the "fairly large cost" on Qatar's economy would convince it to change its policies.
The campaign to isolate Qatar disrupted trade in commodities from crude oil to metals and food, and deepened fears of a possible shock to the global natural gas market, where it is a major player.
Qataris crowded into supermarkets to stock up on goods, fearing shortages.
Maersk (MAERSKb.CO), the world's biggest container shipping line, said it was unable to transport goods in or out of Qatar because it could not take them through the UAE port of Jebel Ali.
Jordan joined the pressure on Qatar, downgrading its diplomatic representation and revoking the license of Doha-based TV channel Al Jazeera.
White House spokesman Sean Spicer said the United States is communicating with all the parties in the Middle East "to resolve issues and restore cooperation" over the Qatar dispute.
"The U.S. still wants to see this issue de-escalated and resolved immediately, in keeping with the principles that the president laid out in terms of defeating terror financing and extremism."
Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah flew to Saudi Arabia for talks with King Salman bin Abdulaziz, Saudi and Kuwaiti state media reported, but gave no details on the discussions.
Russian President Vladimir Putin told Qatar's emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, in a phone call that crisis situations should be solved by political and diplomatic means, "in dialogue", the Kremlin said.
The rift has affected global oil prices, hit travel plans and sown confusion among businesses.
Saudi Arabia's central bank advised banks in the kingdom not to trade with Qatari banks in Qatari riyals, banking sources said.
Oil prices fell on concern that the rift would undermine efforts by OPEC to tighten output.
Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani told Qatar-based Al Jazeera TV that Qatar would not retaliate, hoping Kuwait would help resolve the dispute.
"We are willing to sit and talk," he told CNN later, and said his country was "protecting the world from potential terrorists".
A Qatari official said the rift was pushing Doha in the direction of leaving the six-state Gulf Cooperation Council, "with deep regret".
The split among the Sunni Muslim states erupted last month after the summit of Muslim leaders in Saudi Arabia, where Trump denounced Shi'ite Muslim Iran's "destabilising interventions" in Arab lands, where Tehran is locked in a tussle with Riyadh for influence.
Bans on Doha's fleet using regional ports and anchorages threatened to halt some of its exports and disrupt those of liquefied natural gas.
Traders on global markets worried that Riyadh's allies would refuse to accept LNG shipments from the Gulf state, and that Egypt might even bar tankers carrying Qatari cargoes from using the Suez Canal as they head to Europe and beyond.
Saudi Arabia's aviation authority revoked the license of Qatar Airways and ordered its offices to be closed within 48 hours. Qatar's stock market slid to its lowest close since January 2016 and the Qatari riyal QAR= came under pressure.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said isolating Qatar, including the use of sanctions, would not resolve any problems. The Muslim Brotherhood has close ties with Turkey's ruling AK Party, which Erdogan co-founded.
Late on Tuesday, the West African country of Mauritania, a member of the Arab League, severed ties with Qatar over allegations it "supports terrorists", the state news agency reported.
"The state of Qatar has linked its policies ... in support of terrorist organisations and the propagation of extremist ideas", said the statement from the ministry of foreign affairs published in Arabic by the Mauritanian Information Agency. "This has resulted in heavy losses to human life in these Arab countries, in Europe and throughout the world".
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - France on Tuesday proposed that the United Nations Security Council back a West African force to combat terrorism, drug and human trafficking by "eradicating the actions" of Islamist militants and organised crime groups in the Sahel region.
The vast, arid zone has in recent years become a breeding ground for jihadist groups - some linked to al Qaeda and Islamic State - that European nations, particularly France, fear could threaten Europe if left unchecked.
"We cannot afford to let the Sahel region become a new safe haven for terrorists across the world," French U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre told reporters.
France circulated a draft Security Council resolution on Tuesday to the 15-member body to authorise the West African force to use "all necessary means" to restore peace and security in accordance with international law and work in coordination with a U.N. peacekeeping mission and French forces in Mali.
The West African force would also "contribute as necessary to the restoration of state authority and the return of displaced persons and refugees" and facilitate humanitarian operations and the delivery of aid.
Diplomats said the resolution could be voted on next week.
"It would be irresponsible for the council not to come together behind this regional initiative to combat terrorism across borders at the moment when the threat has never been so high," Delattre said.
The draft also requests U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres report to the council within 60 days on options for United Nations support for the West Africa force, known as the FC-G5S. He would also report every three months on the force.
The European Union has committed $56 million to the Sahel force.
Last year, the Sahel nations - Niger, Mali, Chad, Burkina Faso and Mauritania - proposed establishing special units, each of around 100 well-trained soldiers, which would be deployed in areas where jihadist groups are known to operate.
They would complement the efforts of regular armed forces, the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Mali and France's Operation Barkhane, which has around 4,000 troops deployed across the five Sahel countries.
France intervened in 2013 to drive back militants who had seized northern Mali a year earlier. However, militants continue to attack security forces and civilian in Mali and its neighbours.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former FBI chief James Comey will likely hold back from accusing President Donald Trump of trying to interfere with an  investigation into links between Trump's election campaign team and Russian officials when he testifies in Congress this week, legal sources said.
Comey's highly anticipated appearance before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday could be a turning point in a controversy that has rocked Trump's young administration.
In his first public remarks since Trump fired him last month, Comey is expected to tell the Senate Intelligence committee that Trump asked him during a meeting in the Oval Office to end the Federal Bureau of Investigation's probe into ties between former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and Russia.
Comey may also detail other conversations with Trump.
Two legal experts said Comey would seek to avoid compromising a new inquiry led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller or separate congressional investigations.
"I would expect him to hew pretty closely to facts and events," said Jack Sharman, a partner at Lightfoot, Franklin and White and former special counsel to a congressional committee that investigated President Bill Clinton in the 1990s.
Another source, who asked not to be named, said Comey does not see it as his role to charge the president or anyone else with obstruction of justice or any other crime.
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded in a report declassified in January that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a campaign not just to undermine confidence in the U.S. electoral system, but to affect the election's outcome.
Comey told the House of Representatives intelligence committee on March 20 that the FBI was probing Moscow's role in the election, including possible Trump campaign collusion.
Trump fired Comey on May 9, a step that stunned Washington and intensified scrutiny of the matter.
Michael Flynn, Trump's national security adviser, was fired in February. The White House said he had misled Vice President Mike Pence about contacts Flynn had with Russia's ambassador to the United States, Sergei Kislyak, before Trump took office.
Federal prosecutors last month issued grand jury subpoenas seeking business records from people who worked with Flynn when he was a private citizen.
The Senate intelligence panel also issued its first subpoena in its Russia investigation, demanding documents from Flynn. The first roughly 600 pages of those documents were delivered on Tuesday.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - The Australian government signalled a drive to reform parole laws on Wednesday, including a ban on parole for violent offenders who have any links to extremism, after a deadly siege claimed by the Islamic State group.
Police shot dead gunman Yacqub Khayre, who they said had a long criminal history, on Monday night after he killed a man in an apartment block in Melbourne, Australia's second-largest city, and held a woman hostage for several hours.
Attorney-General George Brandis said it was clear that Khayre, 29, who was granted parole in November after being convicted over a violent home invasion, should never have been released from prison.
"I think the public are entitled to expect that people who present that level of danger to the public, and who have a terrorism background, there should be a presumption against bail or parole except in a very clear case," Brandis told Australian Broadcasting Corp radio on Wednesday.
Brandis and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull both launched  stinging criticism of state governments, which are responsible for parole laws, in the wake of the Melbourne attack.
Police are treating the siege as an "act of terrorism" after Islamic State claimed one of its fighters was responsible.
Senior officials said Khayre had been acquitted of a plot to attack a Sydney army base in 2009. He was also accused of travelling to Somalia, where he was born, to seek a religious ruling in support of the planned 2009 attack.
Brandis said Turnbull would push state leaders to alter who is responsible for parole decisions at a meeting of state and federal governments on Friday, including having decisions made by state attorneys general rather than parole boards in cases involving extremism.
Australia passed laws last year allowing the indefinite detention of anyone convicted of terror-related offences if authorities believed that person posed a threat after their release.
Victoria state Premier Daniel Andrews said Khayre had been complying with his bail conditions, which included drug testing and a curfew, before Monday's siege. However, Andrews said he would consider changes to parole laws.
Khayre's attack echoed a deadly 2014 siege in a Sydney cafe, during which several people were held hostage for more than 17 hours by a gunman who was on bail after being charged with sexual assault and being an accessory to murder.
A coroner last month criticised "inadequate" opposition to the gunman's application for bail in that case. New South Wales, Australia's most populous state, introduced stricter bail laws in response to the Sydney siege.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States launched an air strike on Tuesday against Iranian-backed fighters who it said posed a threat to U.S. and U.S.-backed forces in southern Syria, in a new escalation of tensions between Washington and troops supporting Damascus.
The Pentagon, which has sought to stay out of Syria's civil war to instead focus its firepower on Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq, carried out a similar strike on May 18 that was denounced by Damascus.
A Syrian military source said the strike had caused deaths and material damage and showed the coalition was "in support of terrorism". The Syrian military command warned against the dangers of escalation, the source added.
In recent days, the U.S. military has repeatedly warned massing forces to stay away from a so-called "de-confliction" zone near a garrison used by American special forces and U.S.-backed fighters around the southern town of At Tanf.
The zone was agreed with Russia, Syrian President Bashar al Assad's ally. Assad is also backed by Iran and Shi'ite militias.
"Despite previous warnings, pro-regime forces entered the agreed-upon de-confliction zone with a tank, artillery, anti-aircraft weapons, armed technical vehicles and more than 60 soldiers," the U.S.-led coalition said in a statement.
It said the United States, via a military hotline with Russia, issued several warnings before the strike, which destroyed two artillery pieces, an anti-aircraft weapon and damaged the tank.
A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the strike was carried out by manned, U.S. aircraft.
"The Coalition does not seek to fight Syrian regime or pro-regime forces but remains ready to defend themselves if pro-regime forces refuse to vacate the de-confliction zone," the statement said.
Still, the incident showed that the area around the Tanf garrison in southern Syria was under growing pressure.
Tanf is part of a region known as the Badia, which consists of vast, sparsely populated desert territory that stretches all the way to the Jordanian and Iraqi borders and was declared a military priority by Syria's foreign minister earlier in May.
U.S.-backed rebel advances against Islamic State militants have allowed them to secure swaths of territory in the Badia, alarming the Syrian government and its allies.
U.S.-backed rebels took Tanf from Islamic State last year, and regional intelligence sources say they mean to use it as a launchpad to capture Bukamal, a town on Syria's border with Iraq and an important jihadist supply route.
The coalition's presence in Tanf, on the Damascus-Baghdad highway, was also meant to stop Iran-backed groups from opening an overland route between Iraq and Syria, the sources say.
In interviews with Syrian state-owned TV station al-Ikhbariya broadcast on Saturday, Syrian soldiers vowed they would reopen the Baghdad-Damascus highway.
"Within a few days, you will find us at the Iraqi border, and we will achieve a great and historic victory in the history of this crisis - cleansing the entire Badia, liberating the Tanf road ... and restoring the vital artery between Iraq and Syria," said one of the soldiers interviewed by the state TV channel in the Badia area.
Western-backed rebels resumed on Tuesday a heavy barrage of rocket attacks on Iranian-backed militia outposts along the Baghdad-Damscus Baghdad highway.
The United States sought to keep all sides focussed on battling Islamic State, or ISIS.
"The Coalition calls on all parties in southern Syria to focus their efforts on the defeat of ISIS, which is our common enemy and the greatest threat to regional and worldwide peace and security," the statement said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump had a brief message for former FBI Director James Comey on Tuesday ahead of Comey's Thursday testimony to the U.S. Congress on his conversations with Trump about Russia."I wish him luck," Trump told reporters as he met with Republican congressional leaders.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia scrambled a fighter jet on Tuesday to intercept a nuclear-capable U.S. B-52 strategic bomber it said was flying over the Baltic Sea near its border, in an incident that had echoes of the Cold War.
The appearance of the B-52, a long-range bomber that first went into service in the 1950s, irked Moscow. A Russian Foreign Ministry official said the plane's appearance in Europe would not help ease tensions between the West and Russia. A former Russian Air Force commander called the move "disrespectful."
Russian air defence systems detected the U.S. bomber at around 1000 Moscow time as it was flying over neutral waters parallel to the Russian border and sent a Sukhoi Su-27 jet to intercept it, the Russian Defence Ministry said in a statement.
"The Russian SU-27 crew, having approached at a safe distance, identified the aircraft as an American B-52 strategic bomber and escorted it" until such time as it changed course and flew away from the border area, the ministry said.
Russia said the SU-27 took off from its Baltic Fleet air defence unit, which is based in the European exclave of Kaliningrad.
The U.S. military said its aircraft was in international airspace and declined immediate comment on the Russian plane's actions.
"We can confirm that the U.S. Air Force B-52 was operating in international airspace but we don’t have any information to provide at this time regarding the behaviour of Russian aircraft," Air Force spokesman Colonel Patrick Ryder said.
NATO members such as Britain regularly report scrambling jets to intercept Russian nuclear-capable bombers flying close to their air space. It is less common for Russia to report using its fighters for the same reason.
In a separate incident, Russia said an MiG-31 jet fighter had intercepted a Norwegian patrol plane over the Barents Sea. Russia's Defence Ministry identified the plane as a P-3 Orion anti-submarine aircraft.
The Russian Defence Ministry complained that the Norwegian plane had flown close to Russia's state border with its transponders switched off. The Norwegian military confirmed the encounter, but said it was "normal."
Moscow was more put out by the B-52's appearance.
The state-backed Sputnik news agency cited a Foreign Ministry official, Mikhail Ulyanov, as saying Moscow believed a  number of U.S. B-52s had recently been transferred from their base in Louisiana to Britain to take part in military exercises.
"The fact that NATO forces are converging near Russia's borders and carrying out military exercises supported by strategic bombers from the USA capable of carrying nuclear weapons hardly helps de-escalate tensions in Europe," Sputnik quoted Ulyanov as saying.
U.S. forces are engaged in various exercises with Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and other partner nations as part of the Saber Strike war games. The United States is also taking part in the annual BALTOPS naval training exercise in the Baltic Sea which runs until June 16.
Pyotr Deinekin, a former Russian Air Force commander, was cited by the Interfax news agency as saying that he could not recall the last time a B-52 had flown over the Baltic Sea and that the incident raised troubling questions.
"Such behaviour does not deserve respect," said Deinekin, who said Russia needed to establish what weaponry the B-52 was carrying.
The B-52 was designed to attack Moscow's most vital targets via the North Pole in the event of a nuclear war when the Soviet Union still existed, Deinekin said.
"Strategic bombers should not fly so close to our land borders," he said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump pressed Republican congressional leaders on Tuesday to complete their overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system as lawmakers said they were making progress on a contentious effort that threatens to overwhelm their legislative agenda.
In a White House meeting, Trump welcomed indications by senior Republicans that the Senate might vote on a healthcare bill in July, before it breaks for the summer, after the House of Representatives passed its own version in May.
"Now the Senate I'm sure will follow suit and get a bill across the finish line this summer that will be great healthcare and I'm looking forward to seeing it," Trump said.
The gathering included Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and his No. 2, Senator John Cornyn, along with House Speaker Paul Ryan and his deputies, Representatives Kevin McCarthy and Steve Scalise.
Buffeted by criticism on many fronts, Trump wants faster action from his fellow Republicans who control Congress, pressing lawmakers to finish the job of dismantling the Obamacare healthcare law and move on quickly to another of his priorities: tax cuts.
McConnell said Senate Republicans are "getting close" to a healthcare plan after he presented an outline at a lunchtime meeting but he declined to say when he might bring it up for a vote. Other senior Republicans say they hope to vote by early July.
"The leader would like to do this soon," Senator Orrin Hatch told reporters.
The Senate requires a 60-vote supermajority to advance most legislation but Republican Mike Enzi, head of the Senate Budget Committee, said the health bill that passed the House qualifies for an expedited process that would require only 51 votes.
Still, Republicans have little margin for error because they only control 52 seats in the 100-seat chamber and remain divided over key questions such as how quickly to scale back the Medicaid health plan for the poor.
"You have to get 50 people - that means they have to get me and a lot of people who are concerned about Medicaid," said Senator Shelly Moore Capito of West Virginia, a state that depends heavily on the programme.
Medicaid was expanded under Obamacare but the House bill would phase that expansion out in 2020. The Senate bill might keep the expansion in place beyond that date, said Republican Senator John Barrasso.
Whatever the White House's efforts to push ahead with policy plans, there will be a spotlight on testimony by James Comey, the FBI director fired by Trump last month, to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday.
Senators will question Comey on whether Trump tried to get him to back off an FBI investigation into ties between the president's 2016 campaign and Russia, an attempt that critics have said could constitute obstruction of justice. Trump denies any collusion with Russia and has called the investigation a "witch hunt."
The Justice Department has appointed a special counsel to oversee its probe into the Russia issue and several congressional panels also are investigating the matter.
Elected on pledges to overhaul the healthcare system and slash taxes, Trump has yet to achieve a major legislative win, and time is running out before lawmakers leave Washington for the August break.
There has been little progress on healthcare since the House passed its bill. McConnell told Reuters late last month he did not yet know how to amass the votes needed to pass a bill on  healthcare.
He appeared to make some progress on Tuesday. Some Republican lawmakers praised an outline that McConnell presented at a lunchtime meeting, although they cautioned that much work remained to be done.
Senator Bill Cassidy said the plan offered more protections than the House bill for people who already have pre-existing illnesses when they apply for insurance coverage - a major point of contention.
"I think personally they are moving in the right direction," he said.
The House healthcare bill could result in 23 million people losing insurance, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. The bill also would reduce federal deficits by $119 billion between 2017 and 2026, according to the analysis.
Congress might then turn its focus to overhauling the tax code in September. While the administration would prefer that such changes not add to the national debt, Marc Short, Trump's top aide on Capitol Hill, told reporters on Monday that the top priority would be cutting taxes.
The Trump administration has outlined a broad plan that would cut tax rates for businesses and streamline the tax system for individuals. The proposal has been short on details, including how much the tax cuts would cost and what loopholes would be closed.
Others are eager to move past healthcare as well.
"We need to bring this to an end and move to taxes," said Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuelan opposition leaders on Tuesday accused security forces of assaulting and robbing demonstrators who participate in protests against President Nicolas Maduro.
Two videos distributed over social networks appear to show police and troops taking protesters' possessions during rallies on Monday, spurring outrage among many Venezuelans who already complain of excessive use of force during the two months of protests.
Opposition legislators on Tuesday filed a complaint with the state prosecutors' office against the police and the National Guard in relation to the alleged robberies.
Reuters could not independently verify the content of the videos. The Information Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
"(Interior Minister) Nestor Reverol gives them license to steal," said legislator Juan Matheus, adding that the complaint includes accusations of cruel and inhumane treatment.
One video shows four police officers surrounding a woman who is reeling from the effects of tear gas, with one of the officers pulling what appears to be a watch from her wrist.
In another, troops take a protester's helmet and handbag before boarding motorcycles.
The government says it is fighting opposition "terrorist cells" trying to overthrow Maduro.
They say the effort is similar to a 2002 coup that briefly ousted late socialist leader Hugo Chavez, noting that protesters routinely disrupt traffic and damage public property while mounting barricades of burning debris.
Legislators said during Tuesday's congressional session that they had registered 16 attacks against journalists on Monday alone, with some 300 during the two months of protest. Ruling Socialist Party legislators did not attend the congressional session.
Francisco Zambrano, a journalist with website Runrun.es which is critical of the government, said in a telephone interview that troops had blocked his way when he attempted to run from a cloud of tear gas fired to disperse demonstrators.
"I identified myself as a journalist, but they still opened my bag, threw my things to the ground and searched my pockets," said Zambrano. "I thought it was a regular procedure until they took out my cell phone and one of them kept it."
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas, asked on Monday about an incident involving troops throwing a television camera off a highway, said the National Guard as an institution was being unfairly held responsible for actions by individuals.
"I know and have worked with men and women of the National Guard, who are honourable and are out there risking their lives. They have also been the victim of aggression," he said during a televised interview.
The protests have left some 65 people dead and thousands injured.
The government is preparing an election at the end of July for a constituent assembly that will have the power to rewrite the constitution and potential dissolve state institutions.
Maduro's critics call it a power grab meant to keep him power indefinitely.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - China's 2016 launch of the first experimental quantum communications satellite represented a "notable advance in cryptography research," according to a Pentagon report to Congress released on Tuesday.
"The developer of the satellite claimed it has 'enormous prospects' in defence, moving China closer to more secure communications," the report said. It estimated total Chinese military spending in 2016 exceeded $180 billion.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump spoke by phone with Saudi King Salman on Tuesday and stressed the need for Gulf unity, a senior White House official said, following a decision by Arab powers to cut ties to Qatar.
"His (Trump's) message was that we need unity in the region to fight extremist ideology and terrorist financing. It's important that the Gulf be united for peace and security in the region," the senior White House official told Reuters.
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Younger lawmakers keeping beleaguered Brazilian President Michel Temer's brittle coalition from disintegrating are engaged in bitter internal debates with their own party elders, calling for them to abandon the scandal-plagued leader.
With Temer's future on the line because of an ongoing corruption investigation and an electoral fraud trial that begins later Tuesday, the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB) is considering leaving the cabinet and quitting the coalition whatever the outcome.
The breakaway movement is led by a group of young PSDB lawmakers in the lower house, known as "the black heads" for the colour of their hair, not yet grey from age. They fear corruption accusations against Temer and his Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB) could further tarnish their own party that is already beset by scandals involving its own leaders.
Temer, who is accused of receiving millions in bribes from giant meatpacker JBS SA, has won time from PSDB elders in the Senate, as they have not found a consensus figure to replace Temer should he be pushed from office and with Brazil's long-suffering economy showing signs of life.
Both younger and older PSDB members, however, agree the party must support Temer's labour and pension reforms to consolidate an economic recovery crucial for their ambitions of returning to the presidency after a 16-year dry spell.
According to PSDB Senator Ricardo Ferraco, an influential politician in charge of drafting the labour reform, some of the party elders are changing their minds and considering a breakup.
"Temer put a good government plan in place, but we cannot ignore the corruption allegations," said Ferraco, 53, from his Senate office overlooking the futuristic capital. "We are convinced the reforms need to continue whoever is the president."
The party is split on whether it should wait to leave Temer's coalition until the electoral court decides whether or not to unseat him for alleged use of illegal funds to finance his 2014 election campaign when he ran as Dilma Rousseff's running mate.
Ferraco said the party should break away this week even before the court reaches a decision, which could take weeks or months.
Another party leader and member of its executive board, Jose Anibal, called for caution and said the party should not leave the coalition without a final decision from the court.
"A big majority doesn't want to backtrack on what we have gained so far. We cannot lose those economic gains," Anibal said.
With three ministers in the cabinet and the third largest representation in Congress, a PSDB break could precipitate the fall of Temer, just one year after the impeachment of Rousseff, whose leftist Workers Party ruled the country for 13 years.
Temer's demise could put an end to his reform agenda to cap surging pension expenditures and close a widening fiscal deficit that cost Brazil its investment grade credit rating.
The PSDB, created by breakaway leftist dissidents from Temer's PMDB after the end of Brazil's 21-year dictatorship, was credited with defeating years-long hyperinflation and recession during its rule between 1995-2002.
For the first time in years, the PSDB has a clear shot at winning the presidency in 2018 after grave corruption allegations have weakened its arch rival the Workers' Party.
Lawmakers said that Geraldo Alckmin, the governor of the country's most populous state, Sao Paulo, could be the PSDB candidate for 2018. Alckmin's main ally and mayor of the city of Sao Paulo, Joao Doria, is also a possible contender.
The PSDB, however, is also reeling from corruption accusations against its leaders, including 2014 presidential candidate Aecio Neves.
For first-time PSDB congressman Betinho Gomes, the party should renew itself by distancing itself from corruption allegations now.
"We don't want to boycott Brazil or the government, but our electorate is demanding answers," Gomes said. "We should go our separate way, but remain committed with the reforms."
DUBAI (Reuters) - Kuwait's emir left Saudi Arabia after what state news agency KUNA described as a "brotherly visit" but there was no word on the outcome of the talks with King Salman bin Abdulaziz on a major diplomatic rift.
State news agency KUNA said Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah left Jeddah along with senior officials who accompanied him. It was not immediately clear if he was flying straight home or making any stops on his way back to Kuwait.
The Saudi state news agency had earlier reported that King Salman and Sheikh Sabah had discussed the "development of events in the region," but gave no details.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States is communicating with all the parties in the Middle East "to resolve issues and restore cooperation" after several countries moved to break diplomatic ties with Qatar, a White House spokesman said on Tuesday.
"The U.S. still wants to see this issue de-escalated and resolved immediately, in keeping with the principles that the president laid out in terms of defeating terror financing and extremism," spokesman Sean Spicer told a news briefing."
PARIS (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia's foreign minister said on Tuesday Qatar must take several steps, including ending its support for the Palestinian group Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood, to restore ties with other Arab states.
Minister Adel Al-Jubeir said Qatar knew exactly what to do to restore relations with Riyadh and its Arab allies.
"We want to see Qatar implement the promises it made a few years back with regard its support of extremist groups, regards its hostile media and interference in affairs of other countries," Jubeir told reporters in Paris.
"Nobody wants to hurt Qatar. It has to choose whether it must move in one direction or another direction".
Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Egypt and Bahrain said on Monday they would sever all ties with Qatar, accusing it of supporting terrorism.
"We took this step with great pain so that it understands that these policies are not sustainable and must change," Jubeir said.
Jubeir added that Qatar was undermining the Palestinian Authority and Egypt in its support of Hamas and the Muslim brotherhood.
"We don't think this is good. Qatar has to stop these policies so that it can contribute to stability in the Middle East," he said.
Jubeir declined to say exactly what he wanted Qatar to do immediately, but said the measures taken by Arab states, including a sea, land and air blockade would have a considerable cost on the country.
"We believe that common sense and logic will convince Qatar to take the right steps. The decisions that were made were very strong and will have a fairly large cost on Qatar and we do not believe that Qataris want to sustain those costs," he said.
The campaign to isolate Qatar is disrupting trade in commodities from crude oil to metals and food, and deepening fears of a possible shock to the global gas market, where the  Gulf state is a major player.
Jubeir also dismissed Qatar's recent rapprochement with Shi'ite Iran - Sunni Saudi Arabia's arch foe in the region - saying that countries that deal with Tehran "deal with it at their own peril".
When asked whether there could be military measures should Doha not change course, Jubeir said: "I hope not."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States was not informed of four Arab countries' decision to sever ties with Qatar until just before the move was announced, the State Department said on Tuesday.
Spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Washington was told of the move by the United Arab Emirates.
Qatar has made great progress in tackling the funding of terrorist groups, but still has work to do, Nauert said.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron's party is set for a large lead in the first round of a parliamentary election this month, putting it on course to secure one of the biggest majorities modern France has seen, an Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll showed on Tuesday.
Macron's Republic On The Move (LREM) was seen winning 29.5 percent of the vote in the June 11 first round, well ahead of The Republicans and their allies of the centre-right at 23 percent.
The far right National Front was seen winning 17 percent of the vote while the hard-left France Unbowed was at 12.5 percent and the Socialists at 8.5 percent.
LREM's lead narrowed from 31 percent the last time the poll was conducted a week ago after Macron's former campaign chief and now a cabinet minister came under investigation for past financial dealings.
The poll forecast that in the second round Macron's party would secure 385-415 seats in parliament out of 577 seats, potentially the biggest majority since former president Charles de Gaulle's 1968 landslide victory.
The Republicans party would win 105-125, the Socialists 25-25 seats, the hard left France Unbowed 12-22 seats and the National Front 5-15 seats, the projection said.
The poll, conducted on June 2-4 with a sample of 2,103 people, also found that 68 percent of those surveyed had definitely made up their minds about whom they would vote for, while the number was 75 percent for those backing Macron's party.
 
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron's government showed its resolve to reform France's labour laws before the end of summer on Tuesday, warning unions that it intended to act swiftly.
Macron said during the presidential campaign that he planned to fast-track the pro-business legislation through use of executive decrees in a country where the high cost of hiring and firing is seen as a deterrent to investors, and where unemployment is near double-digits.
Unions had urged the government to take more time to discuss reforms they fear would reduce cherished employment rights and make France more like Anglo-American style labour markets where workers enjoy less protection.
But speaking after meeting unions, Macron's prime minister stuck to a plan to pass the reforms during the summer holiday lull, a period in which unions could struggle to mobilise protesters, and said he would not seek to please unions on all of their demands.
"We won't agree on everything, but we must move forward," Edouard Philippe, a former conservative mayor told a news conference. "It's both indispensable and urgent."
Macron's La Republique En Marche (LREM) party is on course to win a landslide majority in this month's legislative elections, opinion polls show.
That should help the 39-year old president sweep aside resistance from left-wing lawmakers and could also limit public support for any trade union strike action aimed at derailing the measures.
Strikes and a rebellion in parliament were two factors that hamstrung the previous government's attempts to introduce similar reforms.
Macron was a minister in that government between 2014 and 2016 before he quit to launch his presidential bid.
His progress reforming France's regulation-laden economy this time around will be closely watched by Germany, which wants its European Union partners to boost growth and jobs by implementing measures like the ones it introduced more than a decade ago.
In a document released on Tuesday, the government broadly stuck to measures contained in Macron's campaign manifesto including the capping of compensation awards in unfair dismissal cases.
Two of the biggest unions appeared willing to engage in talks with the governments.
"I don't think the unions will want to make a snap judgement since we only just got this letter from the government," Laurent Berger of the moderate CFDT union said on French TV.
Although the more militant CGT union unsurprisingly said it disagreed with the reforms and called on workers to protest over the coming days and weeks, the smaller FO union said the reform plan contained both positive and negative points.
"It could be that unions will let past some major parts of the labour code reform, which would be good initially," Agnes Verdier-Molinie of the IFRAP free-market think-tank said.
"But they may be going for a deal on the pension reform, which the government could easily backtrack on because nobody understands what was in this reform," she said on Boursorama TV.
Macron plans to tackle pension reform next year and has said he wanted to merge all 37 pension systems into one, including the generous ones enjoyed by workers at the state-owned EDF utility or SNCF railway company.
PARIS (Reuters) - The French government of President Emmanuel Macron hopes to enact labour reforms in the coming months, building on ones the previous government forced through parliament in 2016 against street protests and broad, but not unanimous, opposition form labour unions.
The thrust is to allow a wider range of conditions to be set in the workplace rather than at sectoral level. Another goal is to set minimum/maximum compensation awards in unfair dismissal cases and speed up labour tribunal processing of such cases.
The "El Khomri" labour reform law adopted in 2016 ran into stiff opposition from several labour unions whose main argument was that it undermined the primacy of France's Labour Code - a body of laws and standards built up over the past 200 years.
The new reforms go further. Here are key elements:
Goal is to introduce a lengthy list of issues which can be set at company level.
The El Khomri law introduced the possibility of opting out of sector-wide agreements to set overtime pay rates and the new reform would extend the list of opt-outs to other areas.
On Tuesday, the government did not say which issues those would be and that will be the subject of negotiations with unions.
Goal is to cap unfair dismissal compensation awards and cut the time taken to reach verdicts in labour tribunals. The argument is that employers need more visibility on time and cost of disputed dismissals and will be less reticent to recruit if they have that.
Attempts to include this in past years were dropped because the constitutional court first struck down the measure on technical grounds and the previous Socialist government later decided to push other elements of the reform through instead.
Goal is to promote recourse to workplace accords that opt out of sector-wide collective bargaining terms, and to do so by promoting recourse to approval of company-level agreements by a workplace referendum.
The 2016 El Khomri reform allows - in cases where a company-level deal on pay and conditions does not muster enough union backing - for workplace accords to be adopted by referendum, as long as it is called by a union.
The aim now is to generalise that course of action by giving employers the right to call a referendum.
The goal is to reduce the number of in-house forums via which employees are consulted on issues ranging from work hours and conditions to health and safety.
The government said its aim was to merge at least three of the current four bodies.
June 28: bill allowing the government to pass executive decrees on the labour reform to be presented to cabinet
Summer: parliament to discuss and vote on the bill
Before Sept. 21: executive decrees to be published
Spring 2018: separate bill to reform the unemployment insurance system and vocational training to be reviewed by parliament
Later in 2018: pension reform
PARIS (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia's foreign minister said on Tuesday the damage caused by economic measures taken by some Arab states against Qatar should convince it change its policies, including regarding extremist groups.
"We believe that common sense and logic and will convince Qatar to take the right steps," Adel al-Jubeir told reporters in Paris.
"The decisions that were made were very strong and will have a fairly large cost on Qatar and we do not believe that Qataris want to sustain those costs."
McAllen, Texas (Reuters) - Standing on the bluffs of Roma, Texas on a May afternoon two border patrol agents look out over the meandering Rio Grande River that separates Mexico from the United States and recall a time when the scene was far less tranquil.
Last fall, during the waning months of the Obama administration, hundreds of immigrants crossed the river on rafts at this point each day, many willingly handing themselves over to immigration authorities in hopes of being released into the United States to await court proceedings that would decide their fate.
Now, the agents look out on an empty landscape. Foot paths up from the water have started to disappear under growing brush, with only the stray baby shoe or toothbrush serving as reminders of that migrant flood.
The reason for the change, the agents say, is a perception in Mexico and Central America that President Donald Trump has ended the practice known as "catch-and-release," in which immigrants caught in the United States without proper documents were released to live free, often for years, as their cases ran through the court system.
Now, would-be border violators know "they'll be detained and then turned right back around," said one of the two agents, Marlene Castro. "It's not worth it anymore," she said.
Castro was simply echoing her boss, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, who said on a visit to El Paso, Texas in April, “We have ended dangerous catch-and-release enforcement policies.”
But immigration attorneys, government statistics and even some officials from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which falls under Kelly, suggest that despite the DHS chief's statement, there has been no clear change to the catch-and-release policy.
That's in large part because there are legal constraints on who can be detained and for how long, due to a shortage of beds and a court ruling limiting the stay of women and children in custody to 21 days.
A separate court ruling limits detention time for immigrants whose countries refuse to repatriate them. And Kelly noted in a February memorandum that asylum seekers that have proven they have a “credible fear” of returning home could be candidates for release if they present “neither a security risk nor a risk of absconding.”
Daniel Bible, ICE field office director for Southern Texas, told Reuters he and his colleagues have not been issued new directions, and so continue to release illegal immigrants deemed to be low security risks, usually with notices to appear in court.
“We look at each case the same way we always have," Bible said.
DHS spokeswoman Jenny Burke confirmed to Reuters that the agency has not issued new guidance for releasing migrants caught at the border.
Asked to explain why there had been no new guidance, given Kelly's statement in April, Burke said, “ICE officers make custody determinations on a case-by-case basis, prioritising detention resources.”
In a memo made public in February, Kelly defined catch and release as any policy that allows immigrants to be released from detention while they await their court hearings, making it easy to abscond. Ending catch and release was one of Trump's central promises during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Some advocates who work with migrants say they have seen little change since Trump came into office.
“Sure, people are still being released," said Kevin Appleby, senior director of international migration policy at the Center for Migration Studies. "Not because they believe in releasing them, but because there are not enough beds at the moment."
ICE declined to provide data on the number of migrants being released into the United States. But other ICE data not previously published and reviewed by Reuters shows the pool of people not in custody and awaiting court appearances is growing.
Since Trump took office in late January, the number of immigrants awaiting court proceedings while living freely in the United States has grown by nearly 30,000, rising by an average of about 7,500 per month, according to the ICE data.
During the last seven months of President Barack Obama’s presidency, the rolls of those awaiting legal proceedings outside of custody grew more rapidly, at an average of about 20,600 people per month.
Part of the slower rate under Trump can be traced to a 58 percent drop in apprehensions of people crossing the border.
Still, the numbers suggest the Trump administration is a long way from ending catch-and-release.
In part that is because his administration has come up against the reality that there simply is not enough space in detention centres.
Congress has funded about 34,000 beds to detain immigration violators, and the average daily population of detainees has been near or above capacity since before Trump took office.
One way the administration hopes to free up detention space is to decrease the time it takes to resolve cases.
The Justice Department has requested funding to hire an additional 125 immigration judges over the next two years, an increase of 50 percent.
In the meantime, some border officials hope would-be migrants remain nervous. When told that ICE detention centres are still releasing many immigrants to live in the United States, Castro and her border agent colleague, who declined to be named, exchanged a look and then shrugged.
"Don't tell them that," her colleague said.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's elite police unit opened an inquiry on Monday after thousands of emails relating to alleged fraud in awarding government contracts were leaked, adding to a graft scandal that has deepened splits in the ruling African National Congress.
Last week, AmaBhungane, a non-profit group that has a strong track record of exposing what it says is government corruption, released some of more than 100,000 leaked emails and documents.
"An inquiry has been opened ... obviously, we will look at the authenticity of these emails, how were they leaked, but this is something that we've just started," a spokesman for the Hawks police unit, Hangwani Mulaudzi, said.
AmaBhungane said last week the emails show companies owned by the Gupta family unduly influence the awarding of government contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Reuters was not independently able to verify the allegations.
Zuma has denied wrongdoing and the Gupta family and its companies have also denied all allegations of influence-peddling or improper dealings.
Gary Naidoo, a spokesman for the Gupta family, did not respond to calls from Reuters for comment on Monday.
Factions in the ANC are battling for control before a party conference in December where they must choose a successor to President Jacob Zuma. He has survived two no-confidence votes in the last six months and can stay in power until a 2019 election.
The 75-year-old has survived political and personal scandals before, fending off accusations of graft and rape before he took office in 2009. Parliament is expected to hold a no-confidence vote on Zuma this year. He has survived those before too.
Allegations against the Gupta family were investigated last year by the Public Protector, an anti-graft watchdog, whose report in November called for an judicial inquiry but did not say any crimes had been committed.
Separately on Monday, River Group said it had ended its role as corporate governance adviser to Oakbay Resources, majority owned by the Guptas, citing "association risk".
Other businesses that have severed links with Oakbay include auditors KPMG, investment bank Sasfin and all four major banks: Standard Bank, Barclays Africa, Nedbank and FirstRand.
"The reason for River Group's termination of their services is due to their revised assessment of association risk surrounding the company and its shareholders," Oakbay said in a regulatory filing, without giving further details.
That gives Oakbay 30 days from July 31 to find a new sponsor, required under Johannesburg Stock Exchange rules, otherwise its listing could be suspended.
Principal partner at River Group, Andrew Lianos, told Reuters his firm had a history of not being involved in politics and wanted to maintain this track record.
"We feel that politics has no place in business-related matters and in view of the ongoing developments over the last six months we had no option but to review our position," he said.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's interior ministry said on Monday it would strip citizenship from 130 people suspected of militant links, including the U.S.-based cleric it says orchestrated last July's failed coup, unless they return to Turkey within three months.
In a list of what it called fugitives from justice, the ministry named Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) lawmakers Faysal Sariyildiz and Tugba Hezer, and former HDP lawmaker Ozdal Ucer.
Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999, has denied involvement in the coup and condemned it.
The notice said the suspects identified in the list would be stripped of Turkish citizenship unless they returned to Turkey within the time limit and applied to the "relevant authorities".
Turkish Deputy Prime Minister and government spokesman Numan Kurtulmus said later on Monday that the cabinet would make the final decision on which of the "fugitives"' would have their citizenship removed.
Asked whether stripping the suspects of citizenship would rule out extradition, as they would not be citizens of the country requesting their return, Kurtulmus said the cabinet would consider this in its decision.
Since the July coup attempt, authorities have arrested 50,000 people and sacked or suspended 150,000, including soldiers, police, teachers and public servants, over alleged links with terrorist groups.
While Turkish officials say the steps are necessary due to the gravity of the coup attempt which killed more than 240 people, critics in Turkey and abroad say President Tayyip Erdogan is using the coup as a pretext to muzzle dissent and purge opponents.
More than a dozen HDP lawmakers have also been jailed, mostly due to suspected links with the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which has waged a three-decade insurgency in Turkey.
The party's co-leaders, Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag, have also been jailed, handicapping its campaign against the April referendum where Turks narrowly voted for constitutional changes to grant Erdogan sweeping new powers.
The HDP denies direct ties to the PKK, which is considered a terrorist organisation by the United States, Turkey and the European Union.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Finland's nationalist Finns party should stay in the centre-right government despite its upcoming leadership changes to ensure continuity in economic policy, Helsinki's Europe minister said on Monday.
Sampo Terho, who is campaigning to take over the eurosceptic party's leadership in a vote on Saturday, said the three-party coalition would be best to hold on until the 2019 general election because its austerity and reform programme was finally showing positive results.
His rival Jussi Halla-aho is a European Parliament deputy and anti-immigration hardliner who has hinted he might quit the coalition, which could derail planned health care and local government reforms in the government's drive to balance public finances.
Finland's economy is recovering from a decade of stagnation and a string of problems, including the decline of Nokia's former phone business. The government, which includes Prime Minister Juha Sipila's Centre Party and the conservative NCP, has cut spending and reformed labour laws to boost growth.
"It is important to have the government in place until the end of the term," Terho told Reuters in an interview.
"Our economy is growing and long-term unemployment is coming down after a long negative period, so it would be regrettable to endanger this development," he said. "The coalition must not be driven to inoperativeness at this stage of the election term."
Terho is the more moderate of the two candidates for the Finns leadership and seen as the favourite of the outgoing leader, Foreign Minister Timo Soini, whose decision to step down as party chief precipitated the leadership vote.
The Finns party, formerly known as True Finns, is known for complicating EU bailout talks of troubled states during the euro zone debt crisis. But since joining the government in 2015, it has had to make compromises that have sent its support dropping.
In April's local government election, the party won 8.8 percent support, down from 17.7 percent in a 2015 parliamentary election. The reaction from the party's grass roots was to call for a tougher policy line.
The latest opinion poll by Taloustutkimus shows 40 percent of Finns voters back Halla-aho as the new party leader, while Terho has the support of 26 percent.
Terho argued the race was open and polls were inaccurate as any party member could show up and cast a vote in the party congress in Jyvaskyla, in central Finland, on Saturday.
While Halla-aho wants Finland to leave the European Union, Terho sticks to his government's official pro-EU line, saying he could only consider a referendum on EU membership after the 2019 election.
"The EU has changed a lot after Finland voted on joining it in 1994, and we did not have a referendum for joining the euro," said Terho, who was named minister for Europe, culture and sports only a month ago. "At some point it would be justified to measure the democratic legitimacy."
"On general level, I'm disturbed by the development where political and economical power is being taken from the member states to the central administration."
While some analysts have voiced their concern on the government's future after the Finns party vote, Nordea Bank chief economist Aki Kangasharju said he believed the coalition could avert a crisis.
"With early elections, the government would pass the puck straight to the Social Democrats and the opposition, and they won't let that happen," he said.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, in a clear jab at U.S. President Donald Trump's move to quit a major climate change pact, said on Monday the world needed "the courage to confront hard truths" on global warming.
Trudeau's remarks were the first he has made in public since Trump announced on Thursday that the United States would withdraw from the Paris accord. Trudeau issued a statement at the time saying he was deeply disappointed.
"The future is still bright for those who have the courage to confront hard truths, and the confidence to stay the course," he said in public remarks after briefly paddling along the Niagara River to mark World Environment Day.
"Canada will not back down from its commitment to fight climate change - and we are not alone. Around the world, nearly every country is on our side. ... Inaction is not an option," he added. "We can't walk away from the reality of climate change."
News of the planned U.S. withdrawal ramped up tension ahead of talks on renegotiating the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Canada is already at odds with Washington over dairy subsidies, as well as exports of lumber and airliners.
CAIRO (Reuters) - The Central Bank of Egypt said on Monday that it had issued no instructions to halt the buying or selling of the Qatari riyal.
There would be no restrictions on exchanging the Qatari currency to Egyptian pounds or any foreign currencies, the bank said in a statement.
Egypt was one of four Arab nations to cut diplomatic ties with Qatar on Monday, along with Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. Yemen, Libya's eastern-based government and the Maldives joined in later.
Some Egyptian banks earlier halted dealings with Qatari banks, and some stopped accepting Qatari currency, responding to Cairo's announcement that it had cut ties with Qatar.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. military on Monday lauded Qatar for its "enduring commitment to regional security" and said U.S. flights out of an air base there were unaffected by several major Arab states' decision to cut ties with Qatar over its alleged support for Islamists and Iran.
"We've seen no impact to our operations and all flights continue as planned," Lieutenant Colonel Damien Pickart, a spokesman at U.S. Air Forces Central Command, told Reuters.
"The United States and the (anti-Islamic State, U.S.-led) coalition are grateful to the Qataris for their longstanding support of our presence and their enduring commitment to regional security."
ANKARA (Reuters) - Germany will have to pull its forces out of the Incirlik air force base in southern Turkey because of Turkish government  restrictions on German lawmakers seeking to visit troops there, Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said on Monday.
Gabriel was speaking after a meeting in Ankara with his Turkish counterpart, Mevlut Cavusoglu, which had aimed to address the standoff over Incirlik and other diplomatic tensions between the two NATO allies.
"My Turkish colleague explained to me that in the current situation, Turkey is not able to allow every visit by German parliamentarians to Incirlik - for domestic reasons," Gabriel told a news conference.
Expressing regret, Gabriel said that as a result Germany "must transfer soldiers out of Incirlik, because the German parliament has a parliamentary army and places value on German lawmakers being able to visit Bundeswehr soldiers at any time."
Shortly after he spoke, sources in Prime Minister Binali Yildirim's office said the Turkish premier had cancelled a planned meeting with Gabriel, citing a busy work schedule.
Turkey's ties with Germany and other European Union states deteriorated sharply in the run-up to Turkey's April 16 referendum that handed President Tayyip Erdogan stronger presidential powers.
Germany, citing security concerns, banned some Turkish politicians from addressing rallies of expatriate Turks before the referendum. Ankara responded by accusing Berlin of "Nazi-like" tactics, drawing rebukes from Berlin.
Turkey has prevented German lawmakers from visiting the roughly 250 troops stationed at Incirlik, saying that Germany needs to improve its attitude first.
Gabriel said the search for an alternative location for the troops, part of a mission providing reconnaissance aircraft to support U.S.-led coalition operations against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, would start "this week or next week". Berlin has said Jordan is one of the possible options to host the troops.
Neither Turkey nor Germany wanted the decision to transfer soldiers out of Incirlik to "further worsen our relationship", Gabriel said.
"We believe that when we have settled this problem ... then we will have the chance to work on all the other points where we are firmly convinced that we have common interests".
However, Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Roth, a member of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Social Democrat coalition partners, said differences with Ankara would remain.
"The Turkish government will be absent as a close partner, as a strategic and military partner, for the foreseeable future," he said. "The export of armaments to Turkey must also be stopped immediately".
Aside from the Incirlik dispute, Germany has expressed concern about the security crackdown in Turkey after last year's failed coup. Some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs and 50,000 people jailed pending trial.
Turkish officials say the steps are necessary because of the gravity of the coup attempt, which killed more than 240 people. But critics in Turkey and abroad say Erdogan is using the failed coup as a pretext to muzzle dissent and purge opponents.
German officials said last month that 414 Turkish citizens with diplomatic passports and other government work permits had requested asylum since the attempted putsch. Berlin's interior ministry has confirmed that asylum requests had been approved for a number of them, a move that angered Ankara.
"Those who seek asylum to escape Turkey and have been mixed up in the coup should be extradited," Cavusoglu told the news conference.
He said relations between the two countries, as well as regional cooperation, had suffered recently. "If Germany takes one step towards us, we can take two towards them, but we cannot overlook the current situation," he said.
Germany has also pushed for the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel, who was arrested in Turkey in February on a charge of spreading terrorist propaganda,
"The accusations about Yucel are not related to journalism, but rather to terror. This is a sensitive issue for all of us," Cavusoglu said, adding that the case was a matter for the courts.
"Our independent judiciary is carrying out the process. The judiciary will make the decision on Yucel," Cavusoglu said.
CARACAS (Reuters) - Two Venezuelan lawmakers said they were roughed up on Monday by soldiers blocking an opposition sit-in against President Nicolas Maduro, with one pushed into a manhole.
Juan Requesens and Miguel Pizarro, both of the First Justice party and proponents of civil disobedience, were surrounded by National Guard soldiers when they approached a highway in Caracas that demonstrators had sought to occupy from dawn.
Requesens said he was shoved into an open manhole, where TV images showed him emerging bruised and angry, while Pizarro said he was hit with a riot shield and punched in the face.
"Have the National Guard gone crazy, or what?" Requesens said to reporters on the scene, as supporters helped him out of the manhole that was deeper than him. "Despite all this violence, we are going to stay on the streets."
Maduro foes are in their third month of protests to demand general elections, freedom for jailed activists, foreign humanitarian aid and autonomy for the opposition-controlled National Assembly.
The government calls the protesters violent coup-mongers, supported by the United States, and security forces have been quick to snuff out protests in recent days. On Monday, they fired tear gas to disperse knots of demonstrators in various parts of the capital.
At least 65 people have died in the unrest since early April, with hundreds more injured. Some 3,000 people have been arrested, with around one-third still behind bars, according to rights group Penal Forum.
Both Requesens and Pizarro are young lawmakers frequently at the front line of protests and close to rowdy clashes which they broadcast live on social media.
PRAGUE (Reuters) - The Czech Republic will halt taking in migrants under an EU scheme to share asylum seekers who arrived in Greece and Italy, citing security concerns, the government agreed on Monday.
Under a plan agreed in 2015, the European Commission wants EU member states to each admit a quota from a total of 160,000 asylum seekers stuck in the two Mediterranean countries. Most have fled conflicts and poverty in the Middle East and Africa.
But several EU members including the Czech Republic have protested the decision and some have refused to take in any people under the scheme.
By last month, the Czech Republic has only taken in a dozen out of the 2,691 migrants set by its quota, according to news agency CTK.
It will take no more before the plan expires in September, Interior Minister Milan Chovanec said.
"Due to the aggravated security situation and the dysfunctionality of the whole system, the government approved... a proposal to halt this system for the Czech Republic," Chovanec told a news conference following a cabinet meeting.
"That means the Czech Republic will not be asking for migrants to be relocated from Greece and Italy."
Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have refused to admit any asylum seekers under the scheme. Slovakia and Hungary have challenged the quotas in an EU court.
The European Commission has said it would decide in June on any legal cases against countries failing to take in their share of refugees and other migrants.
Chovanec said his ministry would coordinate the defence of any EU action against the Czech Republic related to the decision.
The Czech Republic will hold an election in October. Immigration is a sensitive topic, with most Czechs opposed to taking in people from Muslim countries.
The EU took in some 1.6 million people in 2014-2016. Greece has seen numbers drop after the bloc sealed a deal with Turkey to cut off arrivals transiting through that country, but Italy is facing increased arrivals from Libya.
The relocation scheme has fallen far short of what was planned with fewer than 18,500 people relocated so far.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. partnerships with Gulf nations are "incredibly important," a U.S. State Department official said on Monday, after the Arab world's strongest powers cut ties with Qatar over its alleged support for Islamists and Iran.
"All of our partnerships in the Gulf are incredibly important and we count on the parties to find a way to resolve their differences sooner rather than later," the official said.
BENGHAZI, Libya (Reuters) - Libya's eastern-based government has followed regional allies in cutting diplomatic ties with Qatar, its foreign minister, Mohamed Dayri, said on Monday.
It blamed Qatar for funding groups that have contributed to Libya's current divisions. Qatar denounces accusations that it supports militants as lies.
The Libyan move is largely symbolic because the government, which sits in the eastern city of Bayda, has little authority within Libya and is not recognised internationally. Qatar has not had a presence in eastern Libya for several years.
The Bayda government is aligned with an eastern-based parliament and powerful military commander Khalifa Haftar. They have spurned a U.N.-backed, internationally recognised government in the capital, Tripoli.
A spokesman for the eastern parliament, Abdallah Bilhaq, said the chamber was also cutting ties with Qatar.
The announcement came after Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed ties with Qatar, accusing it of supporting terrorism.
Regional powers have sided with opposing camps that have vied for power in Libya since the 2011 uprising that toppled veteran strongman leader Muammar Gaddafi. Their interventions are widely seen as worsening the conflict.
Egypt and the UAE are considered key supporters of Haftar, who has built his position battling Islamist militants and other opponents in eastern Libya. East Libyan authorities accuse Qatar of backing rival, Islamist-leaning factions in western Libya.
In a statement, the Bayda government's foreign ministry said Qatari support for Islamist groups and political parties had led to the rise of the self-declared National Salvation government in western and southern Libya in 2014.
The National Salvation government was set up in 2014 after armed supporters took control of Tripoli, prompting their rivals to move to the east. It has been sidelined since the arrival of the U.N.-backed Government of National Accord in the capital in March last year.
During the same period, Haftar's self-styled Libyan National Army (LNA) has gained ground in central and southern Libya, taking control of oil facilities and military bases. Most recently they have advanced near oasis towns in the Jufra and Sabha regions.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenya's most flamboyant anti-corruption activist, Boniface Mwangi spent years enraging politicians with headline-grabbing stunts, once herding blood-drenched pigs to parliament to highlight legislators' sky-high salaries.
Now he's running for office.
Mwangi, the fiery 33-year-old son of a street hawker, promises to force change from within if he wins a parliamentary seat in the Aug. 8 elections, when Kenyans choose a president, parliamentarians and local representatives.
Winning the seat he seeks in a Nairobi district could be tricky. Kenyans are used to politicians showing up in convoys of luxury cars around elections, handing out small banknotes while asking for votes, a practice that is illegal but ubiquitous. Instead of cash, Mwangi offers flyers and handshakes.
"Will you sell yourself for 500 shillings ($5) for five years?" he asked one group of men.
One of them, Joseph Outo, held up a flyer and shouted back to laughter from the crowd: "What can I do with this? Where's the T-shirts? Where's the money?"
But win or lose, his candidacy is attracting an unusual degree of national attention, contributing to public anger over scandals rocking President Uhuru Kenyatta's government.
"In Kenya, we have vampire leaders, they suck our blood every day," Mwangi told Reuters in a brief pause during campaigning. "I’m tired of not being listened to, I’m tired of our thieving politicians ... I’m running to become the voice of the people inside parliament."
Mwangi, who formed his own small Ukweli party, is not supporting any presidential candidate: neither Kenyatta, seeking a second five-year term, nor his chief rival, veteran opposition leader Raila Odinga, who ran in the last two elections.
Mwangi says his views were forged during post-election violence a decade ago, when more than 1,200 people were killed following a disputed vote.
A young news photographer then, he took pictures of lynchings, severed limbs, a church full of families burned alive. When the violence stopped, Mwangi and others launched a travelling photo exhibition to remind citizens of the suffering politics can cause.
The violence is brutal because the stakes are so high, Mwangi said. Kenyan politicians have some of the world's highest salaries - parliamentarians earn more than $10,000 per month with perks - and they often steal more. The average monthly salary in Kenya is $108.
"Violence comes from politicians, not the people," the father-of-three told Reuters as he campaigned outside Nairobi's sprawling Marakiti market, where women breastfed babies above overflowing gutters and a hawker demonstrated glue traps using live rats.
Since the riots, Mwangi helped organise a graffiti campaign depicting politicians as vultures, marched into clouds of teargas alongside primary school children protesting against illegal construction on their playground, and burned coffins outside parliament to protest against retired politicians getting taxpayer-funded funerals.
Mwangi has publicly declared his assets and his taxes and challenged his rivals to do the same. If elected he'll take a 50 percent pay cut and refuse the car loan, bodyguard and medical allowance that come with the job, he says.
The president acknowledges his government has been slow to tackle graft, telling journalists in October: "Corruption is frustrating me ... but my hands are tied". As Kenya's economy and government have grown, so have the opportunities to steal.
The country's budget has nearly tripled over the last five years, and "the level of corruption has been rising alongside the same," said Halakhe Waqo, the head of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, which investigates corrupt officials and recommends prosecutions.
The number of prosecutions has shot up from 138 five years ago to around 1,000 now, he said. The conviction rates is also slowly increasing, although Kenyans want to see more senior officials in the dock.
Edward Ouko, the auditor-general tasked with looking after public accounts, told Reuters at least 18 of the 45 government ministries have accountability problems "which point to literally corruption". He estimates around a third of government payments are misappropriated.
In one notable recent scam, at least $15 million was paid out of government accounts after someone created fake companies and submitted invoices to the National Youth Service, Ouko said.
A woman who was caught after collecting the cash from a bank in sacks said she was the hairdresser of the then cabinet secretary, Anne Waiguru. Waiguru denies any involvement and called the allegations "a smear campaign". She is now running to be a county governor.
In another scandal, millions of dollars are alleged to have gone missing from the health ministry; USAID stopped giving to the ministry last month over corruption concerns.
Ouko, the auditor, is himself being investigated by Waqo's anti-corruption commission for buying computer software without going through the correct tendering process. He says only one company made the software he needed and he believes the case is politically motivated.
Many cases get bogged down the court system. Wealthy defendants "will always go to court and procure a court order to stop us from investigating," Waqo said.
Mwangi, who has been arrested around a dozen times during protests, puts it more simply.
"In Kenya, you are guilty until proven rich," he said with a wry smile. "Why would you hire a lawyer? You buy the judge."
Voters, used to grand promises, don't all trust him yet.
"I will vote for him. We see him (in newspapers) fighting for our rights," declared spinach seller Mary Njau.
"But what will stop him from changing after he is elected?" asked her customer Irene Njoki.
LONDON (Reuters) - Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain must be tougher in  stamping out Islamist extremism after attackers killed at least seven people by ramming a van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbing revellers in nearby bars.
After the third militant attack in Britain in less than three months, May said Thursday's national election would go ahead. But she proposed regulating cyberspace and said Britain had been far too tolerant of extremism.
"It is time to say enough is enough," the Conservative leader said outside her Downing Street office, where British flags flew at half-staff.
"We cannot and must not pretend that things can continue as they are," May said, adding that Britain was under attack from a new breed of crude copycat militants.
Islamic State, which is losing territory in Syria and Iraq to an offensive backed by a U.S.-led coalition, said its militants were responsible for the attack, the group's media agency Amaq said in a statement monitored in Cairo.
One French national and one Canadian were among those killed. At least 48 people were injured in the attack. Australia said one of its citizens was among the injured.
Police shot dead the three male assailants in the Borough Market area near London Bridge within eight minutes of receiving the first emergency call shortly after 10 p.m. (2100 GMT).
Mark Rowley, head of counter-terrorism police, said eight officers had fired about 50 bullets to stop the attackers, who appeared to be suicide bombers because they were wearing what turned out to be fake suicide vests.
"The situation these officers were confronted with was critical: a matter of life and death," Rowley said. "I am humbled by the bravery of an officer who will rush towards a potential suicide bomber thinking only of protecting others."
A member of the public received non-critical gunshot wounds. Police did not release the names of the attackers.
London police arrested 12 people in the Barking district of east London in connection with the attack and raids were continuing there, the force said. A Reuters photographer saw another raid take place in nearby East Ham.
Less than two weeks ago, a suicide bomber killed 22 children and adults at a concert by U.S. singer Ariana Grande in Manchester in northern England. In March, in a attack similar to Saturday's, five people died after a man drove into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge in central London and stabbed a policeman.
May said the series of attacks were not connected in terms of planning and execution, but were inspired by what she called a "single, evil ideology of Islamist extremism" that represented a perversion of Islam and of the truth.
She said this ideology had to be confronted both abroad and at home, adding that the internet and big internet companies provided the space for such extremism to breed.
Facebook said it wanted to make its social media platform a "hostile environment" for terrorists. Twitter also said it was working to tackle the spread of militant propaganda.
After the Manchester attack, Britain raised its threat level to "critical" - meaning an attack is expected imminently - but downgraded it back to "severe", which means an attack is highly likely, on May 27.
Witnesses described harrowing scenes as the attackers' white van veered on and off the bridge sidewalk, hitting people along the way, and the three men then ran into an area packed with bars and restaurants, stabbing people indiscriminately.
Accounts emerged of people trying to barricade themselves in a pub while others tried throwing tables and other objects to fend off the attackers.
One eyewitness said the attackers screamed "this is for Allah" as they stabbed people.
England's health authority said on Sunday afternoon that 36 of those injured remained in hospital, of whom 21 were in a critical condition.
May made a private visit to staff and patients at King's College Hospital, where some of the injured were being treated, a spokeswoman said.
The government announced that a nationwide minute of silence would be held at 1000 GMT on Tuesday to pay respect to the victims of the attack and flags would remain at half-mast on government buildings until Tuesday evening.
A Reuters photographer saw four women being removed from an apartment block in Barking, shielding their faces as they stepped into police vans.
Islamic State militants had sent out a call on instant messaging service Telegram early on Saturday urging its followers to carry out attacks with trucks, knives and guns against "Crusaders" during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Islamist militants have carried out scores of deadly attacks in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the United States over the past two years.
"We believe we are experiencing a new trend in the threat we face as terrorism breeds terrorism," May said.
"Perpetrators are inspired to attack not only on the basis of carefully constructed plots ... and not even as lone attackers radicalised online, but by copying one another and often using the crudest of means of attack."
May, who served as Britain's interior minister from 2010 to 2016, said there was too much tolerance of extremism in Britain.
"While we have made significant progress in recent years, there is - to be frank - far too much tolerance of extremism in our country," she said, urging Britons to be more robust in stamping it out in the public sector and in wider society.
Opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said Britain needed to have difficult conversations with Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states about the funding of Islamist extremism.
U.S. President Donald Trump, taking to Twitter on Sunday, urged the world to stop being "politically correct" in order to ensure public security against terrorism.
Most of the main political parties suspended election campaigning on Sunday, but May said this would resume on Monday. The anti-European Union UK Independence Party said it would not suspend its campaign because disrupting democracy was what the extremists wanted.
London Bridge is a transport hub and nearby Borough Market is a fashionable warren of alleyways leavened with bars and restaurants that is always bustling on a Saturday night.
The area remained cordoned off and patrolled by armed police and counter-terrorism officers on Sunday, with train stations closed. Forensic investigators could be seen working on the bridge, where buses and taxis stood abandoned.
At several points outside the cordon, people laid flowers and messages of grief and solidarity.
Ariana Grande and other music stars were giving a benefit concert at Manchester's Old Trafford cricket ground on Sunday evening to raise funds for victims of the concert bombing and their families.
"Today's One Love Manchester benefit concert will not only continue, but will do so with greater purpose," Grande's manager, Scooter Braun, said on Twitter after the London attack.
London Mayor Sadiq Khan said the official threat level in Britain remained at severe, meaning a militant attack is highly likely. It had been raised to critical after the Manchester attack, then lowered again days later.
"One of the things we can do is show that we aren't going to be cowed is by voting on Thursday and making sure that we understand the importance of our democracy, our civil liberties and our human rights," Khan said.
In tweets, Trump offered help to Britain but also levelled apparent criticism of Khan for saying there was no need to be alarmed. Khan had earlier said Londoners would see an increased police presence on the streets of the city and people should not be alarmed by that.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and Russian President Vladimir Putin were among those who sent messages of condolence and made statements of solidarity.
The Manchester bombing on May 22 was the deadliest attack in Britain since July 2005, when four British Muslim suicide bombers killed 52 people in coordinated assaults on London's transport network.
LONDON (Reuters) - A man pictured calmly taking his pint of beer with him as other people fled past him during Saturday's deadly attack in London has been cast as an unlikely hero who encapsulates British humour and defiance.
Dressed in a red t-shirt and sauntering casually with a friend, the drinker stood out in Sky News footage of men and women running down Borough High Street, away from the London Bridge scene of the attack that left seven people dead and 48 injured.
The image spread like wildfire across Twitter and British newspapers said the man, whose identity is unknown, was a symbol of defiance.
"True symbol of the British spirit as man flees terrorist attack clutching his pint," said student Henry Slesser (@HenrySlesser), on Twitter.
Others joked that it was only right that he should take his beer with him, given London's notoriously high prices.
"Evacuate? Well, OK. But this beer cost six pounds ($7.74) a pint. I'm taking it with me," said another Twitter user, Andrew Brooks (@taxbod).
Londoners take pride in, and sometimes joke about, showing fortitude during adversity.
Tourist shops are awash with memorabilia emblazoned with "Keep calm and carry on", a slogan drawn from a World War Two poster that became popular in the last 10 years.
Saturday's attack, in which three men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge before stabbing people in nearby bars and restaurants, occurred five days before a parliamentary election.
British Prime Minister Theresa May said the vote would go ahead as planned on Thursday.
Residents of the northern English city Manchester also looked to their city's culture for solace after a suicide bombing at a pop concert killed 22 people and injured 116 nearly two weeks ago, Britain's deadliest attack in almost 12 years.
LONDON (Reuters) - Facebook said it wanted to make its social media platform a "hostile environment" for terrorists in a statement issued after attackers killed seven people in London and prompted Prime Minister Theresa May to demand action from internet firms.
Three attackers rammed a hired van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbed others nearby on Saturday night in Britain's third major militant attack in recent months.
May responded to the attack by calling for an overhaul of the strategy used to combat extremism, including a demand for greater international regulation of the internet, saying big internet companies were partly responsible for providing extreme ideology the space to develop.
Facebook on Sunday said it condemned the London attacks.
"We want Facebook to be a hostile environment for terrorists," said Simon Milner, Director of Policy at Facebook in an emailed statement.
"Using a combination of technology and human review, we work aggressively to remove terrorist content from our platform as soon as we become aware of it — and if we become aware of an emergency involving imminent harm to someone's safety, we notify law enforcement."
May has previously put pressure on internet firms to take more responsibility for content posted on their services. Last month she pledged, if she wins an upcoming election, to create the power to make firms pay towards the cost of policing the internet with an industry-wide levy.
Twitter also said it was working to tackle the spread of militant propaganda on its website.
"Terrorist content has no place on Twitter," Nick Pickles, UK head of public policy at Twitter, said in a statement, adding that in the second half of 2016 it had suspended nearly 400,000 accounts.
"We continue to expand the use of technology as part of a systematic approach to removing this type of content."
(Reuters) - Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism, in an unprecedented breach between the most powerful members of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Here are some business deals that have either been affected by the rift or could be affected.
* Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain said they were cutting air, sea and land transport links with Qatar, while Egypt said it was closing its air space and sea ports to all Qatari transport. Hundreds of weekly flights by airlines including Qatar Airways, Emirates and Saudia were cancelled.
* Some Egyptian banks halted dealings with Qatari banks, banking sources said. Bankers in Saudi Arabia and the UAE said the situation was normal and they had received no guidance from their central banks on ties.
* Qatar National Bank has been planning to apply for an investment banking licence for its Saudi unit. QNB recently opened a bank branch in Riyadh. A source familiar with the matter said it was business as usual at the bank's branches in Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
* Al-Ahli Saudi football club has suspended a contract with Qatar Airways at the direction of the Saudi government.* Qatari shipping group Milaha is among potential buyers of United Arab Chemical Carriers (UACC), which is 45 percent owned by United Arab Shipping Co (UASC). Qatar holds a 51 percent stake in UASC and Saudi Arabia, 35 percent.
* At least three international bond issues from Qatar are in the pipeline:
Commercial Bank of Qatar has been in talks with banks about a potential international bond.
Islamic lender Masraf Al Rayan has mandated banks ahead of a planned U.S. dollar sukuk issue of at least $500 million. The plan was put on hold because of three-bank merger discussions between Masraf Al Rayan, Barwa Bank and International Bank of Qatar.
Qatar International Islamic Bank has appointed banks ahead of a potential dollar sukuk issue.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday he was saddened by a rift between Qatar and other Arab states, and called for dialogue to resolve the dispute.
"We see the stability in the Gulf region as our own unity and solidarity," Cavusoglu told a news conference.
"Countries may of course have some issues, but dialogue must continue under every circumstance for problems to be resolved peacefully. We are saddened by the current picture and will give any support for its normalisation," Cavusoglu said.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism and opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.
Turkey's foreign ministry said regional solidarity was needed more than ever in a time of deep instability and crises in various countries of the region.
"Turkey...is ready to do what is required of it to find a solution in the shortest period to this disagreement between fraternal countries," it said in a statement.
LONDON (Reuters) - After militants killed seven people and injured 48 in London, British Prime Minister Theresa May resumes campaigning on Monday just three days before a national election which polls show is much tighter than previously predicted.
May said Britain must be tougher in stamping out Islamist extremism after three knife-wielding assailants rammed a van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbed others nearby.
Following the third militant attack in Britain in less than three months, May said Thursday's election would go ahead and that Britain had been far too tolerant of extremism.
"Violence can never be allowed to disrupt the democratic process," May, who served as interior minister from 2010 to 2016, said outside her Downing Street office on Sunday.
Islamic State, which is losing territory in Syria and Iraq to an offensive backed by a U.S.-led coalition, said its militants were responsible for the attack, though it is unclear what links the attackers had to the group.
London police chief Cressida Dick said that while some of the recent attacks in Britain had international links, they had a largely domestic centre of gravity.
May said the three recent attacks, which have claimed at least 34 lives, are not thought to be connected.
But she said Britain was under threat from a new breed of crude copycat militants who might not have spent years plotting or even been radicalised online.
Deadly attacks by Islamist militants in Paris, Nice, Brussels, Berlin, Manchester and London over recent years have shocked Europeans already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration and pockets of domestic Islamist radicalism.
In an early morning raids in east London, British counter-terrorism police detained more people on Monday. Police arrested 12 people in the Barking district of east London following the attack, though one was later released.
Police have not released the names of the attackers and British newspapers refrained from identifying the men.
"This has been a truly ghastly few weeks," said London police chief Dick, who said the spell of recent attacks was unprecedented in her working experience which began in 1983.
May was due to chair a meeting of the government's emergency response committee on Monday.
It was not immediately clear how the attack would impact the election, though the issue of security has been thrust to the forefront of the campaign after the London Bridge and Manchester attacks.
The campaign was suspended for several days last month when a suicide bomber killed 22 people at a concert by U.S. pop singer Ariana Grande in Manchester.
Grande gave an emotional performance on Sunday at a benefit gig in the city for the victims of the attack, singing with a choir of local schoolchildren, including some who had been at her show.
Before the London Bridge attack, May's gamble on a June 8 snap election had been thrust into doubt after polls showed her Conservative Party's lead had collapsed in recent weeks. [L8N1J007E]
While British pollsters all predict May will win the most seats in Thursday's election, they have given an array of different numbers for how big her win will be, ranging from a landslide victory to a much more slender win without a majority.
Some polls indicate the election could be close, possibly throwing Britain into political deadlock just days before formal Brexit talks with the European Union are due to begin on June 19.
May called the snap election in a bid to strengthen her hand in negotiations on Britain's exit from the European Union, to win more time to deal with the impact of the divorce and to strengthen her grip on the Conservative Party.
If she fails to beat handsomely the 12-seat majority her predecessor David Cameron won in 2015, her electoral gamble will have failed and her authority will be undermined both inside the Conservative Party and at talks with 27 other EU leaders.
May said the series of attacks were not connected in terms of planning and execution, but were inspired by what she called a "single, evil ideology of Islamist extremism" that represented a perversion of Islam and of the truth.
But as a former interior minister, May's record on security is also under scrutiny - police numbers were reduced every year under her watch and as Home Secretary she oversaw the domestic intelligence agency, MI5.
While she was interior minister, police numbers decreased every year. In March 2016 there were 124,066 police officers in England and Wales compared to 143,734 in March 2010.
Opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn criticised May for cutting police numbers and repeated his pledge to recruit 10,000 new police officers, including armed officers.
"The mass murderers who brought terror to our streets in London and Manchester want our election to be halted. They want democracy halted," Corbyn said in Carlisle, northern England.
"They want their violence to overwhelm our right to vote in a fair and peaceful election and to go about our lives freely."
(The story has been refiled to remove typo in paragraph 24 so that figure reads ... 143,734...instead of 1443,734)
CAIRO (Reuters) - Egypt has given the Qatari ambassador in Cairo 48 hours to leave the country and has recalled its senior representative in Doha, the foreign ministry said on Monday.
"The Qatari ambassador was summoned today and given formal notification of the expiry of his accreditation as an ambassador to Egypt, and was given 48 hours to leave the country," a statement from the foreign ministry said.
DUBAI (Reuters) - A diplomatic rift between Qatar and its Gulf neighbours may cost them billions of dollars by slowing trade and investment and making it more expensive for the region to borrow money as it grapples with low oil prices.
With an estimated $335 billion of assets in its sovereign wealth fund, Qatar looks able to avoid an economic crisis over the decision on Monday by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to cut air, sea and land transport links.
The tiny state's newly expanded port facilities mean it can continue liquefied natural gas exports that earned it a trade surplus of $2.7 billion in April, and import by sea goods that used to come over its land border with Saudi Arabia, now closed.
But parts of Qatar's economy could suffer badly if the dispute, over Riyadh's allegations that Doha has been supporting terrorism, drags on for months - a prospect that helped to push the Qatari stock market down more than 7 percent on Monday.
Fast-growing Qatar Airways, at the centre of the tiny state's effort to become a tourism hub, is likely to face losses from being barred some of the Middle East's biggest hubs.
Qatar's government has been borrowing at home and abroad to help finance some $200 billion of infrastructure spending as it prepares to host the World Cup soccer tournament in 2022. A drop in Qatari bond prices on Monday suggested the borrowing will become more expensive - possibly slowing some projects.
Bonds of other countries in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council barely moved on Monday, but some foreign bankers said the whole region could end up paying more to borrow if diplomatic tensions persisted.
“If this dispute goes on for a while, the ramifications could be huge,” said an international banker based in the Gulf, declining to be named because of political sensitivities.
“Asset managers will not differentiate between Qatar and the rest of the GCC, and international managers will take their hands off any credit from the GCC. If Qatar is seen as a terror financing or compliance issue, then asset managers will be cautious."
Because they all rely heavily on oil and gas exports, the GCC states have only weak trade and investment ties with each other, which will limit the economic fallout of their dispute.  The UAE is Qatar's biggest trading partner from the GCC but only its fifth largest globally.
Similarly, Saudi Arabia and other GCC countries traditionally account for only about 5 to 10 percent of trading on the Qatari stock market, according to exchange data, suggesting even a total pull-out would not sink the market.
Nevertheless, Qatar will face higher costs in some areas. Saudi Arabia and the UAE provided $309 million of Qatar's $1.05 billion of food imports in 2015. Much of them, especially dairy products, came over the Saudi land border; Doha will have to make other arrangements for them.
Construction costs in Qatar could also rise, fuelling inflation across the economy, because aluminium and other building materials can no longer be imported by land.
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors from Qatar for eight months in 2014 over Doha's alleged support of Islamist groups, but that had minimal market or economic impact because it did not involve a ban on transport links. Trade and investment went on much as before.
This time, Saudi Arabia has promised to "begin legal procedures for immediate understandings with brotherly and friendly countries and international companies to apply the same procedures as soon as possible".
It is not clear that Riyadh will be able to persuade more countries to cut links with Doha. But it could try to force foreign companies to make a choice between doing business with Qatar and obtaining access to its own, much larger market, which it is opening up as part of economic reforms.
Cairo-based bankers said on Monday that some Egyptian banks had halted dealings with Qatari banks. It was not clear whether GCC banks would do the same; UAE commercial bankers told Reuters they were waiting for guidance from their central bank.
Stock markets in Dubai and several other Gulf centres fell on Monday - although not by nearly as much as Qatar - in a sign that investors around the region were worried.
“Overall it's not good. I don’t think that the region has been in such turmoil so close to home. And I think everyone is speculating how far these steps will go forward," said   Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief executive of Abu Dhabi's NBAD Securities.
"Everyone is hoping that there will be intervention by wise people and things will cool down. But what we have seen is a gradual escalation."
SYDNEY (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Monday that they did not expect a decision by some Gulf countries to sever ties with Qatar to affect the fight against terrorism but urged them to address their differences.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism, in an unprecedented breach between the most powerful members of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
The coordinated move dramatically escalates a dispute over Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood, the world's oldest Islamist movement, and adds accusations that Doha even backs the agenda of regional arch-rival Iran.
"I do not expect that this will have any significant impact, if any impact at all, on the unified - the unified - fight against terrorism in the region or globally," Tillerson told reporters in Sydney after meetings between Australian and U.S. foreign and defence ministers.
The region plays an important role for the U.S. military in the fight against Islamic State. Bahrain houses the U.S. Navy's Fifth fleet, which patrols the seas of the Middle East and Central Asia, while Qatar is home to the Al Udeid Airbase, from where the United States carries out airstrikes against militants in the region.
The decision comes during a critical moment in the fight against Islamic State. The Syrian Kurdish YPG militia said on Saturday that it was days away from a U.S.-backed operation by Syrian forces to capture Islamic State's Syrian "capital" of Raqqa.
The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias backed by the U.S.-led coalition, has been encircling Raqqa since November in a multi-phased campaign to drive Islamic State from the city where it has planned attacks on the West.
The assault on Raqqa will pile more pressure on Islamic State's self-declared "caliphate" with the group facing defeat in the Iraqi city of Mosul and being forced into retreat across much of Syria, where Deir al-Zor is its last major foothold.
Tillerson urged the Gulf Cooperation Council nations to sort out their differences and said that the United States was willing to play a role in helping the countries address their differences.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Three Gulf Arab states and Egypt severed their ties with Qatar on Monday in a dispute over Doha's support for Islamist groups, in particular the Muslim Brotherhood, which they regard as a political enemy.
-- Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Bahrain cut diplomatic and consular relations with the state of Qatar and will close all ground, sea and air ports to forbid transit, state news agencies said.
-- It was not immediately clear when these measures would be implemented. Saudi Arabia said it would "begin immediate legal measures with friendly, sisterly countries and international companies to implement that measure as quickly as possible for all types of transit from and to the state of Qatar."
-- Abu Dhabi-based Ethiad Airways said it  would suspend flights to and from Qatar on Tuesday.
-- The decision forbids Saudi, UAE and Bahraini citizens from travelling to Qatar, residing in it or passing through it, SPA said. Residents and visitors of those countries must leave Qatar within 14 days. Qatari citizens have 14 days to leave Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Qatar.
-- Qatar has been expelled from a Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen.
-- Egypt said it was also severing ties and would close its airspace and seaports for all Qatari transportation to protect its national security. It was not immediately clear whether it was expelling Qataris or had asked its citizens to come home.
ANKARA (Reuters) - A senior Iranian official said on Monday the decision by some Gulf Arab states and Egypt to sever diplomatic ties with Qatar would not help end the crisis in the Middle East.
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Yemen and Egypt accused Qatar of supporting terrorism, opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.
"The era of cutting diplomatic ties and closing borders is over... it is not a way to resolve crisis. These countries have no other option but to start regional dialogue," Hamid Aboutalebi, deputy chief of staff of Iran's President Hassan Rouhani, tweeted on Monday.
"What is happening is the preliminary result of the sword dance," he said in an apparent reference to U.S. President Donald Trump's recent visit to Saudi Arabia.
Trump and other U.S. officials participated in a ceremonial sword dance in a trip to Saudi Arabia last month. During the trip Trump singled out Iran as a key source of funding and support for militant groups.
Iranian authorities have criticised a rising alliance between Washington and Riyadh against Tehran, saying it would further heighten crisis in the Middle East.
Sunni Kingdom Saudi Arabia and Shi'ite-led Iran are at odds over what Riyadh sees as Tehran's efforts to tighten its grip on Arab states, from Iraq to Lebanon, and Syria to Yemen.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Saudi Arabian Airlines (Saudia) has suspended all flights to Qatar, it said on its official Twitter account on Monday, without providing further details.
Other airlines including Emirates, Etihad Airways and Air Arabia have also announced similar moves, while Qatar Airways has suspended flights to Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain cut their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism and opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - An explosion rocked a petrochemical plant in China's eastern  province of Shandong on Monday, killing eight people and injuring nine, state media and local government officials said.
Deadly accidents are common at industrial plants in China, where anger is growing over lax standards after three decades of rapid economic growth marred by incidents ranging from mining disasters to factory fires.
Monday's blast took place about an hour after midnight, triggering fires at the loading area of Linyi Jinyu Petrochemical Co. Ltd. in the Linyi Lingang economic development zone, the state news agency, Xinhua, said.
The toll rose to eight, as authorities confirmed the deaths of seven people who had been reported missing, in addition to one death reported earlier, the local government said on its microblog.
Nine people were injured and the fires have been put out, the government said.
The "responsible person" at the company that runs the plant has been detained, Xinhua added, without giving details.
In 2015, huge chemical explosions in the port city of Tianjin killed more than 170 people, prompting a vow by President Xi Jinping that the authorities would learn the lessons paid for in blood.
TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Seven African migrants died, apparently from suffocation, after being locked for two days in a refrigerated truck that was abandoned by people smugglers on the Libyan coast, officials said.
Twenty-eight others, including five women, were rescued on Sunday when the truck was discovered at Garabulli, a town some 50 km (30 miles) east of Tripoli that is a common departure point for migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean to Italy.
"We got a call from a civilian who reported that he could hear voices coming from a truck, which he believed contained Africans, based on their language," said Adel Mostafa, an anti-illegal migration official in Tripoli.
The survivors said they had been left there by smugglers, according to Hosni Abu Ayana, a second official at the Tripoli detention centre to which they were brought. The migrants said the truck driver left the vehicle at the side of the road after unknown gunmen began firing at the tyres.
Libya is the main gateway for migrants trying to reach Europe by sea. The North African country slipped into turmoil after its 2011 uprising and migrant smugglers operate with impunity, packing people onto ill-equipped boats that often sink or break down.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The investigation into alleged ties between President Donald Trump’s election campaign and Russia is threatening to dampen already flagging momentum for the president’s legislative agenda of rolling back Obamacare and overhauling the tax code.
With the Senate convening on Monday and the House of Representatives on Tuesday for a legislative sprint leading up to an August recess, the spotlight is on James Comey, the FBI director fired by Trump on May 9.
Comey, who will appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, will be grilled on whether Trump tried to get him to back off an investigation into alleged ties between the president's 2016 campaign and Russia.
Trump, a Republican, has called the Russia probe a "witch hunt" designed to undermine the legitimacy of his electoral win.
The Russia matter presents a double-barreled threat to congressional Republicans: It could impede healthcare and tax initiatives that already were languishing and it could hurt efforts to hold onto their majorities in the House and Senate in 2018 midterm elections.
"It's an enormous distraction and it creates uncertainty," said veteran Republican Representative Tom Cole in a telephone interview. "It casts a pall over the political system and slows things down. You don’t want to slow things down when you have all three levers of power," Cole said, referring to the White House, Senate and House.
The day before Comey's scheduled testimony, top U.S. intelligence officials are set to appear before the same panel to discuss renewal of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, which allows the government to collect communications of foreigners thought to be living overseas whose communications pass through American phone or internet providers.
But senators are likely to also wade into the Russia affair.
Lawmakers must also come up with a plan to raise the country's debt limit. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is clamouring for Congress to quickly approve more borrowing authority as the incoming stream of tax revenues slows.
Republican fiscal conservatives routinely demand budget cuts and other concessions as a price for raising the debt limit, setting up a likely fight.
Amid all this, Trump and his fellow Republicans in Congress hope the new work session, following a week-long Memorial Day break, will be a chance to 'reset' the conversation in Washington that has centred on Russia and their failures so far on healthcare and tax legislation.
House Republicans hope this week to pass a repeal of portions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law. But that bill will face resistance in the Senate, where Democrats are expected to use procedural tactics to kill it.
Even so, House Republicans hope passage of 'low-hanging fruit' bills like this will allow them to argue that they have racked up accomplishments when they go home to their districts in August.
Meanwhile, the Senate is struggling to craft legislation repealing and replacing Obamacare, former President Barack Obama's landmark law that expanded health insurance coverage to millions and placed new controls on insurers.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, in a May 24 interview with Reuters said, "I don't know how we get to 50 (votes) at the moment" but pledged to forge ahead.
Senators this week are expected to be presented with  options for a new healthcare program they hope will be more acceptable to voters than one passed by the House.
Failure to agree on a formula by early July could doom the push to kill Obamacare, which has been a Republican vow since it became law in 2010.
Congress is already months behind in writing a budget blueprint that would guide federal spending in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Republicans are deeply divided over the level of defence spending and potential structural reforms to social welfare programs such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
If that is not enough, House Republicans are promising to streamline the antiquated tax code and reduce rates. Democrats and some experts outside of Congress argue their approach would largely help the wealthy while ballooning the nation's debt.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Indian federal investigators launched a fraud probe on Monday into the founders of news channel NDTV, in a step the channel denounced as an attempt to muzzle free speech in the world's largest democracy.
Two senior officials at the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said it had registered a case against NDTV founders Prannoy Roy and his wife, Radhika Roy, for causing an alleged loss of 480 million rupees (5.79 million pounds) to a bank.
The company refuted the allegations and accused the CBI of "concerted harassment of NDTV and its promoters based on the same old endless false accusations".
"NDTV and its promoters will fight tirelessly against this witch-hunt by multiple agencies. We will not succumb to these attempts to blatantly undermine democracy and free speech in India," NDTV said in a statement.
The investigation comes at a time of often heated, polarising debate in India's fiercely competitive TV news industry, where channels sometimes test the boundaries of responsible journalism and prime-time talk shows are often rowdy and contentious.
Police conducted raids at Roy's residence in New Delhi and at two vacation homes.
Neither of the couple were available for comment but NDTV presenter Srinivasan Jain said the "message is clear".
"Any independent voices in media will be bullied and shut down. Black day," tweeted Jain.
The CBI said the investigation had no link to the editorial line of NDTV, India's oldest English-language all-news channel.
"We have nothing against NDTV's news coverage ... they are accused of a financial fraud and its our duty to investigate," a senior CBI official said.
India slipped by three places to 136th in this year's World Press Freedom Index compiled by Reporters Without Borders, which highlighted concerns that Hindu nationalists were "trying to purge all manifestations of anti-national thought".
Senior officials in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office and members of his nationalist BJP have told Reuters they consider NDTV to be the least-government friendly channel.
In a heated exchange last Thursday, an NDTV moderator demanded that a spokesman of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) either apologise or leave their live debate after he accused the channel of pursuing an anti-government agenda.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - The head of the U.S. Army Pacific met his Thai counterpart in Bangkok on Monday, a rare top-level meeting between the old allies' militaries since the United States criticised a Thai military coup in 2014.
The visit to Thailand by General Robert B. Brown, who is also director of the U.S. Missile Defense Agency in Seoul, comes as the United States looks to reassure allies about its commitment to the region.
Brown met General Chalermchai Sitthisart, commander of the Royal Thai Army, at the army's headquarters in Bangkok.
"The United States and Thailand have had a relationship since 1833 ... We have exchanged ideas, cooperated militarily," the Thai army said in a statement.
Neither of the two generals spoke to media following a military parade to welcome Brown.
Thailand is Washington's oldest ally in the region, but ties were strained by the 2014 military coup led by then-army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha that ousted an elected civilian government.
The United States scaled back some military exchanges with Thailand and Thailand responded by forging closer ties with Asian giant China.
But the United States and Thailand have continued to hold joint military exercises including the annual Cobra Gold exercises, Asia's largest multinational drill.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told a regional security conference in Singapore on the weekend that United States remained committed to its Asia-Pacific allies.
U.S. President Donald Trump's "America First" rhetoric and expectations that he would concentrate on a domestic agenda has stoked fears of a retreat from a traditional U.S. security role that has underpinned the region for decades.
Now the United States was reacting to China's growing ties with countries like Thailand and its neighbour, Cambodia, an analyst said.
"The Trump administration would like to re-balance military power in Asia, which has increasingly moved towards China, in an effort to reassert Washington's security influence," Paul Chambers from the College of ASEAN Community Studies at Naresuan University told Reuters.
Last month, Trump invited former army chief Prayuth, who now heads the military government as prime minister, to visit Washington.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Air Arabia said on Monday it had suspended flights between Sharjah and Doha effective Tuesday until further notice.
The airline's last outbound flight from Sharjah to Doha will depart at 18:30 local time on Monday, while the last inbound flight from Doha to Sharjah will depart on Monday at 19:25 local time.
Passengers who hold existing reservations on Air Arabia flights to Doha after June 5 will be provided with the option of a full refund or booked to other destinations, it said.
The move came after Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed their ties with Qatar on Monday, accusing it of supporting terrorism and opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.
LONDON (Reuters) - British police investigating Saturday's attack on London Bridge are working to establish whether the militants were supported by anyone else, the head of the city's police force said on Monday.
"A very high priority for us obviously is to try to understand whether they were working with anyone else, whether anybody else was involved in the planning of this attack and to find out the background to it," London's Metropolitan Police chief Cressida Dick told BBC TV.
"We've carried out searches in a variety of places in east London and we've seized a huge amount of forensic material, so we're working very quickly."
SYDNEY (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Monday the United States and its allies would continue to fight against Islamist extremists and would not be scared by attacks against the West by the Islamic State group.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has said Britain must be tougher in stamping out Islamist extremism after attackers killed at least seven people by ramming a van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbing revellers in nearby bars.    Islamic State, which is losing territory in Syria and Iraq to an offensive backed by a U.S.-led coalition, said its militants were responsible for the attack, the group's media agency Amaq said in a statement monitored in Cairo.
One French national and one Canadian were among those killed. At least 48 people were wounded in the attack, including at least one Australian.
"We are united, as I said, in our resolve, even against an enemy that thinks by hurting us they can scare us," Mattis said, appearing in Sydney alongside U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for the first time outside the United States.
"Well, we don't scare," Mattis said.
Mattis and Tillerson were due to hold a media conference with their Australian counterparts later on Monday.
Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the world would likely see more such attacks, and that it was a problem that the global community must be "vigilant and determined and defiant".
"These criminals, these terrorists, are cowards. There is nothing heroic in what they do," he told an earlier media conference in Sydney.
"Now, this is a corruption, a disease, within Islam. It is a global phenomenon and it has to be dealt with globally," Turnbull said.
The three assailants in the London attack on Saturday were all shot dead by police. It was the third Islamist-inspired attack in the United Kingdom in the past three months, prompting British Prime Minister Theresa May to declare overnight that "enough is enough".
DUBAI (Reuters) - Qatar said it regretted a coordinated decision by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to cut diplomatic relations on Monday over Doha's alleged support for terrorism, according to Qatar-based al Jazeera TV.
"The measures are unjustified and are based on claims and allegations that have no basis in fact," the network quoted the foreign ministry as saying.
Qatar said the decisions would "not affect the normal lives of citizens and residents".
ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - Pakistan has no immediate plans to cut diplomatic ties with Qatar, a spokesman for the South Asian nation's foreign ministry said on Monday.
The country "has no such plans," the spokesman, Nafees Zakaria, said, following Monday's surprise severing of ties with Qatar by Islamabad's key ally, Saudi Arabia, and three other Middle East nations.
"At the moment there is nothing on Qatar issue, (we) will issue a statement if some development takes place," Zakaria said.
Pakistan, which has a significant Shi'ite Muslim population, has in recent years been caught between the feud between its Sunni ally, Saudi Arabia, and Shi'ite-majority neighbour Iran.
LONDON (Reuters) - British police detained a number of people during early morning raids in east London on Monday as part of an investigation into an attack that killed seven people and injured around 50 on Saturday night.
In the third major militant assault to hit Britain in less than three months, attackers rammed a van into pedestrians on London Bridge before stabbing revellers in nearby bars.
Prime Minister Theresa May will chair a meeting of the government's emergency response committee on Monday to discuss the response to the attack which comes ahead of a national election on Thursday.
Police had already arrested 12 people in the Barking district of east London over the weekend and they said on Monday they had entered two premises in Newham and Barking at 0315 GMT and detained "a number of people". They said searches were ongoing at both addresses.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Abu Dhabi's state-owned Etihad Airways said it will suspend all flights to and from Doha from Tuesday morning until further notice.
The last flight from Abu Dhabi to Doha will depart at 02:45 local time on Tuesday, the airline's spokesman said in an email.
The move came after Saudi Arabia, Egypt, UAE severed ties to Qatar, accusing the wealthy Gulf Arab state of supporting terrorism.
Etihad said their flights on Monday will operate as normal.
TOLUCA, Mexico (Reuters) - Mexico's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) likely won a key state election on Sunday by a slim margin, according to an official preliminary projection of results that was quickly challenged by the leftist party seen in second place.
An early count from the State of Mexico's electoral institute projected PRI candidate Alfredo del Mazo as winning between 32.75 percent and 33.59 percent of the vote.
The candidate of Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador's National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) was seen taking between 30.73 and 31.53 percent.
If the forecast is correct it will have been a close call for President Enrique Pena Nieto's PRI, which has governed the state for nearly nine decades, and will not end the aspirations of Lopez Obrador, a veteran leftist who has led early opinion polls for the July 2018 presidential race.
Lopez Obrador said the rapid count did not "correspond with reality" and that he did not accept it.
The Mexican peso reversed earlier losses and strengthened 0.4 percent after the state's electoral institute announced the preliminary projections.
The State of Mexico is home to one in eight Mexican voters and victory there would provide the combative former mayor of Mexico City with a springboard to the top job.
Victory for Lopez Obrador in 2018 could push Mexico in a more nationalist direction at a time of heightened tensions with the United States, with U.S. President Donald Trump riling Mexicans with threats to tear up the North American Free Trade Agreement and build a border wall against illegal immigrants.
With almost 17 percent of returns in from polling booths, MORENA's Delfina Gomez had 32.4 percent of the vote, an advantage of 1.3 percentage points over del Mazo, but the gap was narrowing as more results came in.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's Petronet LNG said on Monday it did not expect any impact on gas supplies from Qatar after Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain severed ties with the Gulf Arab state accusing it of supporting terrorism.
"I don't think there will be any impact on it. We get gas directly from Qatar by sea," R.K. Garg, head of finance at Petronet, told Reuters when asked to comment on the coordinated move to cut relations.Petronet LNG, India's biggest gas importer, buys 8.5 million tonnes a year of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Qatar under a long-term contract. It also buys additional volumes from Qatar under spot deals.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea is questioning four North Koreans rescued from waters off the east coast and will return them to the North if they want to go back, the South's Unification Ministry said on Monday.
Koreans from the reclusive and impoverished North have occasionally defected to the rich, democratic South by fishing boat, crossing the disputed maritime border between the two sides, but most defections are via China.
The four North Koreans were found on two vessels on Friday and Saturday by the South Korean navy, the ministry said.
"They are currently under investigation and will be asked whether they want to go back to the North," Unification Ministry spokesman Lee Duk-haeng told reporters.
The rescue comes days after South Korea returned six North Korean fishermen rescued from straying fishing boats.
North and South Korea remain in a technical state of war since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty.
The U.N. Security Council on Friday expanded targeted sanctions against North Korea after its repeated missile tests, adopting the first such resolution agreed by the United States and the North's only major ally, China, since U.S. President Donald Trump took office.
The North regularly threatens to destroy the United States and says its missile and nuclear programmes are needed to counter U.S. aggression.
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain needs to have "difficult conversations" with Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states about the funding of Islamist extremism, opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn said on Sunday, resuming his election campaign after a deadly attack in London.
The Labour party leader, who is hoping to win Thursday's  national election, said the vote should go ahead to show democracy would not be halted by the London Bridge attack that left seven dead and 48 injured.
Earlier, Prime Minister Theresa May called for a stronger response to Islamist extremism after three knife-wielding assailants drove a hired van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbed others nearby.
Corbyn said Britain's democratic values must be maintained.
"We must resist Islamophobia and division and turn out on 8 June united in our determination to show our democracy is strong," Corbyn said in the text of a speech due to be delivered in Carlisle, north England.
"And, yes, we do need to have some difficult conversations starting with Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states that have funded and fuelled extremist ideology."
He attacked May for cutting police numbers during her tenure as interior minister and repeated his pledge to recruit 10,000 new police officers, including armed officers.
Opinion polls have shown Corbyn's Labour catching up fast with May's Conservative Party, putting into doubt her gamble that a snap election would boost her majority.
Last month U.S. President Donald Trump urged Arab and Islamic leaders to unite and do their share to defeat Islamist extremists, making an impassioned plea to "drive out" terrorists, while toning down his own harsh rhetoric about Muslims.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin strongly denied he had any compromising material about U.S. President Donald Trump in a sometimes combative televised interview broadcast on Sunday.
"Well, this is just another load of nonsense," Putin said on NBC News' "Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly," when asked whether he had any damaging information on the Republican president.
The remarks were the latest in a series of denials from Moscow that have had little impact so far on a political crisis in the United States over potential links between Russia and Trump's inner circle.
The issue will be front and centre this week in Washington, where former FBI Director James Comey is due to testify on whether Trump tried to get him to back off an investigation into alleged ties between Trump's election campaign and Moscow.
Comey, who was leading the Federal Bureau of Investigation's probe into alleged Russian meddling in last year's U.S. presidential election, was fired by Trump last month, four years into his 10-year term.
Putin also told NBC that regardless of Trump's previous travel to Russia as a businessman, he had had no relationship with him and had never met him. Putin noted that executives from perhaps 100 American companies were currently in Russia.
"Do you think we're gathering compromising information on all of them right now or something?" Putin asked, before saying: "Have you all lost your senses?"
Trump has offered contradictory accounts of his relationship with Putin over time but has also said the two never met. The two have spoken several times by phone since Trump's election.
Trump has called an FBI investigation into alleged ties between his campaign and Russia a "witch hunt" designed to undermine the legitimacy of his 2016 election win.
Trump has also disparaged a dossier of unsubstantiated allegations that purported to show Russian intelligence operatives had compromising information about him, but which he has described as a "hoax."
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded in January that Moscow tried to tilt the election campaign in Trump's favour, including by hacking into the emails of senior Democrats, a charge the Kremlin denies.
"They have been misled," Putin told NBC, in an interview NBC said was recorded on Friday. "And they aren't analysing the information in its entirety. I haven't seen, even once, any direct proof of Russian interference in the (U.S.) presidential election."
Trump has denied any collusion but the FBI and congressional probes into the Russia matter have dogged the early months of his presidency.
Former CIA director John Brennan said last month he had noticed contacts between Trump's campaign associates and Russia during the 2016 election and grew concerned Moscow had sought to lure Americans down "a treasonous path."
After Comey's dismissal, news reports emerged that Trump asked Comey to end the probe into former national security adviser Michael Flynn during a February meeting in the Oval Office, the day after Flynn was fired for misrepresenting his contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergei Kislyak.
Flynn has declined to testify to the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee about his Russian ties, invoking his constitutional right to avoid self-incrimination.
Putin downplayed Flynn's appearance with him at a December 2015 gala dinner in honour of the Russian television network Russia Today (RT), which U.S. officials consider a state-run propaganda outlet.
"I made my speech. Then we talked about some other stuff. And I got up and left. And then afterwards I was told, 'You know there was an American gentleman, he was involved in some things. He used to be in the security services'," Putin said.
"That's it. I didn't even really talk to him. That's the extent of my acquaintance with Mr Flynn," he added.
Reuters has reported that Flynn and Trump's son-in-law and close adviser, Jared Kushner, discussed with Kislyak the idea of creating a back channel between Trump and Putin that could have bypassed diplomats and intelligence agencies.
Putin said he was unaware of any such discussion and criticized NBC for asking about contacts between the ambassador and the Trump administration.
"You created a sensation out of nothing. And out of this sensation, you turned it into a weapon of war against the current (U.S.) president," Putin said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump on Sunday called the London attacks an "evil slaughter" and said the United States would do everything it could in its power to assist the United Kingdom to bring those responsible to justice.
"This bloodshed must end. This bloodshed will end," Trump said in brief remarks after a gala event at Ford's Theater in Washington.
On Saturday night, attackers killed at least seven people by ramming a van into pedestrians on London Bridge and stabbing revellers in nearby bars. Police shot dead the three male assailants in the Borough Market area near London Bridge within eight minutes of receiving the first emergency call.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China has expressed its strong dissatisfaction with what it labelled "irresponsible remarks" on the South China Sea by U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis during a security forum at the weekend.
Mattis accused China of having contempt for other nations' interests and disregarding international law.
He told the annual Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore that the construction and militarisation of artificial islands in the South China Sea undermined regional stability.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China's construction of facilities in the Spratly archipelago in the South China Sea was aimed at improving working conditions for people stationed there, maintaining sovereignty and fulfilling China's international responsibilities.
The sovereign activities undertaken by China had nothing to do with militarisation, Hua said in remarks posted on the ministry's website late on Sunday.
China's claims in the South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes each year, are contested by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam. China and Japan both claim islands in the East China Sea.
Hua said countries around the South China Sea had tried to lower tensions, but others outside the region "have been bent on going against the trend, making repeated erroneous remarks, ignoring the facts and confusing black from white with entirely ulterior motives".
"China is resolutely opposed to this and urges the concerned parties to stop issuing irresponsible remarks and fully respect the efforts of the countries in the region to maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea and play a constructive role in this regard," she said.
Mattis said seeking China's cooperation on North Korea did not mean Washington would not challenge Beijing's activities in the South China Sea.
Last week, a U.S. Navy warship sailed within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island China has built on a disputed reef in the South China Sea, the first such challenge to Beijing since U.S. President Donald Trump took office.
The United States would continue "to fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows, and demonstrate resolve through operational presence in the South China Sea and beyond", Mattis said.
Hua said China had always respected freedom of navigation but opposed shows of military force in the South China Sea in the name of such exercises as threats to China's sovereignty and security.
The China Daily newspaper accused the United States of hypocrisy on Monday.
"U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to pull the U.S.  out of the Paris climate change pact offers the latest example of how the U.S. disregards international agreements to suit its selfish and short-sighted needs," it said.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility for Saturday night's attack in London which killed seven people and wounded dozens, the militant group's agency Amaq said on Sunday.
"A detachment of Islamic State fighters executed yesterday's London attack," a statement posted on Amaq's media page said.
(This story refiles to add dropped word.)
LONDON (Reuters) - British police said on Sunday they would release the names of the three men who killed seven people in London "as soon as operationally possible", adding that searches were continuing in four properties.
The men rammed a van into pedestrians and stabbed revellers on Saturday night before being shot by police. Twelve people were arrested in east London on Sunday in connection with the attack.
Police said that one man had been released without charge, but four men and seven women were still being detained under terrorism legislation.
"The public can expect to see additional police – both armed and unarmed officers - across the capital as you would expect in these circumstances," Mark Rowley, Britain's top counter-terrorism policeman, said in a statement.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel's ambassador to Senegal will return to his post after he was recalled last year following Dakar's support of a U.N. Security Council resolution against Israeli settlements.
The announcement was made after a meeting between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Senegal President Macky Sall on the sidelines of an Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) gathering in Liberia
Netanyahu addressed ECOWAS as a guest speaker on Sunday and met several African leaders, including Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, the president of Mali, a Muslim state with whom Israel has no diplomatic relations.
A statement from Netanyahu's office said Senegal had agreed to support Israel's candidacy to become an observer nation at the Organisation of African Unity.
The two states also agreed to resume joint projects and cooperation in security and agriculture, the statement added.
Senegal, New Zealand, Malaysia and Venezuela, sponsored last December's Security Council resolution demanding Israel end its settlement activity on occupied territory which the Palestinians hope will be part of an eventual independent state.
Netanyahu recalled the envoys to Senegal and New Zealand, Israel has no diplomatic ties with Malaysia and Venezuela.
The resolution passed in the 15-member Security Council because the United States, under the administration of former president Barack Obama, broke with its long-standing approach of diplomatically shielding Israel and did not wield its veto power, instead abstaining.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former FBI Director James Comey will be grilled on whether President Donald Trump tried to get him to back off an investigation into alleged ties between the Trump campaign and Russia, key U.S. senators said on Sunday ahead of Comey's testimony this week on Capitol Hill.
Comey, who was leading the Federal Bureau of Investigation's probe into alleged Russian meddling in last year's U.S. presidential election, was fired by Trump last month, four years into his 10-year term.
The move sparked accusations that Trump dismissed Comey to hinder that investigation and stifle questions about possible collusion between his campaign and Russia.
"I want to know what kind of pressure - appropriate, inappropriate - how many conversations he had with the president about this topic?" Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, told CBS's "Face the Nation" program on Sunday.
The former FBI chief is due to testify on Thursday before the intelligence committee as part of its own Russia-related investigation.
After Comey's dismissal, news reports emerged that Trump asked Comey to end the probe into former national security adviser Michael Flynn during a February meeting in the Oval Office, the day after Flynn was fired for misrepresenting his contacts with the Russian ambassador.
The account, first reported by the New York Times, was based on a memo Comey wrote after the meeting.
The Comey memo caused alarm on Capitol Hill and raised questions about whether Trump tried to interfere with a federal investigation.
"It would be unthinkable if the president actually did what was reported, asked FBI Director Comey to, in effect, back off of at least the investigation into General Flynn," Warner said.
The potential for explosive testimony from Comey that could impact a sitting president makes Thursday's hearing a highly anticipated event, akin to the hearings in the 1970s examining the Watergate scandal, said Linda Peek-Schacht, a political adviser who worked in President Jimmy Carter's White House.
"There are only a few times when Americans come together to watch one thing," said Peek-Schacht, founder of a civics institute at Lipscomb University in Tennessee. "Americans will be watching this."
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded in January that Moscow tried to sway the November vote in Trump's favour. Russia has denied involvement, and Trump has denied any collusion between his campaign and Russia.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said in an interview that  he does not have any relationship with Flynn and only spoke briefly with Flynn when he sat next to him at a 2015 dinner for Russian TV network RT.
"I made my speech. Then we talked about some other stuff. And I got up and left," Putin told NBC News' "Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly" program. "That's it. I didn't even really talk to him. That's the extent of my acquaintance with Mr. Flynn."
Republican Senator Susan Collins, who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she is eager to question Comey to find out more about Trump's allegation that Comey told him on three separate occasions that he was not under investigation.
"We need to hear directly from Mr. Comey on these important issues," Collins told "Face the Nation."
"The tone, the exact words that were spoken and the context are so important and that's what we lack right now and we can only get that by talking to those directly involved," she said.
Trump has called the investigation into alleged ties between his campaign and Russia a "witch hunt" designed to undermine the legitimacy of his electoral win.
After reports that Trump asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein hired former FBI chief Robert Mueller as special counsel to lead the FBI's Russia probe.
GAZA (Reuters) - Scores of former Palestinian prisoners freed by Israel and living in the Gaza Strip said on Sunday their stipends from the Western-backed Palestinian Authority have been suspended in an apparent bid to appease Israel and the United States.
A spokesman for Palestinian prisoners said that 277 freed prisoners in the Gaza Strip, most of whom are aligned with the Islamist Hamas group that runs the coastal enclave, were surprised to find their May stipends had not been paid.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has demanded that the Palestinians, who view prisoners as national heroes, stop paying stipends to them and their families, and U.S. lawmakers have warned that Palestinian funding could be cut off unless Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas halts the practice.
Israel says the payments are a reward and encouragement for the prisoners' actions against it but the Palestinians say they are welfare payments to support them and their families.
Some 6,500 Palestinians are currently being held in Israeli jails, many of whom were convicted of attacks or planning attacks against Israelis.
Zaid Al-Kilani, a former prisoner from Hamas who was serving a life sentence before he was freed in a prisoner swap for Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit in 2011 said:
"Abu Mazen (Abbas) is punishing freed prisoners by suspending the salaries they and their families rely on...We believe the Palestinian Authority has succumbed to American and Israeli pressure," he said.
Palestinian Authority officials were not available for comment but the move may also be an attempt by Abbas to force reconciliation between the Fatah movement, which holds sway in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Hamas, which controls Gaza.
Several attempts at reconciliation, most recently in 2014, have failed to produce a power-sharing government for the West Bank and Gaza.
In April, the Palestinian Authority said it would no longer fund electricity that Israel supplies to the Gaza Strip and it has slashed the salaries of its 60,000 civil servants in Gaza - but not the West Bank - by 30 percent, offering no explanation other than a lack of foreign aid money.
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's government is set to press ahead with a vote to elect a constituent assembly on July 30, an official said on Sunday, prompting the opposition to blast the body as a sham designed to keep embattled President Nicolas Maduro in power.
Adding to tensions in two months of sustained anti-government unrest, a young man who was set on fire last month during a protest died on Sunday.
Beset by near-daily street protests, Maduro in May announced a plan for a "constituent assembly" with powers to rewrite the constitution, in what he says is a bid to bring peace back to the oil-rich nation.
But opponents say Maduro, helped by a compliant Supreme Court and National Electoral Council, is in fact seeking to dodge national elections and ignored protester demands for an end to crushing food and medicine shortages.
"We're going to propose to the National Electoral Council (CNE) for its approval ... the date of July 30," the head of the CNE, Tibisay Lucena, said in a speech transmitted on state television on Sunday.
Lucena celebrated what she said was a surprisingly high number of candidates and high female representation.
There will not be a general election for the assembly, but rather a complex set of local and group-based votes the opposition says favor the ruling Socialist Party. Candidates include current Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez and late leader Hugo Chavez's brother Adan, the president said during his hours-long Sunday TV show.
The opposition has vowed to boycott the constituent assembly, and is instead calling for early presidential elections and respect for the existing congress, which has been led by Maduro critics since early 2016. It called for a "sit-in" along Venezuela's main roads on Monday to protest the decision.
"If Tibisay pushes a date, we push street protests," said opposition lawmaker Freddy Guevara, announcing Monday's demonstration. "This (June 5), 12 hours of resistance! No to the fraud that is this constituent assembly!"
Orlando Figuera, 22, died on Sunday after having been set ablaze during a protest in affluent east Caracas last month, the state prosecutor's office said in a statement, pushing the total deaths in unrest since early April to at least 65.
The government says Figuera was targeted for being "Chavista," or a supporter of late leftist Hugo Chavez, because he had dark skin and looked poor.
But a Reuters witness on site said a group of mostly hooded protesters pursued Figuera, calling him a thief, after he was accused of trying to rob a woman.
Lynchings and mob violence have become more common in violent Venezuela, with many feeling they have to take justice into their own hands due to widespread impunity and crime.
The government, however, says Figuera's death is more evidence that a thuggish opposition is seeking to stoke hate to be able to stage a coup and install a U.S.-backed government.
"Stop it already, for the love of God!" Maduro said in his TV program, which he dedicated in large part to Figuera. "How far will they go?"
The opposition, in turn, says Maduro is manipulating the case and failing to address what they say is widespread repression by heavy-handed security forces. Over 3,000 people have been arrested since the start of protests, with around a third still behind bars, according to rights group Penal Forum.
Some 51 opposition protesters carrying weapons were arrested on Saturday while in a bus going from the opposition-run Chacao municipality to the west of Caracas where they were planning violence, Maduro said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Seven people were killed by militants who drove a van at high speed into pedestrians on London Bridge and then stabbed revellers in the nearby Borough Market area on Saturday.
Britain's third militant attack in as many months took place five days before a national election which British Prime Minister Theresa May said would go ahead on Thursday as planned.
May said the perpetrators were Islamist militants and called for a tougher counter-terrorism strategy. All three attackers were shot dead by police and 48 people were injured.
For the main story on the attack:
The following is what is known so far:
- The attack started at 2158 local time (2058 GMT), Mark Rowley, Britain's top counter-terrorism police officer, said. Three attackers drove a white van at high speed from north to south into pedestrians walking on London Bridge, police said. Rowley said the van had been recently hired by attackers.
A witness told Reuters that at least six people were hit on the bridge.
"It looked like he was aiming for groups of people. I froze because I didn't know what to do," Mark Roberts, a 53-year-old management consultant, told Reuters. "It was horrendous."
Police said they responded to the incident on London Bridge at 2208 (2108 GMT).
- After the incident on the bridge, the three men abandoned the vehicle and attacked people with knives in the nearby Borough Market area on the south side of the Thames, police said.
Witnesses said the attackers stabbed people in the street and in pubs and restaurants in Borough Market.
"Armed response officers then responded very quickly and bravely and confronted the three male suspects who were shot and killed on Borough Market," Rowley said.
"The suspects were wearing what looked like explosive vests but these were later established to be hoaxes."
Rowley said that eight officers fired in the region of 50 bullets at the men, an unprecedented amount for British police, to stop the attackers.
He added that a member of the public also received a non-critical gunshot wound.
One of the attackers was shown in a photograph lying on the ground outside the Wheatsheaf pub.
Another man, also reported to be an attacker, was pictured on the ground a short distance away. Witnesses said they heard gunfire in the area.
- "We believe that the threat that they posed was neutralised in 8 minutes," Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick told reporters.
A Reuters reporter nearby said he heard loud bangs afterwards that may have been controlled explosions.
- The area around London Bridge and Borough Market remains cordoned off.
- Police arrested 12 people on Sunday in the Barking area of east London in connection with the attack. A Reuters photographer saw four women being escorted into the back of police vans. British police also searched an address in nearby East Ham.
The English health authority said that 21 people remained in critical condition.
- At 0025 British time on Sunday the attacks at London Bridge and Borough Market were declared as terrorist incidents.
- Rowley said he was "increasingly confident" that the three individuals who conducted the attack had been killed, but that police were working to establish whether any associates were involved in the planning.
- May said the attacks were inspired by what she called a "single, evil ideology of Islamist extremism" that represented a perversion of Islam and of the truth.
- Britain's "COBRA" emergency response committee, which includes intelligence and security chiefs as well as senior ministers, met on Sunday. Afterwards, May said there was no direct relationship between the London Bridge attack, the suicide bombing at a concert in Manchester that killed 22 people two weeks ago, and another vehicle and knife attack in Westminster in March which killed five people.
She called for a review of counter-terrorism strategy.
"We believe we are experiencing a new trend in the threat we face, as terrorism breeds terrorism, and perpetrators are inspired to attack not only on the basis of carefully-constructed plots after years of planning and training -- and not even as lone attackers radicalised online -- but by copying one another and often using the crudest means of attack," she said.
- Islamic State on Saturday sent out a call on instant messaging service Telegram urging its followers to launch attacks with trucks, knives and guns against "Crusaders" during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
- The United Kingdom is due to hold a national election on June 8.
- Major political parties suspended national campaigning for the June 8 election in the wake of the attack, with the exception of the anti-European United Kingdom Independence Party.
- Saturday's attack came less than two weeks after a suicide bomber Salman Abedi blew himself up at a concert in Manchester on May 22.
Britain raised its terror threat to the highest level of "critical" and deployed troops on the streets on May 23, a day after the Manchester suicide attack. The critical level means another attack could be imminent. It was reduced to "severe", which means an attack is highly likely, on May 27.
On March 22, Khalid Masood ploughed a rented car into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge in London and stabbed a policeman to death before being shot dead. His attack killed five people.
- U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted: "Whatever the United States can do to help out in London and the U.K., we will be there - WE ARE WITH YOU. GOD BLESS!"
- Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said that one of those killed was a Canadian national.
- A separate incident in Vauxhall, two miles away, was not related to the other two incidents, police said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A humiliating state election defeat for Angela Merkel in her own backyard on Sunday and another drubbing that looms in two weeks in Berlin are casting an ominous shadow over the Chancellor's hopes of winning - or even running - for a fourth term in 2017.
Analysts expect Merkel to weather the storm brewing over the debacle in the rural state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern on Sunday, where her Christian Democrats (CDU) fell to a shock third place behind the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) and the upstart anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) party.
But the chancellor, whose towering approval ratings had long carried her party to victories at the polls over the last 11 years, has suddenly turned into a liability amid a frightening fall in support. Conservatives, who feel they have a lock on power after ruling the country for 47 of the last 65 years, are blaming Merkel's pro-refugee stance for their mounting losses.
The AfD latched onto the issue with a vengeance following the arrival of one million refugees in the last year and turned it into a battering ram against Merkel, who made a lonely decision a year ago to open the gates for people fleeing war and turmoil.
"People will see this as the start of the 'Kanzlerdaemmerung' (twilight of the chancellor)," said Gero Neugebauer, political scientist at Berlin's Free University, of the defeat in her home district.
"If a lot of CDU members start seeing this defeat as Merkel's fault, and members of parliament start seeing her as a danger for the party and their own jobs in next year, the whole situation could escalate out of control. If the AfD beats the CDU again in two weeks in Berlin, things could get ugly fast."
Discontent over Merkel's welcoming of refugees has spread even to the rural northeastern corner of the country in a state that has the fewest number of foreigners in Germany. There are only 20,000 refugees there and just 65,004 of the state's 1.6 million residents are foreigners.
A recent poll showed her approval rating fell from 67 percent to a five-year low of 45 percent. Her conservatives would win just 33 percent, down from 41 percent a year ago, according to the Infratest Dimap poll by ARD TV.
That would cost 30 of the 310 MPs their jobs next year.
"The only issue voters care about right now is (Merkel's) irresponsible migrant policies," said Leif-Erik Holm, the leader of the AfD in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. "It's not what people want. I think this is the beginning of the end of Merkel."
It has suddenly become unclear whether Merkel will even get the chance to run for a fourth term. According to a Der Spiegel magazine report, she has postponed an announcement about her candidacy due to resistance from her Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union.
There have been persistent rumours that CSU leader Horst Seehofer is considering running. He has demanded that Merkel put limits on the numbers of refugees. The CSU seized on Sunday's rout as more evidence Merkel needs to change.
"We need a limit on refugees and quicker deportations," said Andreas Scheuer, deputy leader of the CSU, told Der Tagesspiegel daily.
Thomas Jaeger, political scientist at Cologne University, told Reuters that Merkel was down but far from out.
"It's definitely a slap in the face for her and her policies," said Jaeger. "She'll long be blamed for letting a party to the right of the conservatives get an established foothold. But there's no one in the party who'll try to topple her. And if anyone tried, they'd get their teeth knocked out."
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israeli aircraft attacked targets in Syria on Sunday after errant mortar fire from fighting among factions in Syria struck the Golan Heights, the Israeli military said.
There were no casualties from the shellfire.
The area where the shells landed in the Israeli-controlled Golan is close to where fighting in the Syrian civil war is taking place and in retaliation, an aircraft targeted "canons of the Syrian regime," an Israeli military statement said.
Israel has responded similarly in the past when there has been an overspill of fire into the territory.
Israel captured the Golan, a strategic plateau, from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war and annexed it in 1981 in a move that has not won international recognition.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Politics and religion combined on Sunday to halt much of Israel's train service at the start of its working week.
Bowing to demands by ultra-Orthodox partners in the governing coalition, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ordered rail maintenance suspended on Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath - when work is ritually forbidden - and found himself widely blamed for a transportation snarl-up a day later.
With a section of track north of Tel Aviv dismantled for repairs just before the sabbath began on Friday evening, the national railway stopped most services on Sunday so the work could be completed.
That left thousands of commuters, including soldiers heading back to base after weekend leave, scrambling for seats on replacement buses and Netanyahu laying the blame on his transport minister, a rival in his right-wing Likud party. Road traffic was heavier than usual.
It was all, Israeli media commentators said, avoidable and the product of petty politics.
"The Haredim (ultra-Orthodox), as far as Netanyahu is concerned, come before everything else," columnist Ben Caspit wrote in the Maariv newspaper, referring to a desire to keep intact a coalition alliance with religious parties.
Netanyahu's coalition, which includes 13 legislators from  two ultra-Orthodox parties, controls 66 of parliament's 120 seats.
For decades, a delicate balance between modern-day life and religious observance has been maintained by a status quo between Israel's secular majority and a Jewish Orthodox minority.
Under that arrangement there is largely no bus or train service in Jewish cities and villages on Saturdays, but maintenance work has been routinely allowed.
In recent weeks, however, ultra-Orthodox political leaders have faced criticism on Twitter and in religious newspapers over the issue of railway repairs on the Sabbath as pressure mounted on them to challenge the government.
Transport Minister Yisrael Katz had insisted the work continue, but Netanyahu stepped in a week ago to limit its scope and then halt it completely on Saturday.
"Had Netanyahu only put his foot down and pounded on the desk (ultra-Orthodox politicians) would have capitulated ... Things are good for them," popular Israeli commentator Nahum Barnea wrote in the Yedioth Ahronoth daily.
A statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office accused Katz, who has been locked in a power struggle with Netanyahu, of having initiated the crisis with the religious community "in order to damage (Netanyahu's) public image".
Katz has made no public comment. Taking his usual seat next to Netanyahu at the weekly cabinet meeting on Sunday, he was stone-faced as the prime minister admonished him in front of cameras.
"Ministers are appointed to resolve crises, not create them," Netanyahu said.
(The story corrects number of ultra-Orthodox parties in government)
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Democratic vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine on Sunday defended Hillary Clinton against criticism over her handling of classified information as secretary of state, saying she was unaware of the sensitivity of some information she exchanged over email because it had been "improperly labeled."
In July, the Federal Bureau of Investigation rebuked Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, for her use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state from 2009 to 2013, saying she was "extremely careless" in her handling of classified information.
According to records released by the FBI on Friday, Clinton told the bureau's investigators in a July interview that she could not recall getting any briefings on how to handle classified information or comply with laws governing the preservation of federal records.
Kaine, a U.S. senator from Virginia who sits on the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees, told ABC's program "This Week," that the volume of information received by government officials often makes it difficult to know what information has been declared classified.
"There were emails that contained classified information that had been improperly marked. So when she received the email, the material that was classified - which is supposed to be flagged and identified as classified - in many instances was improperly labeled," he said.
"We look at so much material, unless it is specifically pulled out and identified, it is difficult to know sometimes whether a statement or a paragraph is classified or not," Kaine added.
Clinton, who is facing Republican Donald Trump for the White House in the Nov. 8 election, has been dogged for more than a year by the fallout from her decision to use an unauthorized private email account run from the basement of her Chappaqua, New York, home.
She repeatedly said she did not use it to send or receive classified information. The government forbids handling such information outside secure channels.
Contradicting Clinton's comment that she never exchanged classified information over her private email server, the FBI said that at least 81 email threads contained information that was classified at the time, although the agency said the final number may be more than 2,000. While the FBI has scolded Clinton over the handling of classified information, the agency recommended that no criminal charges be filed against her.
Clinton has said that in hindsight she regretted using a private email system while secretary of state. Opinion polls show that voter concerns about Clinton's honesty and trustworthiness are among her biggest vulnerabilities.
A series of surveys show the race has tightened over the past few weeks. In a Reuters/Ipsos poll taken during the week of Aug. 26 to Sept. 1, Trump had the support of 40 percent of likely voters while Clinton had the backing of 39 percent. Clinton's support has dropped steadily in the weekly tracking poll since Aug. 25, eliminating what had been a eight-point lead for her.
TORONTO (Reuters) - Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney on Sunday criticized Donald Trump's potential plan to scrap the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and said the U.S. presidential candidate will likely lose the Nov. 8 election.
Speaking on CTV's "Question Period" politics talk show, Mulroney, who in the 1980s signed a Canada-U.S. free trade deal, said scrapping NAFTA will hurt the United States.
"Millions and millions of jobs in the United States depend directly upon their trade with Canada and Mexico," Mulroney said. "You tear that up - my mother used to say, 'You're cutting off your nose to spite your face.'"
Republican presidential nominee Trump has railed against the NAFTA trade deal with Canada and Mexico as a U.S. job killer, saying that if elected, he would be prepared to scrap it if he could not negotiate much better terms for the United States.
The North American Free Trade Agreement took effect in 1994 during the administration of President Bill Clinton, the husband of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
Trump also has a hardline immigration plan that emphasized deporting illegal immigrants who commit crimes. His proposals include building a wall at the border with Mexico.
Mulroney said that while Trump's rhetoric "carried him through the Republican primaries," he does not think "something that negative carries you to the White House."
Trump's campaign team did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
ISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish-backed rebels on Sunday cleared Islamic State from Turkey's Syrian border, securing a 90 km (55 miles) corridor and marking a substantial gain in Ankara's plan to drive out Sunni militants and stop the advance of Syrian Kurdish fighters.
The rebels, mainly Syrian Arabs and Turkmen fighting under the banner of the Free Syrian Army, took charge of the frontier between Azaz and Jarablus after seizing 20 villages from the Sunni hardline group, the Turkish military said in a statement.
That puts Turkey in firm control of a stretch of land it sees as a bulwark against the U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish YPG militia. However, that could sharpen tensions with the United States over Syria policy.
Turkey is fighting a three-decade-old Kurdish insurgency in its southeast and fears that gains by the Syrian Kurdish YPG will embolden militants at home. Turkey considers the YPG a terrorist organization and an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
"We are there to protect our border, to provide for our citizens safety of life and property, and to ensure Syria's integrity," Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said in a speech on Sunday, discussing the incursion, which Ankara calls Euphrates Shield.
"We will never allow the formation of an artificial state in the north of Syria," he told a crowd in Diyarbakir, the largest city in the mainly Kurdish southeast.
The advance took place little more than a week after Turkey launched the Syrian incursion, deploying tanks and air power to support the rebels, who swept into the border town of Jarablus.
On Saturday, Turkey and its rebel allies opened a new line of attack in northern Syria, rolling across the border some 55 km (34 miles) west of Jarablus.
The United States had said on Saturday it some Islamic State targets in the region, but it did not say where.
While the United States and Europe also regard the PKK as a terrorist group, Washington sees the YPG as a separate entity and an effective client in the fight against Islamic State in Syria. That position has caused friction with Turkey, a NATO member and a partner in anti-IS coalition.
President Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday raised concern about the formation of a "terror corridor" along Turkey's Syrian border.
Speaking to reporters after a meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama at the G20 gathering of world leaders in China, Erdogan said: "It is our wish that a terror corridor not be formed across our southern border".
Erdogan has repeatedly said that Turkey's allies should not be making a distinction between Islamic State and the YPG as both groups pose a threat to Turkey.
Some Kurds have criticized Turkey for its role in Syria. A demonstration broke out along the Syrian border on Friday, where Turkey is building a concrete wall. Police used tear gas and water cannon to drive the protesters back.
At a rally in Istanbul on Sunday, the co-head of Turkey's Kurdish-rooted Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) denounced the incursion into Syria as an "invasion".
"The government, which says it wants to stop ISIS (Islamic State) with the Jarablus invasion, has no credibility. The invasion of Jarablus is totally an adversarial approach against Kurds and we will never accept it," Selahattin Demirtas told reporters.
Separately, Anadolu said Turkish warplanes hit four Islamic State positions on Saturday evening in Syria's northwestern Aleppo province as part of the operation, citing security sources.
The warplanes hit three targets in the al-Kaldi area and another in the Wuguf region, Anadolu said, citing the sources.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A close ally of Donald Trump said talks about the cost of building a wall with Mexico was not supposed to be part of the discussion during Republican presidential candidate's recent meeting with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto.
After the two met in Mexico last Wednesday, Trump told reporters they did not discuss his demand that Mexico pay the cost for construction of a wall on the border between the two countries.
Hours later, however, Pena Nieto said on Twitter he did raise the issue of the cost of the wall.
"At the beginning of the conversation with Donald Trump, I made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall," Pena Nieto said in a tweet.
Speaking on CNN's State of the Union, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who accompanied Trump on the visit and was in the room during the meeting, said ground rules had been set prior to the discussion and advisers to the Republican presidential candidate and Pena Nieto's team had agreed the cost of the wall would not be part of the conversation.
"We were not going to discuss paying for the wall because that's not something we're going to agree about," he said.
Giuliani acknowledged that the subject nonetheless was brought up by Pena Nieto.
"Maybe the president's staff didn't brief him on it, maybe he forgot about it, so he brought it up," Giuliani said. "It wasn't right at the very beginning, it was sort of in the middle and I just briefly said 'that's not on the table.'"
Trump has characterized Mexican immigrants to the U.S. as rapists and drug dealers. In a newspaper article a day after the meeting, Pena Nieto said he made clear to Trump that "in Mexico, we feel offended and hurt by his pronouncements about Mexicans."
Instead of focusing on what they didn't agree on, Giuliani said the "very productive conversation" focused on issues the two countries had in common, such as trade-related issues with China.
"All the same complaints you hear from Donald Trump, President Pena Nieto would say exactly the same thing," he said. "The same kind of dumping, the same kind of violation of a lot of the trade rules and regulations."
BERLIN/OSLO (Reuters) - German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Sunday urged Russia to finalise a ceasefire agreement on Syria with the United States and stressed the urgency of delivering humanitarian aid to people under siege in Aleppo.
"The USA has made its offer. Russia can now show that it is genuinely interested in seeing an end to the fighting in Syria," Steinmeier told FUNKE Mediengruppe, a German newspaper group, in an interview to be published in Monday editions.
"Even Russia cannot have an interest in seeing the fighting continue in Syria. Moscow knows, like everyone else, that there is no military solution for the conflict in Syria," he said.
Steinmeier, a Social Democrat, has frustrated members of his own right-centre ruling coalition by insisting on the need for continued engagement with Russia. He said that ending the fighting in Syria was not solely up to Moscow, but "also other players inside and outside Syria who just want to keep fighting".
Chancellor Angela Merkel also discussed the "catastrophic" humanitarian situation in Syria with Russian President Vladimir Putin during a nearly two-hour meeting on the sidelines of the G20 summit, a German government spokesman said.
Speaking in Oslo on Sunday evening, Steinmeier told reporters that a ceasefire in Aleppo was the prerequisite for the Syrian opposition to agree to return to negotiations.
"This is the only condition under which the opposition ... will be ready to return to Geneva for the political talks," he said.
Steinmeier added his hope that U.S. and Russian officials would make progress on the issue during bilateral meetings on the sidelines of the G20 summit in China.
JUBA (Reuters) - The government of South Sudan agreed on Sunday to accept 4,000 extra peacekeepers in a bid to avoid an arms embargo threatened by the United Nations Security Council, but said the details of the deployment were still being discussed.
The announcement came after a meeting in the South Sudanese capital, Juba, between President Salva Kiir and the U.N. Security Council, led by U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power.
The 15-member council last month authorized the deployment of a 4,000-strong regional protection force as part of the U.N. peacekeeping mission already on the ground, known as UNMISS. It threatened to consider an arms embargo if Kiir's government did not cooperate.
"To improve the security situation the Transitional Government of National Unity gave its consent to the deployment, as part of UNMISS, of the regional protection force," the South Sudanese government and the Security Council said in a joint communique.
The countries contributing troops to the force, UNMISS and the government would "continue to work through the modalities of deployment," the statement said.
East African regional bloc IGAD pushed for a regional protection force and has pledged to provide the troops. South Sudan Minister of Cabinet Affairs, Martin Elia Lomoro, said the government had no objection to who contributes soldiers.
The council authorized the new force following several days of heavy fighting involving tanks and helicopters in Juba in July between troops loyal to Kiir and those backing former Vice President Riek Machar. The violence raised fears of a return to full scale civil war in the world's newest nation.
In the resolution, the council pledged to discuss imposing a possible arms embargo on South Sudan if U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon reports back in mid-September that the government was not cooperating on the force and was obstructing the work of peacekeepers on the ground.
"The Transitional Government of National Unity commits to permit free movement to UNMISS in conformity with its mandate, including to protect civilians," according to the statement on Sunday.
The government and the peacekeeping force will come up with "concrete steps to remove impediments to UNMISS' ability to implement its mandate."
U.N. peacekeepers have been deployed in South Sudan since 2011, when the country gained independence from Sudan.
Political rivalry between Kiir and Machar sparked a civil war in 2013, but while the pair signed a shaky peace deal a year ago, fighting has continued and Machar fled the country after the eruption of violence in July.
"The challenge now is to make sure that a piece of paper becomes operationalized," Power told reporters after meeting Kiir. "Now we have to turn it into steps to improve life for people in great need."
The government and the Security Council agreed "that the humanitarian and security needs of the people were paramount."
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian government forces and their allies recaptured areas in southwestern Aleppo on Sunday that rebels had seized last month and laid siege to the city's opposition-held eastern sector for a second time since July, rebels and monitors said.
The areas recaptured, after weeks of bombardment and attempts to drive the insurgents back, included the government's Ramousah military complex on the city's southwestern outskirts.
Rebels captured the complex last month in an assault that broke through the first government siege of eastern Aleppo.
Zakaria Malahifji of the Fastaqim rebel group confirmed reports that the complex had been retaken by government forces. That place eastern Aleppo under siege, he said.
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and a Damascus military source confirmed east Aleppo had been cut off.
President Bashar al-Assad, who is backed by Russia, Iran and Hezbollah, wants to recapture all of Aleppo, Syria's biggest city before the five-year-old conflict.
Moscow's intervention last year turned the war in Assad's favour in many areas, but rebels have made some gains, including in Aleppo and in Hama province, further south.
Insurgents have launched a campaign to try and capture the town of Maan, north of the city of Hama, the provincial capital, according to Mohammed Rasheed, a spokesman for rebel group Jaish al-Nasr.
Advances by the insurgents in recent days have brought them to within 10 km (six miles) of government-controlled Hama.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey will invest 10 billion lira (2.55 billion pounds) in rebuilding areas in the largely Kurdish southeast that have been damaged by heavy fighting between militants and the state, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Sunday.
Turkey's southeast has been hit by waves of violence following the collapse of a 2-1/2-year ceasefire between the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) and the state last year.
The government has previously estimated some 6,000 buildings have been destroyed in security operations, and put the cost of replacing them at 1 billion lira ($345 million).
"We are investing 10 billion lira," Yildirim said in a speech in Diyarbakir, the region's largest city. "Instead of houses destroyed by the PKK we are building beautiful houses."
He said the government would invest in seven provincial centres across the southeast, and build houses, mosques and hospitals. The government will also focus on rebuilding Diyarbakir's historic Sur district, he said.
Sur's Roman-era walls are listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site. However, the district sustained heavy damage in fighting this year, leading to concern it may be beyond repair.
BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats were beaten into third place by the anti-immigrant and anti-Islam Alternative for Germany (AfD) party in a north-eastern state election on Sunday, TV exit polls showed.
In a stinging defeat for Merkel in her home district that could weaken her chances of a fourth term in next year's federal elections, the upstart AfD took 21.9 percent of the vote behind the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) in their first election in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern by campaigning hard against the chancellor's policies on refugees, according to a projection by ARD TV at 1815 GMT.
"This isn't pretty for us," said Michael Grosse-Broemer, one of Merkel's top deputies in parliament in Berlin in a ZDF TV interview. "Those who voted for the AfD were sending a message of protest."
Merkel's approval rating has plunged to a five-year low of 45 percent, down from 67 percent a year ago, due to spreading disenchantment with her open-door policies on refugees.
According to a Der Spiegel magazine report, Merkel wanted to announce her intention of running for a fourth term this year but put that on hold due to resistance from her Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union. The arch-conservative CSU has demanded that Merkel put limits on the numbers of refugees.
"This was a dark day for Merkel," Thomas Jaeger, a political scientist at Cologne University, told Reuters. "Everyone knows that she lost this election. Her district in parliament is there, she campaigned there, and refugees are her issue."
The election took place exactly a year after Merkel's decision to open Germany's borders to hundreds of thousands of refugees and the discontent in the state was palpable.
"This is a slap in the face for Merkel -- not only in Berlin but also in her home state," said Frauke Petry, co-leader of the AfD. "The voters made a clear statement against Merkel's disastrous immigration policies. This put her in her place."
The AfD's win was cheered by the leader of France's far-right National Front party, Marine Le Pen, who posted on Twitter: "What was impossible yesterday has become possible: the patriots of AfD sweep up the party of Ms Merkel. All my congratulations!”
The SPD, which has ruled the rural state on the Baltic coast with the CDU as junior coalition partners since 2006, won 30.2 percent of the vote, down from 35.6 percent in the last election in 2011. The CDU won 19 percent, down from 23 percent in 2011, and its worst result ever in the state, ARD TV said.
The Left Party won 12.7 percent, down from 18.4 percent five years ago, while the Greens won 4.9 percent, down from 8.7 percent, and fell out of the assembly. The far-right NPD was also knocked out of the state legislature, falling below the 5 percent threshold for the first time since 2006.
Despite losing support, the SPD (26 seats) and the CDU (16) won enough seats to be able to continue their coalition in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, with the AfD as the second-largest bloc in the 71-seat state assembly with 18 seats. The SPD, which could also form a coalition with the Left Party, said it was leaving its options open.
Voters already punished Merkel in three state elections in March, voting in droves for the AfD and rejecting Merkel's Christian Democrats.
Founded in 2013, the AfD now has won seats in nine of the 16 state assemblies across the country. However, it has no chance of governing in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern since the other parties have said they would not form a coalition with the party.
The AfD is also making gains nationwide, a new poll showed on Sunday. If the national election were held next week, the AfD would win 12 percent of the vote, making it the third-largest party in Germany, according to a poll conducted by the Emnid institute for the Bild newspaper and published on Sunday.
Merkel had made a last-minute campaign appearance on Saturday in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, warning against the politics of "angst" offered by AfD with its virulent anti-refugee stance.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's Social Democrats say they will make aid for families a central issue in next year's election if Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives block their proposals for higher children's allowances and subsidies for working parents.
Family minister Manuela Schwesig, a Social Democrat, told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper she was continuing to push for 1 billion euros ($1.1 billion) in subsidies to help working parents cut their hours. The plan is opposed by Merkel's Christian Democrats, the senior partner in the ruling coalition.
Both parties are gearing up for next year's national election in which Merkel, in power since 2005, may seek a fourth term. The chancellor's popularity has dipped to a five-year low over her handling of the refugee crisis, and the right-wing, anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) party was expected to make big gains in a state election on Sunday.
Schwesig said she was also pressing the government to spend about 100 million euros a year more to expand welfare payments to single parents to include children above the age of 12 and eliminate a six-year limit on the money.
That move would benefit 260,000 children, she said, adding that her party favoured steps to crack down on fathers who failed to pay child support, including revoking their driver's licenses.
She said she would submit a legislative proposal before the next election.
The Christian Democrats have blocked those measures as well as increased funding for child-care centres, despite a healthy surplus in government coffers, Schwesig said.
"I will not give up. There is a huge demand," she told the paper. "If they continue to stonewall, the SPD will make this one of their key demands in the national parliamentary elections," she said, adding that Merkel and other key conservatives would then "have to explain why they aren't helping families."
Divisions in the ruling coalition have become more pronounced in recent months amid growing discord over Merkel's open-door refugees policy, Germany's relations with Russia and other issues such as trade.
Germany has sought for years to adopt more family-friendly policies to boost its birth rate, which has edged higher in the past two years due to migration, but remains far lower than the number of deaths each year.
The number of births rose 3.2 percent to 737,630 in 2015,  but that is still way below the 905,675 recorded in 1990 and about half the peak of 1.4 million in 1964.
Schwesig said her proposal would give a subsidy of 150 euros a month for two years to each parent in a two-parent household if both reduced their work hours to 80 percent. The measure would ease child-care burdens and help improve gender equality, she said. Single parents would also get 300 euros a month.
The measure would help parents to continue working after having children, boosting tax revenues and other government revenues, Schwesig said.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - The global economy is being threatened by rising protectionism and risks from highly leveraged financial markets, Chinese President Xi Jinping said at the open of a two-day summit of leaders from G20 nations.
His warning on Sunday followed bilateral talks with Barack Obama that the U.S. president described as "extremely productive", but which failed to bring both sides closer on thornier topics such as tensions in the South China Sea.
With the summit taking place after Britain's vote in June to exit the European Union and before the U.S. presidential election in November, observers expect G20 leaders to mount a defense of free trade and globalization and warn against isolationism.
The global economy has arrived "at a crucial juncture", Xi said, in the face of sluggish demand, volatile financial markets and feeble trade and investment.
"Growth drivers from the previous round of technological progress are gradually fading, while a new round of technological and industrial revolution has yet to gain momentum," he said.
G20 countries are set to agree in a communique at the end of the summit that all policy measures - including monetary, fiscal and structural reforms - should be used to achieve solid and sustainable economic growth, Japanese Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Koichi Hagiuda said.
"Commitment will be made to utilizing all three policy tools of monetary and fiscal policies and structural reforms to achieve solid, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth," Hagiuda told reporters on the sidelines of the summit.
Xi also called on G20 countries to match their words with actions.
"We should turn the G20 group into an action team, instead of a talk shop," he said.
But some of the G20 leaders have begun drawing battle lines in disputes over issues ranging from trade and investment to tax policy and industrial overcapacity.
On Sunday, Xi held talks with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and told him he hoped Australia would continue to provide a fair, transparent and predictable policy environment for foreign investors.
China was angered when Australia blocked the A$10 billion ($7.7 billion) sale of the country's biggest energy grid to Chinese bidders last month.
China has accused Australia of bowing to protectionist sentiment in blocking the bid for Ausgrid, as well as an earlier one by a China-led consortium to buy cattle company Kidman & Co.
Beijing has also criticized Australia, a staunch U.S. ally, for running surveillance flights over disputed islands in the South China Sea.
Meanwhile, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said China must set up a mechanism to address its problem of industrial overcapacity, saying it was "unacceptable" the European steel industry had lost so many jobs in recent years.
"Overcapacity is a global problem but there is a particular Chinese element," he told a news conference.
Britain's future after its departure from the European Union was also subject to discussion.
Obama reassured Prime Minister May that Britain's closest political, commercial and military ally would stand by her.
But he did not shrink away from his stance that Brexit was a mistake and that London would not be able to jump the queue to arrange a bilateral trade deal.
Juncker said that if Britain wanted access to the European Union's common market, it needed to respect the rules of the common market.
Turnbull, meanwhile, said Australia wanted an early free trade agreement with Britain so markets could remain open between them when Britain formally left the European trading bloc.
Obama held talks with Xi on Saturday that ran late into the night.
He urged Beijing to uphold its legal obligations in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, and stressed U.S. commitments to its regional allies.
Xi said China would continue to safeguard its sovereignty and maritime rights in the South China Sea.
But China is keen to keep the summit focused on economic issues and to prevent other disputes from overshadowing it.
According to a "fact sheet" on China-U.S. relations issued on Sunday, the two sides agreed on a range of issues, including avoiding competitive currency devaluations and not limiting deal opportunities for foreign information and communication technology providers.
Obama, now in the last five months of his presidency, is using the visit to put a final stamp on his signature policy shift toward the Pacific, setting the tone for his White House successor, who will be elected in November and take office on Jan. 20.
His visit began chaotically at the Hangzhou airport, where his staff argued with Chinese security over media access. Obama said on Sunday he "wouldn't over-crank the significance" of the airport events.
"None of this detracts from the broader scope of the relationship (with China)," he told a news conference. "The bilateral discussions that we had yesterday were extremely productive and continue to point to big areas of cooperation."
Security was extremely tight in Hangzhou, with parts of the city of 9 million people turned into a virtual ghost town as China seeks to ensure that the G20 summit stays incident-free.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in a televised interview broadcast on Sunday that he was "alright", after he took ill two weeks ago during a national day rally speech.
In his first televised appearance since the incident, Lee told local television Channel 5 that doctors concluded that he had suffered "vasovagal syncope", which is the most common type of fainting.
"I'm alright. Doctors went over me very thoroughly the same night and after that night and they went through all the possible causes on why it could have happened," Lee said.
"For the layman it means 'you stood up and you fainted.' Fortunately it's nothing worse than that and no harm came to me but I had a week's break and I'm back at work," said Lee, who is now in China to attend a summit of leaders from G20 nations.
Vasovagal syncope is usually harmless and requires no treatment.
"I usually have a doctor travel with me when I'm going on working trips. I just have to keep a sustainable pace," he said at the beginning of an interview about upcoming changes to make it easier for minorities to become the president of the multi-ethnic city state.
A key change could be that from time to time the presidential race could be reserved to minorities if needed, he said. The presidential role in Singapore is largely ceremonial, but the president has veto rights over the use of past state reserves and key civil servant appointments.
Lee, 64, has twice survived cancer. He was diagnosed with lymphoma in 1992 but the cancer went into remission after successful chemotherapy. He had his prostate gland removed in February 2015.
LA BAULE, France (Reuters) - Nicolas Sarkozy said on Sunday that party unity was the key to victory for his Les Republicains party in France's 2017 presidential election.
At the same time, though, he mocked a call by Alain Juppe, his main rival, for a code of good conduct in the campaign before the party's November primaries.
"There will be no victory if we are divided," Sarkozy told the party's first gathering after the summer break, in the seaside town of La Baule. "The first rule of these primaries must be that the choice that we make is respected by all. We must all stand behind the winner of these primaries."
On Saturday, the first day of the two-day gathering, Juppe had called for a code of good conduct to ban personal attacks in the increasingly heated campaign.
"I do not like a code of good conduct. I like good conduct," Sarkozy said, drawing laughter and cheers from the audience. "If you need a code, that's because there is already a problem."
Sarkozy, 61, a former president, and Juppe, 71, an ex-prime minister, are by far the two leading candidates for the Nov. 20 and 27 primaries. The winner of those contests will become the candidate of the conservative Les Republicains in the April 2017 presidential election.
The unpopularity of the governing Socialists means the winner of the conservative primaries is likely to make it to the second round of the presidential election, where he is expected to face Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front.
The soft-spoken Juppe has led in opinion polls for months. The more divisive Sarkozy has been dogged by legal issues and by lingering voter distaste for the abrasive style that marked his 2007-2012 presidency.
But Sarkozy closed some of the gap in June as Juppe's campaign lost steam. His ratings improved further after deadly attacks by Islamist militants in Nice and Normandy in July.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand's 88-year-old king, the world's longest reigning monarch, has shown signs of improvement following treatment for a blood infection, the palace said in a statement on Sunday.
King Bhumibol Adulyadej has been treated for various ailments during a year-long hospitalization in the Thai capital.
The king's fever has subsided and the severity of his blood infection has eased, the palace said.
The statement came two days after the palace released a monthly update on the king's health, which said he had water in his lungs and reduced kidney function.
Anxiety over the king's health and an eventual succession has formed the backdrop to more than a decade of bitter political divide in Thailand that has included military takeovers and sometimes violent street demonstrations.
According to the Sunday's statement, an x-ray showed the king still had some water in his lungs and a team of physicians had to administer antibiotics and renal therapy.
News about the royal family is tightly controlled in Thailand, where laws protecting the royals from insult make it a crime to defame, insult or threaten the king, queen, heir to the throne or regent.
KARACHI, Pakistan (Reuters) - An aerial search for two American mountaineers missing in Pakistan was suspended on Sunday, an official said, after an initial flight showed no sign of the men but indicated an avalanche on the peak they were climbing.
The climbers, Kyle Dempster and Scott Adamson, were attempting to summit the 6,960-metre (22,835-feet) Ogre-II peak in the Karakoram mountain range but did not return when expected.
Bad weather prevented an aerial search until Saturday, but the two helicopters that flew up to 7,200 metres found no sign of the men nor any camps, said Karrar Haidri, a spokesman for the Alpine Club
“It seems that a big avalanche had occurred, as they were going very well till August 23, but then it snowed a lot for four, five days,” Haidri told Reuters on Sunday.
“The (helicopter) search was suspended on Sunday, as the family didn’t request for a second-day search,” he said, but added that the rescue mission is still formally under way and other mountaineers are searching via ground.
“The search for the two American climbers can only be called off by their family.”
U.S. media said both men are accomplished climbers, and Dempster had won the prestigious Piolet d’Or alpine climbing award twice.
Pakistan is popular with mountaineers as it rivals Nepal for the number of peaks over 7,000 metres. It also boasts K2, the world's second highest mountain.
During the summer, scores of climbers from all over the world attempt to scale various mountains in its northern region of Gilgit-Baltistan, near the Chinese border.
Dempster and Adamson began their ascent of the north face of Ogre-II peak on Aug. 21. When they did not return as planned 10 days later, the Alpine Club raised the alarm.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel struck an upbeat tone after meeting Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on the sidelines of the G20 summit, and said she expected progress on two thorny issues that have marred German and European ties with Ankara.
Both Germany and the EU, which depend on Ankara to keep a lid on the movement of migrants to the bloc, are trying to ease tensions with Turkey after criticising Erdogan's crackdown on opponents following the failed coup in July.
Merkel said she was hopeful that the European Union and Turkey could resolve their differences over visa-free travel for Turks, but an agreement was likely still several weeks away.
"The discussions with the European Commission are very intensive and are continuing," she said.
Merkel also said she expected a resolution in Germany's dispute with Ankara over visits to an air base in Turkey. She and other German officials have insisted that Ankara must end its ban on German lawmaker visits to 250 German soldiers working at Incirlik Air Base as part of the U.S.-led coalition's air strikes against Islamist State targets.
"I believe it is possible that we will get positive news on the justified demand in the coming days," the German leader told reporters after meeting with Erdogan in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou.
Turkey banned German lawmakers from visiting the base near the Syrian border in June after the parliament passed a resolution declaring the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces a genocide. German lawmakers in turn threatened to end the military mission there.
Turkey accepts many Christian Armenians were killed but contests assertions that up to 1.5 million died, and denies the killings were orchestrated.
Rainer Arnold, defence spokesman for the Social Democrats in parliament, told Reuters earlier he expected Turkey to approve an Oct. 4 visit by lawmakers to the base next week.
The EU worries Turkey applies its anti-terror laws too broadly to go after Erdogan critics and has made easing them a precondition for granting Turks visa-free movement.
Ankara previously threatened to walk away from cooperation on migration should it not get more relaxed travel rules in October, but now appears willing to push the deadline to the end of the year, the Welt am Sonntag newspaper reported. [L1N1BF0CS]
Merkel said she and Erdogan also agreed that the political process aimed at ending the fighting in Syria must be resumed since the situation in Aleppo was unacceptable and a ceasefire was urgently needed.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed bilateral relations with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan before the start of the G20 summit in China, their first meeting since the failed July 15 coup, a German government spokesman said.
Already strained ties worsened after the coup attempt, when Ankara complained that Berlin had not been swift and decisive enough in condemning it.
"(Merkel and Erdogan) discussed German-Turkish relations, further implementation of the EU-Turkey (migrant) agreement and their mutual concerns about the ongoing Syrian civil war," the spokesman said. "The discussion was constructive."
The spokesman did not say whether the two leaders also spoke about Turkey's refusal to allow German lawmakers to visit German troops at Incirlik Air Base.
Turkey has banned the visits to the base near the Syrian border since Germany's parliament passed a resolution in June declaring the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces a genocide, but a German lawmaker on Saturday said he expected the issue to be resolved this week.
Turkey accepts many Christian Armenians were killed but contests assertions that up to 1.5 million died, and denies the killings were orchestrated. I
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Saturday told reporters in Bratislava that Turkey and the EU appeared to be "entering a new phase of talking with each other instead of talking past each other."
Steinmeier had on Friday sought to defuse the dispute over lawmaker visits to the air base by saying the genocide resolution was not legally binding.
Steinmeier also acknowledged that German statements after the failed putsch had perhaps lacked the expected empathy, though he also cautioned Turkey against seeing every critique from Europe as an attack or sign of ignorance.
PARIS (Reuters) - Emmanuel Macron, who resigned from the French government on Tuesday, criticised President Francois Hollande's government in a newspaper interview for not pushing hard enough for reforms.
"I kept trying, proposing, pushing ... If you want to succeed you cannot leave work half done, and unfortunately many things were left half done! The choice was made not to launch a second wave of economic reforms as I was proposing it," he told Le Journal du Dimanche.
Macron, a 38-year old former investment banker tipped as a potential candidate in next year's presidential election, quit his economy minister post on Tuesday to devote himself to the political party he recently set up, saying he needed to be free "to transform France" next year. [nL8N1BB24H].
Macron's place in the government had become increasingly awkward after he repeatedly criticised left-wing totems such as France's 35-hour work week and created his 'En Marche' (Forward) party in April, casting it as leaning neither left nor right.
Macron, however, did not say in the Journal du Dimanche interview if he would make a bid for the French presidency in the 2017 election.
If confirmed, a Macron bid for the presidency would further harm President Francois Hollande's chances of re-election, with polls already suggesting he would be very unlikely to even make it into the run-off round.
A new poll by Odoxa pollsters for Le Parisien/Aujourd'hui en France conducted between Sept 1. and Sept. 2 showed 74 percent of voters thought Macron was right to resign and 45 percent would like him to run in the election against 40 percent in June.
BAMAKO (Reuters) - Mali's President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita has fired Defence Minister Tieman Hubert Coulibaly after suspected Islamist militants briefly seized the village of Boni in the centre of the country on Friday, state television said late on Saturday.
Coulibaly is being replaced by Abdoulaye Idrissa Maiga, a former minister for territorial administration, who was also the president's campaign director at the 2013 election.
The attackers, who are suspected of belonging to the Ansar Dine group, burned public buildings and took an elected local official hostage before withdrawing after a few hours. No one was killed and the army is back in control, witnesses said.
The raid was the latest in a series this year in Mali, reflecting a rise in the power of Islamist groups that have spread a campaign of violence from the north to the centre of the country only a few hundreds miles from the capital Bamako.
Armed groups have proliferated since Islamists took advantage of an ethnic Tuareg uprising in 2012 to seize the north of the desert country.
A French-led intervention drove Islamists back in 2013 but instability has continued and undermines a fragile U.N.-backed peace process.
Islamist militants killed 17 Malian soldiers and wounded 35 when they attacked an army base in the central Malian town of Nampala in July. Ansar Dine and a Peul ethnic militia both claimed responsibility for that attack.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama said on Sunday his talks with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping a day earlier had been "extremely productive" and that the significance of a row between U.S. and Chinese officials at the airport upon his arrival shouldn't be overblown.
"I wouldn't overcrank the significance" of tensions at the airport, Obama told a news conference in the Chinese city of Hangzhou, where global leaders are convening for a G20 summit.
Obama's last scheduled trip to China before leaving office got off to an awkward start soon after Air Force One landed in Hangzhou when a Chinese security official blocked National Security Adviser Susan Rice on the tarmac and yelled at another U.S. official trying to help journalists get closer to Obama.
DHAKA (Reuters) - Police in Bangladesh have arrested another suspect in the killing of a publisher who was hacked to death by Islamist militants last October, the head of the counter-terrorism unit in Dhaka said on Sunday.
Militants have targeted secularist writers in Bangladesh in recent years as the government has cracked down on Islamist groups seeking to turn the South Asian nation of 160 million people into a sharia-based state.
"Another man whom we believe was one of the main prime suspects in killing the publisher was arrested on Saturday," Monirul Islam, chief of the counterterroism cell of the Dhaka police, told reporters.
The victim, Faysal Arefin Dipon, had published books written by Avijit Roy, a U.S. citizen of Bangladeshi origin. Roy was also hacked to death by Islamist militants last year.
On July 1, militants killed 20 hostages, most of them foreigners, in an assault on a cafe in an upmarket area of the capital.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - China's President Xi Jinping said on Sunday at the opening of the G20 summit that risks are accumulating in the global economy from high leverage and that countries should take steps to boost trade and investment and avoid protectionism.
G20 countries should increase policy coordination and balance supply-side reform and demand management, Xi said during his address to other world leaders at the meeting in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish warplanes hit 10 Kurdish militant targets in Turkey's southeast and east overnight, the state-run Anadolu Agency said on Sunday, citing security sources.
The air strikes capped one of the most violent single days of fighting in the largely Kurdish southeast in recent years. The military has said that more than 100 militants from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) were either killed or injured in clashes on Saturday.
Turkey's southeast has been rocked by waves of violence following the collapse last year of a 2-1/2-year ceasefire between the state and the autonomy-seeking PKK.
Fighter jets pounded four PKK targets in the Cukurca district of the southeastern Hakkari province on Saturday evening, Anadolu said, citing the security sources.
Six more positions were bombed in the region between the eastern Agri and Van provinces shortly after midnight, it said.
The PKK is considered a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the United States and the European Union. More than 40,000 people, most of them Kurds, have died since it started its insurgency more than three decades ago.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - China and the United States ratified the Paris agreement to cut climate-warming emissions on Saturday, marking a major step toward the enactment of the pact as early as the end of the year and setting the stage for other countries to follow suit.
The world's two biggest emitters of greenhouse gases made the landmark announcement as heads of state from the Group of 20 biggest economies, or G20, arrived for a summit in the city of Hangzhou, parts of which resembled a ghost town as Chinese security locked down the area.
U.S. President Barack Obama's last scheduled trip to Asia before leaving office however got off to an awkward start. Soon after Air Force One landed, a Chinese security official blocked National Security Adviser Susan Rice on the tarmac, speaking angrily to her before a Secret Service agent stepped between the two.
China has gone to great lengths to try to make the Sept 4-5 G20 summit a success, hoping to cement its standing as a global power, but a range of thorny diplomatic topics could overshadow the agenda.
G20 leaders are likely to renew their promises to use tax and spending policies to invigorate the sluggish world economy, although a new pro-growth push was unlikely.
Overcapacity in the global steel industry, a sore point for China as the world's largest producer of the metal, barriers to foreign investment and the risk of currency devaluations to protect export markets will also figure in the discussions.
Beyond economics, there may be friction over territorial disputes in the South China Sea and a U.S.-South Korea decision to deploy a missile defence system in South Korea to counter missile and nuclear threats from North Korea.
When Obama met Chinese President Xi Jinping, he told him they would have candid talks on cyber, human rights and maritime issues.
Nevertheless, the climate deal set a positive tone..
"Just as I believe the Paris agreement will ultimately prove to be a turning point for our planet, I believe that history will judge today's efforts as pivotal," Obama said after he and Xi handed ratified documents to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
"We have a saying in America that you need to put your money where your mouth is. And when it comes to combating climate change, that's what we're doing. Both the United States and China, we're leading by example."
At a joint ceremony, Xi said it "speaks to the shared ambition and resolve of China and the United States in addressing global issues".
French President Francois Hollande said it was an important step that would pave the way for the implementation of the Paris agreement at the end of the year.
The stakes are high for China to pull off a trouble-free G20 summit, its highest profile event of the year, and security in Hangzhou was intense.
Volunteer security agents prevented journalists from filming in deserted parts of the normally bustling city of 9 million people. Residents left in droves after authorities declared a week-long holiday for the summit, shut down the city's famous West Lake beauty spot and offered free travel vouchers worth up to 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) to encourage people to visit out-of-town attractions.
More than 200 steel mills in surrounding districts were shut as part of a bid to limit pollution.
With the summit wedged in between the Brexit vote and the U.S. presidential election, G20 leaders will be keen to mount a defence of free trade and globalisation.
Concerns about subduded growth will be a major concern.
The world's biggest economies have pulled out the monetary policy stops to promote growth, but central banks are now "pretty close" to the limits of their ability to stimulate economies, said Angel Gurria, head of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
In the absence of "breakthrough, collective" policies, global growth was likely to remain weak, he told Reuters.
"We have left our good central bankers to do all the heavy lifting."
In separate remarks to Reuters, Pascal Saint-Amans, the director of the OECD's Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, addressed the thorny issue of multinational corporate tax liability, which the European Commission's recent decision against Apple Inc (AAPL.O) has brought into sharp relief.
The European Commission said this week that Apple owed up to 13 billion euros ($14.50 billion) in back taxes to Ireland, based on existing regulations, a decision that both Apple and Ireland, which relies on low taxes to attract investment, have vowed to fight.
China is using the G20 to push its diplomatic agenda with a raft of bilateral meetings.
China and Turkey pledged earlier in the day to boost counter-terrorism ties, setting aside previous disagreements over China's treatment of a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe returned home from abroad in a jovial mood on Saturday, poking fun at the latest online media  speculation that he was gravely ill and had sought medical help in Dubai.
Mugabe, 92, came back to the grim reality of rising public anger over an economic meltdown widely blamed on his misrule, with violence erupting a week ago when police fired teargas at opposition leaders and protesters.
Reports that Mugabe's health is declining have become common in recent years, but the veteran politician, in power since independence from Britain in 1980, often refers to himself as "fit as a fiddle".
On Saturday Mugabe poured scorn on rumours on some online news websites - partly fed by his early departure from a regional summit - that he had been rushed for medical treatment in Dubai.
Mugabe told journalists at Harare international airport he had gone to Dubai on a family matter concerning one of his children.
"Yes, I was dead, it's true I was dead. I resurrected as I always do. Once I get back to my country I am real," he quipped.
But Mugabe showed some signs of frailty, walking slowly from the plane and only chatting briefly with officials before being whisked away in a motorcade.
Mugabe rejects the blame for a crisis currently manifesting itself in acute cash shortages and high unemployment, and last week warned protesters there would be no "Arab Spring" in Zimbabwe, referring to the uprisings that toppled several Arab  leaders.
He routinely blames Zimbabwe's economic problems on sabotage by Western opponents of his policies, such as the seizure of white-owned commercial farms for black people.
Last week Mugabe accused Western countries, including the United States, of sponsoring recent anti-government protests.
But even some of his once stalwart supporters, including Zimbabwe's war veterans who invaded white commercial farms in support of Mugabe's land seizures, have turned their backs on him, saying he has "devoured" the values of the liberation struggle.
Zimbabwe, which has also been hit by drought and weak commodity prices, is struggling to pay salaries to soldiers, police and other public workers, fuelling political tensions, including within the ruling ZANU-PF.
Divisions have emerged inside the party as senior officials position themselves for power after the veteran leader is gone, with one faction supporting Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa while another backs first lady Grace Mugabe.
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - China hopes Australia can provide a fair and transparent environment for foreign investors, President Xi Jinping said on Sunday, as he met Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull for the first time since Canberra blocked a major deal.
Australia angered China last month after Turnbull's government stopped the A$10 billion ($7.57 billion) sale of the country's biggest energy grid to Chinese bidders after they failed to overcome security concerns.
After a meeting on the sidelines of a G20 summit in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, Xi said China "hopes the Australian side continues to dedicate itself to providing foreign investors a fair, transparent and predictable policy environment".
"This also accords with Australia's own interests," China's Foreign Ministry quoted Xi as telling Turnbull.
The decision has caused a rift between Australia and its biggest trading partner. China has accused Australia of bowing to protectionist sentiment in blocking the bid for Ausgrid, as well as an earlier one by a China-led consortium to buy cattle company Kidman & Co.
Speaking to reporters later, Turnbull said China understood as well if not better than anyone else that it was Australia's sovereign right to determine who invests there and the terms in which they invest.
"China has more freedom to invest in Australia, indeed all foreigners have more freedom to invest in Australia, than in almost any other country. We have a very open foreign investment policy," Turnbull said.
"So we mostly say yes, we almost invariably say yes, but from time to time we say no and we make no bones about that and China respects that."
He added that the Ausgrid case was not specifically mentioned in the meeting.
Australia, a staunch U.S. ally, has also drawn criticism from China for running surveillance flights over disputed islands in the South China Sea, and supporting U.S. freedom of navigation exercises there.
Xi said China and Australia should respect each other's "choices in their development paths and each other's core interests and major interests", the foreign ministry added.
Turnbull said he discussed the South China Sea with Xi, and the importance of complying with international law.
"We're a good friend of China and good friends are very honest with each other," he added.
"We are consistent and our position is very clear that we expect and encourage all parties to comply with the rule of law, to show restraint and not act in a way that would exacerbate or create tensions."
($1 = 1.3210 Australian dollars)
KABUL (Reuters) - At least 38 people were killed and 28 were injured in Afghanistan after a fuel tanker collided with a passenger bus, causing a massive explosion, local officials said on Sunday.
The incident took place on a major highway connecting the southern province of Kandahar with the capital city of Kabul.
Ghulam Jilani Farahi, deputy police chief of Zabul province where the accident occurred, said authorities could identify only six bodies and the rest were totally burnt.
Farahi said several women and children were among the victims in the bus that was carrying more than 60 people.
The driver of the oil tanker and a co-passenger died immediately after the truck burst into flames during the early morning hours on Sunday.   
The Kabul-Kandahar highway passes through areas prone to militancy and many drivers are known to drive at top speeds in hopes of avoiding insurgent activity.
Afghanistan has some of the world's most dangerous roads, often in dilapidated condition, and traffic rules are seldom enforced.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Turkey is expected to approve an Oct. 4 visit by German lawmakers to the Incirlik military air base next week after the arrival of a new Turkish envoy to Germany, ending a dispute that jeopardised Germany's continued use of the base, a senior lawmaker said.
"I expect that the issue will be resolved next week," said Rainer Arnold, defence spokesman for the Social Democrats in parliament, echoing hopeful but less specific comments made by senior German officials last week.
Lawmakers had threatened to withdraw 250 troops from the base near the Syrian border unless Turkey allowed them to visit.
The news, first reported by the Welt am Sonntag newspaper, comes after efforts by Germany to mend fences with Ankara and a meeting was held on Saturday between the European Union's 28 foreign ministers and a senior Turkish official in Bratislava.
The EU, which depends on Ankara to keep a lid on the movement of migrants to the bloc, is now seeking to ease tensions with Turkey after criticising President Tayyip Erdogan's crackdown on opponents following the failed coup in July.
Turkey had already banned lawmakers from visiting Incirlik in response to a June parliamentary vote declaring the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces a "genocide." Senior officials last week said permission for the lawmaker visits depended on Germany distancing itself from the resolution.
On Friday chief government spokesman Steffen Seibert said the Armenia resolution was not legally binding, although he denied the government was distancing itself from the resolution.
Arnold said permission for the lawmakers' visit was essential for the Bundestag to extend the mandate due to end in December for German troops now stationed at Incirlik along with six Tornado reconnaissance jets and one refuelling plane, in support of the U.S.-led coalition's fight against Islamic State.
NATO also agreed last week to move its Airborne Warning and Control System, or AWACS, surveillance planes to Turkey from the Baltic region.
About 30 percent of the personnel for the planes is provided by Germany. Because the planes will provide information to the U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State, the German parliament must approve any such deployment, Arnold said.
He said he did not expect any significant obstacles to parliamentary approval for the AWACS deployment, as long as Turkey agreed to let parliamentarians visit their troops at Incirlik.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Hillary Clinton, under questioning by federal investigators over whether she had been briefed on how to preserve government records as she was about to leave the State Department, said she had suffered a concussion, was working part-time and could not recall every briefing she received.
Clinton, the Democratic Party's presidential candidate, raised the health scare during her 3-1/2-hour interview with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Justice Department prosecutors on July 2, according to an FBI summary released on Friday.
Besides the 11-page interview summary, the FBI also released other details of its investigation into her use of an unauthorised private email system while running the State Department, in which it concluded she mishandled classified information but not in a way that warranted a criminal prosecution.
Clinton told investigators she could not recall getting any briefings on how to handle classified information or comply with laws governing the preservation of federal records, the summary of her interview shows.
"However, in December of 2012, Clinton suffered a concussion and then around the New Year had a blood clot," the FBI's summary said. "Based on her doctor's advice, she could only work at State for a few hours a day and could not recall every briefing she received."
A Clinton campaign aide said Clinton only referenced her concussion to explain she was not at work but for a few hours a day at that time, not that she did not remember things from that period.
The concussion was widely reported then, and Republicans have since used it to attack the 68-year-old candidate's health in a way her staff have said is unfounded.
The FBI report, which does not quote Clinton directly, is ambiguous about whether it was her concussion that affected her ability to recall briefings.
The FBI declined to provide further comment on the report.
Clinton, who is challenging Republican Donald Trump for the White House in the Nov. 8 election, has been dogged for more than a year by the fallout from her decision to use an unauthorised private email account run from the basement of her Chappaqua, New York, home.
Republicans have repeatedly attacked Clinton over the issue, helping drive opinion polls that show many U.S. voters doubt her trustworthiness.
Trump's campaign issued a statement immediately following the FBI report's release saying the notes from the interview "reinforce her tremendously bad judgment and dishonesty."
Clinton has said that in hindsight she regretted using a private email system while secretary of state.
According to the report, Clinton told the FBI that she did not set up a private email server to sidestep the law requiring her to keep her business communications a matter of public record.
At least one federal judge is examining whether this was the case as part of a lawsuit against the State Department concerning public access to Clinton's government records, which the U.S. government said it had no access to in response to requests from members of the public.
The documents also show that Clinton contacted former Secretary of State Colin Powell in 2009 to ask about his use of a personal BlackBerry phone.
In his reply to Clinton via email, Powell told Clinton to "be very careful" because the work-related emails she sent on her BlackBerry could become public record.
"I got around it all by not saying much and not using systems that captured the data," Powell said, according to the summary.
After her use of a private email system became public knowledge in March 2015, Clinton repeatedly said she did not use it to send or receive classified information. The government forbids handling such information outside secure channels.
The FBI has since concluded Clinton was wrong to say that: At least 81 email threads contained information that was classified at the time, although the final number may be more than 2,000, the report said. Some of the emails appear to include discussion of planned future attacks by unmanned U.S. military drones, the FBI report showed.
"CLINTON believed the classification level of future drone strikes depended on the context," the FBI's interview summary said. The U.S. government requires that military plans be classified.
The FBI released its report on Friday afternoon before the Labor Day holiday weekend, a time many Americans are preparing to travel.
State Department spokesman John Kirby said he would not comment on the FBI's findings because the department "does not have full insight into the FBI's investigation."
He declined to say whether State Department officials still discussed the planning of future attacks using drones in unclassified emails.
"I'm not going to speak to past email practices," he said. "We trust State Department employees to use their best judgment when conveying sensitive information, taking into account a range of factors."
The Clinton campaign released a statement welcoming the report's release.
"While her use of a single email account was clearly a mistake and she has taken responsibility for it, these materials make clear why the Justice Department believed there was no basis to move forward with this case," Brian Fallon, a campaign spokesman, said in a statement.
Some Republicans saw the files as confirming their belief that the Department of Justice should have prosecuted Clinton.
"These documents demonstrate Hillary Clinton's reckless and downright dangerous handling of classified information during her tenure as secretary of state," Paul Ryan, the Republican speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, said in a statement. "This is exactly why I have called for her to be denied access to classified information."
ELBEYLI, Turkey/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Turkey and its rebel allies opened a new line of attack in northern Syria on Saturday, as Turkish tanks rolled across the border and Syrian fighters swept in from the west to take villages held by Islamic State.
The incursion was launched by Turkey from Kilis province - an area frequently targeted by Islamic State rockets - and coincided with a separate push by the Turkish-backed Syrian rebels, who seized several villages further to the east.
By supporting the rebels, mainly Arabs and Turkmen fighting under the loose banner of the Free Syrian Army, Turkey is hoping to drive out Islamic State militants and check the advance of U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters.
The rebels last week took the frontier town of Jarablus with Turkish support. The operation, called Euphrates Shield, is Ankara's first full-scale Syrian incursion since the start of the five-year-old war.
On Saturday the tanks crossed the frontier and entered the Syrian rebel-controlled town of al-Rai to support the new offensive, a rebel spokesman and monitors said.
Al-Rai is about 55 km (34 miles) west of Jarablus, and part of a 90-km corridor near the Turkish border that Ankara says it is clearing of jihadists and protecting from Kurdish militia expansion.
The rebels then seized villages to the east and the south of al-Rai, according to one rebel official.
"They took several villages, about eight villages. At first they took two and withdrew from them, but then reinforcements came and there was an advance," Zakaria Malahifji of the Aleppo-based Fastaqim group told Reuters.
The Turkish-backed operation was putting pressure on Islamic State from both east and west of a stretch of territory it controls along the border between the towns.
"The operations are to work from al-Rai towards the villages that were liberated to the west of Jarablus," Colonel Ahmed Osman of the Sultan Murad rebel group told Reuters.
The Hamza Brigade, also part of the Free Syrian Army, said it had taken control of Arab Ezza, a village about 30 km west of Jarablus and near where Turkish warplanes carried out air strikes on Friday.
FSA factions had also captured the villages of Fursan, Lilawa, Kino and Najma just south of Arab Ezza, according to a source in another rebel group, the Failaq al-Sham.
The United States said it hit Islamic State targets in the region overnight, although it did not say where.
"U.S. forces struck ISIL targets near Turkey's border in Syria last night via newly deployed HIMARS system," Brett McGurk, the special presidential envoy for the coalition fighting Islamic State, said on his Twitter account.
HIMARS refers to a High Mobility Artillery Rocket System. Turkey has struggled to protect the area around Kilis from Islamic State rocket fire. Three rockets fired from northern Syria hit the region on Saturday, Dogan news agency reported, adding there were no casualties.
Turkey's pro-government Daily Sabah newspaper said Turkish air strikes in support of the rebels continued on Saturday.
While Euphrates Shield initially targeted Islamic State in Jarablus, most of the focus since has been on checking the advance of U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters, to the alarm of NATO ally Washington.
Turkey disagrees with its ally's support for the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia, which it considers a terrorist group. The YPG has been among the most effective partners on the ground in the U.S.-led fight against IS.
Turkey is worried that advances by Syrian Kurdish fighters will embolden Kurdish militants in its southeast, where it has been fighting an insurgency for three decades led by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
In China, to attend the G20 meeting of world leaders, President Tayyip Erdogan said there should be no support for any terrorist organization - a reference to the United States' backing of the Syrian Kurdish fighters.
"There is no good terrorist. All terrorists are bad. All organizations involved in terrorism are cursed. This is how we see things and how we put up our struggle," he said, according to a transcript of an interview with China's CCTV released by Erdogan's office.
The United States has voiced concerns about Turkish strikes on Kurdish-aligned groups that Washington supports. Germany said it did not want to see a lasting Turkish presence in an already tangled conflict.
Turkey has said it has no plans to stay in Syria and simply aims to protect its frontier from the militant group and the Kurdish YPG militia.
Turkish security forces used tear gas and water cannon to disperse protesters along the border on Friday. The demonstrators were protesting against Turkey building a concrete wall on the border with Syria.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The canonisation of Mother Teresa of Calcutta on Sunday will be  the culmination of a process - sometimes called "the saint-making machine" - that is long, complex, expensive, opaque and often contentious.
The Catholic Church posthumously confers sainthood on people  considered so holy during their lives that they are now believed to be with God and can intercede with him to perform miracles. Such is the status of the nun acclaimed for her work in the slums of the Indian city now known as Kolkata.
But the path to sainthood is often more bureaucratic than beatific.
Mother Teresa died in 1997 and the late Pope John Paul, who met her often, bent Vatican rules to grant a dispensation allowing the procedure to establish her case for sainthood to be launched two years after her death instead of the usual five.
He had even considered making her a saint immediately but cardinals convinced him that it would set a dangerous precedent for the future, even though in the early Church people were acclaimed saints upon their death.
The current process, known as a "cause", begins at the local level when a diocese believes that someone in their community lived a saintly life. When it is formally open, he or she get the title "Servant of God."
The postulator, in this case Canadian priest Father Brian Kolodiejchuk, sends voluminous documentation to the Vatican, where its Congregation for the Causes of Saints assigns it to a "relator". The relator oversees it, and together with theologians, recommends if it is worthy enough to continue.
If it does, the candidate gets the title "venerable". The next step is beatification. This requires a miracle, which is usually the inexplicable curing of a sick person.
The first miracle attributed to Mother Teresa, and which allowed the Church to beatify her, concerned an Indian woman, Monica Bersa, whose stomach tumour is said to have disappeared after she and others prayed to the nun in 1998, a year after Mother Teresa died.
A medical commission working with the Vatican reviews each case to decide if there is any known medical explanation for the healing.
Critics, such as the late atheist writer Christopher Hitchens, who made a documentary called "Hell's Angel" on Mother Teresa, say the system is flawed. One of the doctors who treated Bersa at the time, Ranjan Mustafi, told Indian media the healing was a result of treatment.
After beatification, which for Mother Teresa was in 2003, a second miracle is required in order for the cause to move on to sainthood.
This involved Brazilian Marcilio Andrino, who the Church says unexpectedly recovered from a severe brain infection in 2008 after his family prayed to Mother Teresa.
The saint-making process has not been immune to corruption and mismanagement, with accusations that the system allowed for favouritism for causes with rich backers.
The conservative Opus Dei group was accused of using its considerable financial clout to push for the canonization of its founder, Father Josemaría Escrivá de Balaguer, who was declared a saint in 2002.
In 2015, a commission looking into Vatican finances found that the Vatican's saint-making office had little or no documentation of funds used by postulators. According to a Vatican source, the Vatican bank in 2014 froze about a million euros in suspect funds held by postulators.
Kolodiejchuk said the cost of Mother Teresa's sainthood cause - gathering documentation, interviewing witness, paying lawyers - came to less than $100,000 - very low compared to the cost of some canonisations in the past.
He said it was covered mostly by a single anonymous donation, that costs were contained because member of the Missionaries of Charity worked for free and that no contributions destined for the poor were diverted
Last year, Pope Francis made key changes to the financial side of saint-making with a decree ordering new controls on its costs and demanding more vigilance and transparency at each stage.
It stipulates that contributions from the faithful and groups must go into an account  managed by an administrator who must "scrupulously respect the intentions" of contributors, keep detailed documentation, and present budgets to a superior.
LIBREVILLE (Reuters) - Tension eased in Gabon's capital on Saturday after days of deadly rioting triggered by an announcement that President Ali Bongo narrowly won re-election in a vote the opposition said was stolen.
More than 1,000 others were arrested in the protests that began on Wednesday and the opposition, led by Jean Ping who claims he is now president, said five people also died.
Shops began to re-open on Saturday and some traffic returned to the streets as the government sought to restore stability with mass arrests and a heavy security presence.
At the same time some impoverished residents of Libreville who need to buy food every day said they hoped for a return to normality given the hardship caused by closed shops and markets.
"The last few days were really difficult for us. The fact that traffic has started to move is very important ... because our families have really suffered," said Alex Ndong, 42, a mechanic who lives in the Lalala suburb of south Libreville.
"I hope everything goes back to normal as quickly as possible," he said.
Bongo came to power in 2009 on the death of his father, Omar, who ruled the Central African country for 42 years, relying on patronage fuelled by oil wealth to buy off dissent.
France has had a military base in Gabon since independence in 1960 and 450 troops are stationed there, according to the French Defence Ministry.
The disputed election sparked the protests but discontent has risen in an economy hit by lower global prices for its crude exports and falling production. Major oil producers include Total and Shell.
Many citizens also say the fruits of oil wealth have been shared too narrowly.
Ping appealed to the American people in an op-ed in the New York Times to send a clear signal to Bongo that they would not tolerate a stolen election.
He also repeated a call also taken up by the European Union for the electoral commission to release results bureau by bureau to make it easier to detect any potential discrepancies.
"The people of Gabon voted for their leader, they chose me. They chose a change from the dynastic regime that has ruled our country since 1967," Ping wrote.
He earlier called for international intervention but there were few signs by Saturday of the kind of decisive external action Ping seeks.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault appealed to all sides in the dispute to use constitutional means and called on the authorities to restore all social media and Internet connections after days of interruptions and cuts.
In several recent African elections the Internet and sometimes cellular phone services have been suspended. Ayrault also welcomed a decision by the African Union to get involved.
The African Union's Peace and Security Council expressed concern over the violence, saying the situation could affect regional stability.
In a statement, the Council "called on all Gabonese stakeholders to demonstrate utmost restraint and make use of all available legal and constitutional channels to resolve any differences pertaining to the results of the elections."
Gabon's law society said on Saturday 800 people were detained in the capital and 300 arrested elsewhere. It called on authorities to respect human rights and treat those who have been detained fairly.
NIAMEY (Reuters) - Suspected militants from the Islamist group Boko Haram rode on camels into a village in southeastern Niger and killed five people, Anfani radio station said on Saturday.
A militia repulsed the overnight raid in the commune of Toumour, about 75 km (47 miles) from the regional capital Diffa. The attackers burned houses and left others wounded, the station said.
Diffa region has been targeted numerous times by suspected militants, who usually come on foot or in vehicles. Boko Haram is headquartered across the border in northeastern Nigeria and seeks to carve out an emirate and impose a strict interpretation of Islamic law.
DHAKA (Reuters) - Bangladesh has hanged a top Islamist party figure for atrocities committed during the 1971 war of independence from Pakistan, the law minister said on Saturday.
Mir Quasem Ali, 63, a key financier of the Jamaat-e-Islami party, was executed at Kashimpur Central Jail on the outskirts of the capital, for murder, confinement, torture and incitement to religious hatred during the war.
Ali was hanged at 10:35 p.m. (1635 GMT), Law Minister Anisul Haq told Reuters, days after Bangladesh's highest court rejected his final appeal against the death sentence.
The execution took place amid a spate of militant attacks in the Muslim-majority nation, the most serious on July 1, when gunmen stormed a cafe in Dhaka's diplomatic quarter and killed 20 hostages, most of them foreigners.
The war crimes tribunal set up by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in 2010 has sparked violence and been criticised by  opposition politicians, who say it is targeting her political foes. The government denies the accusations.
The government has also rejected allegations by human rights groups that the tribunal's proceedings fall short of international standards, and the trials are supported by many Bangladeshis.
Hundreds of people flooded the streets of the capital to cheer the execution.
"We have waited for this day for a long 45 years," said war veteran Akram Hossain. "Justice has finally been done."
Media tycoon Ali is the last of a number of Jamaat leaders to be executed, having been sentenced to death in 2014 by the war crimes tribunal.
Jamaat-e-Islami, which said the charges against Ali were baseless, has called for a half-day strike for Monday in protest. It said Ali had been "hanged unjustifiably as part of the government’s conspiracy to make Jamaat-e-Islami a leaderless party.”
Ali’s family and the party alleged law enforcers abducted his son Mir Ahmed Bin Quasem, a member of his legal defence team, last month. The security forces have said they knew nothing about the matter.
Thousands of extra police and border guards were deployed in Dhaka and other major cities. Previous convictions and executions have triggered violence that has killed about 200 people, most of them Islamist party activists, and police.
Since December 2013 four other prominent Jamaat members, including former leader Motiur Rahman Nizami, and a leader of the main opposition party, have been executed for war crimes.
Official figures show about 3 million people were killed and thousands of women were raped during the war, in which some factions, including the Jamaat-e-Islami, opposed the breakaway.
The party denies its leaders committed any atrocities.
PAWNEE, Okla. (Reuters) - One of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded in Oklahoma rattled the area northwest of Pawnee on Saturday, fuelling growing concern about seismic activity linked to energy production, a federal agency said.
The magnitude 5.6 quake, which was felt from South Dakota to Texas, prompted the closure of some 35 wastewater disposal wells in the area, officials said.
It shallow quake struck 9 miles (14 km) northwest of Pawnee in north-central Oklahoma at 7:02 a.m. CDT (1302 GMT). Its 5.6 magnitude  matched a 2011 earthquake for the biggest on record in the state, the U.S. Geological Survey said.
There were no immediate reports of injuries in Pawnee, where about 25 percent of the residents are Native Americans. Damage in the town appeared to be minor, and the Pawnee Nation declared a state of emergency for its area.
"You heard it before it happened," Pawnee resident Jasha Lyons Echo-Hawk said. "Watching my drawers all shake out and my headboard rattle, it felt like I was watching 'Paranormal Activity.' It felt like I was in a movie."
Pawnee Mayor Brad Sewell said the tremor lasted nearly a minute, far longer than previous ones that lasted only a second or two. Part of the facade of an early 20th-century bank building fell into a downtown street, he said.
The earthquake, which was only 4.1 miles (6.6 km) deep,  could fuel concerns about the environmental impact of oil and gas drilling, which has been blamed for a massive spike in minor to moderate quakes in the region.
Following the tremor, the state Corporation Commission ordered 35 wastewater disposal wells within a 500-square-mile (1,295-square-km) area to shut down, Governor Mary Fallin said via Twitter.
Oklahoma has been recording 2-1/2 earthquakes daily of magnitude 3 or greater, a seismicity rate 600 times greater than before 2008, the Oklahoma Geological Survey (OGS) said.
Oklahoma's economy is heavily dependent on energy production, which accounts for one of every four jobs in the state.
Oklahoma geologists have documented links between increased seismic activity in the state and the injection into the ground of wastewater from oil and gas production, according to a report from a state agency last year.
The drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking," also generates large amounts of wastewater. The OGS report said fracking is responsible for only a small percentage of the total volume of injected wastewater.
Zachary Reeves, a seismologist with the USGS National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colorado, said the agency had received reports of the Oklahoma quake from South Dakota, Wisconsin, Kansas, Missouri, Arkansas and Texas.
DETROIT (Reuters) - Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stepped up his bid to win over minority voters by addressing a largely black church in Detroit on Saturday and calling for a new civil rights agenda to support African-Americans.
As scores of protesters outside chanted "No justice, no peace," Trump said he wanted to make Detroit - a predominantly African-American city which recently emerged from bankruptcy - the economic envy of the world by bringing back companies from abroad.
Trump separately met with about 100 community and church leaders, his campaign said, in his latest push to peel away minority voters from Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.
His outreach to minorities over recent weeks comes as he seeks to improve his chances in the Nov. 8 election and shake off months of offending the sensibilities of black and Hispanic voters with his hard line on immigration and rough-hewn rhetoric.
"I fully understand that the African American community is suffering from discrimination and that there are many wrongs that must still be made right," Trump said at the church which was half-full. "I want to make America prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic envy of the world, and we can do that."
His address of over 10 minutes at the Great Faith Ministries International church received moments of applause, including when he said Christian faith is not the past, but the present and the future.
Accompanying Trump to the church was Ben Carson, the former Republican presidential hopeful who grew up in the city and whose childhood neighborhood Trump visited on Saturday.
Trump has argued that his emphasis on job creation would help minority communities in a way that Democrats have failed to. But Clinton has accused Trump of aligning himself with racists.
Opinion polls show Trump has low support among minorities.
"I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time, one that ensures the rights to a great education, so important, and the right to live in a good-paying job and one that you love to go to every morning," Trump said.
"That can happen. We need to bring our companies back," he added.
Emma Lockridge, 63, said as she entered the church that she found his comments about Mexicans and Muslims "hateful."
"That's my major reservation with Mr. Trump is how he's treated those particular sets of people," said Lockridge, who is retired and an environmental activist.
But she said she also had concerns about Clinton's support in the 1990s for crime legislation signed by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, which many black Americans say contributed to high incarceration rates in their communities.
Vicki Dobbins, an activist protesting outside, said she was disappointed the church asked Trump to speak.
"I believe that Trump coming to Detroit is a joke, and I'm ashamed of the pastor who invited him," she said. "In my opinion, he stabbed everyone in the back."
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian rebels backed by Turkey seized several villages from Islamic State near the town of al-Rai, from where the rebel groups launched a new operation against the jihadists earlier on Saturday, a rebel official said.
"They took several villages, about eight villages. At first they took two and withdrew from them, but then reinforcements came and there was an advance," Zakaria Malahifji of the Aleppo-based Fastaqim group told Reuters.
The areas seized were to the east and south of al-Rai, which is 2 km (1 mile) from the Turkish border.
DAVAO, Philippines (Reuters) - Philippine police blamed Islamic State-linked rebels on Saturday for a bombing that killed 14 people in President Rodrigo Duterte's hometown and dealt a blow to the firebrand leader's bloody crackdown on narcotics and militancy.
Investigators said Abu Sayyaf, a southern Philippine group notorious for acts of piracy, kidnappings and beheadings, had claimed responsibility for Friday's night bombing at a Davao street market, although police said they were still trying to authenticate the claim.
The attack rattled the normally peaceful home city of Duterte, who typically spends his weekends there, some 980 kilometers away from the capital Manila. He was in Davao at the time of the bombing but far from the site of the blast outside a hotel where he often holds meetings.
National police chief Ronald Dela Rosa said the bomb was home-made and fragments of mortar were found at the site, where two "persons of interest" had been caught on camera.
The bomb was likely to have been planted by Abu Sayyaf, he said, to divert the military's attention from its operations to flush them out of their strongholds on the islands of Basilan and Jolo.
The military on Tuesday agreed to deploy a further 2,500 troops to carry out Duterte's order to "destroy" Abu Sayyaf.
"From being offensive, they want us to be defensive," Dela Rosa told a news conference late on Saturday.
Duterte canceled what would have been his first overseas visit on Saturday, to Brunei, and declared a nationwide "state of lawlessness" to deal with what he called an extraordinary security situation.
"I must declare a state of lawless violence in this country," Duterte told reporters after visiting the blast site, where he assured the public that martial law had not been imposed.
"I have this duty to protect this country," he said.
Police and military promised to act in accordance with his "state of lawlessness", although there was some confusion about what that actually entailed. Duterte's office said it referred to a constitutional clause that states the president has full power over the armed forces.
The bombing came as the abrasive former prosecutor wages war on narcotics kingpins and street dealers, Islamist rebels and corrupt bureaucrats, scoring big points in opinion polls but at a risk of making powerful enemies.
Rumors have swirled of a plot to assassinate Duterte, 71, which he has shrugged off as part of his job. The talk has been fueled by his controversial crackdown on drugs that saw him elected by a huge margin, but condemned by human rights groups and the United Nations.
More than 2,000 alleged drug pushers and users have been killed since Duterte's June 30 inauguration. Critics are alarmed at the sheer number whose deaths have been attributed to vigilantes, and the president and police chief's apparent support for it.
Duterte's tough stance on crime has ensured Davao has been spared the kind of violence that has dogged other parts of Mindanao, a large island province where several Islamist militant groups operate, including Abu Sayyaf.
Abu Sayyaf, which means "bearer of the sword", has previously used an Islamic State flag in some of its propaganda videos and runs what is among Asia's most lucrative kidnap rackets.
It has this year decapitated two Canadian hostages and held Norwegian, Indonesian, Malaysian and Japanese citizens.
The group has long been a thorn in the side for the military and has used its ransom earnings to entrench its network and invest in modern weapons, boats and radar technology.
The White House offered condolences and assistance to the Philippines, a key regional ally. Duterte is expected to meet U.S. President Barack Obama in Laos next week, when he attends a the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and East Asia Summits.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Turkish tanks entered the Syrian town of al-Rai near the border on Saturday in support of a new insurgent attack against Islamic State, a rebel spokesman said.
"They (the tanks) entered the attack now," said Mohammed Rasheed of the Jaish al-Nasr rebel group, which operates under the banner of the Free Syrian Army.
The wider offensive against Islamic State along the Syria-Turkey border is being waged by Turkish-backed FSA factions and has been supported by Turkish tanks and warplanes.
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey (Reuters) - Five Turkish soldiers were killed and six more were wounded in clashes with militants from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) on Saturday, security sources said, adding to a recent spike in violence in the southeastern Hakkari province.
The soldiers were guarding a road in Hakkari's Semdinli district when the clashes broke out, the security sources said. An operation was underway to catch the militants, they said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - U.S. forces hit Islamic State targets overnight near Turkey's border with Syria using a newly deployed mobile rocket system, a senior diplomat said on Saturday.
"U.S. forces struck ISIL targets near Turkey's border in Syria last night via newly deployed HIMARS system," Brett McGurk, the special presidential envoy for the coalition to counter Islamic State, said on his official Twitter account.
HIMARS refers to a "High Mobility Artillery Rocket System". It was not immediately clear when the system was deployed at Turkey's border.
Turkey, a member of the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State, opened up a new line of attack in northern Syria on Saturday, as Turkish tanks crossed the frontier from Kilis province, starting a western leg in an operation to sweep militants from its border.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - One railway worker was killed and three people were wounded when a bomb exploded on a train in Thailand's southern town of Pattani on Saturday, police said, a day after peace talks between the Thai government and Muslim separatists.
The bomb was hidden under rail tracks at Khok Pho district of Pattani, damaging the last carriage, Police Captain Promote Juichouy told Reuters.
The blast destroyed half the carriage and blew a big hole under the track, police said.   
The three wounded people included two train workers and a female passenger. The train was heading to Bangkok.
Peace talks between Thailand's government and Muslim separatists ended on Friday with no breakthrough but an agreement to meet again. The insurgents denied responsibility for a string of bombs last month.
A decades-old insurgency in the Muslim-majority southern provinces of Yala, Pattani and Narathiwat has claimed more than 6,500 lives since it escalated in 2004, according to the independent monitoring group Deep South Watch.
As with most such attacks, no one claimed responsibility.
The blast occurred three weeks after a series of explosions hit three of Thailand's most popular tourist resorts and a town in the south, killing four people and wounding dozens. 
HANGZHOU, China (Reuters) - U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said on Saturday he will hold a high-level event in New York to which he will invite country leaders to formally ratify the Paris climate change agreement.
Ban was speaking in the Chinese city of Hangzhou, where the United States and China announced their formal ratification of the deal.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Turkish-backed Syrian rebels seized several villages from Islamic State on Saturday near Turkey's border with Syria, in further advances against the jihadist group, the insurgents and monitors said.
The Hamza Brigade, a group fighting under the banner of the Free Syrian Army, said it had taken control of Arab Ezza, a village near which Turkish warplanes carried out air strikes on Friday.
A source in the Failaq al-Sham rebel group said FSA factions had also captured the villages of Fursan, Lilawa, Kino and Najma just south of Arab Ezza.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group confirmed that the rebels had taken several villages.
Turkey last week launched its first major incursion into Syria since the civil war began five years ago. Its tanks and warplanes are backing rebels who are fighting separately against both Islamic State and the Kurdish YPG militia.
Ankara's offensive has alarmed the West, with Washington saying that action aimed at the YPG, part of a U.S.-backed coalition also fighting against Islamic State, risks undermining the broader goal of ridding Syria of the jihadist group.
Turkish forces and their Syrian rebel allies began the Aug. 24 offensive by seizing Jarablus, a Syrian frontier town, from Islamic State, before turning their sights on what the army said were YPG positions. The YPG denied they were there.
Arab Ezza is about 30 km (20 miles) west of Jarablus.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Turkey-backed Syrian rebels on Saturday launched a new operation against Islamic State near the border which aims to advance eastwards against the jihadists from the town of al-Rai, a rebel commander said.
"The operations are to work from al-Rai towards the villages that were liberated west of Jarablus," Colonel Ahmed Osman of the Sultan Murad rebel group told Reuters, adding the offensive was backed by Turkey.
The offensive would put pressure on Islamic State from both east and west of a stretch of territory it controls along the border between Jarablus and al-Rai.
ALMATY (Reuters) - Islam Karimov, president of Uzbekistan for the past quarter of a century, was buried in his home city of Samarkand on Saturday, leaving behind a power vacuum in a nation that serves as a bulwark against militant Islam in Central Asia.
Karimov, who was 78, died from a stroke. After a funeral rite in Samarkand's ancient Registan square attended by hundreds of men - some of whom were in tears - his body was buried at the city's Shah-i-Zinda cemetery, two attendees told Reuters.
Karimov was derided by Western governments as a dictator who violated human rights, but for many people in Uzbekistan, a mainly Muslim ex-Soviet state which borders Afghanistan, he is the only head of state they have ever known.
With no obvious successor, Karimov's death has triggered an outpouring of grief, mixed with uncertainty about the future.
"I still can't believe it happened," said a 39-year-old resident of the capital, Tashkent, who was among thousands who lined the main thoroughfare early on Saturday to watch the funeral cortege pass by en route to Samarkand.
"I don't know what happens now, I am lost," said the man, who declined to be identified.
How the power vacuum is filled in Uzbekistan is of urgent concern to Russia, the United States and China, all powers with interests in the volatile Central Asia region, where Uzbekistan is the most populous state.
Central Asia analysts say a small circle of senior officials and Karimov family members will have been meeting behind closed doors to try to agree on anointing a new president.
The funeral rites offered clues as to who might be in the running. At the Samarkand ceremony, Prime Minister Shavkat Mirziyoyev, 59, and Finance Minister Rustam Azimov, 57, were allocated spots in the front row, nearest to Karimov's coffin.
If the elite fail to agree among themselves on a transition, the resulting instability could be exploited by Islamist militants who in the past have staged violent attacks in Uzbek cities and want to make Uzbekistan part of an Islamic caliphate.
Karimov jailed, killed or exiled most of the Islamist fighters inside Uzbekistan. Many have since joined the Taliban in Afghanistan and Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, where they have become battle-hardened.
An upsurge in Islamist violence in Uzbekistan would pose a threat to the United States, which is trying to contain the insurgency in Afghanistan, to Russia - home to millions of Uzbek migrant workers - and to China, which worries about Central Asian Islamists making common cause with separatists from its mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority.
Many people had anticipated that Karimov would be succeeded by his older daughter Gulnara, a businesswoman and pop star, but she fell from favor two years ago and there was no sign of her on Saturday among the family members in the funeral cortège.
At Tashkent airport, as the coffin was being loaded onto a plane bound for Samarkand, Karimov's wife, Tatiana, and his younger daughter, Lola Karimova-Tillyaeva, stood at the foot of the aircraft steps. His daughter, dressed all in black, was dabbing her eyes with a white handkerchief.
Karimov's death could unleash a new round of jockeying between Russia, the United States and China, which are all trying to bring Central Asia, with its oil and gas reserves and metal ore, into their sphere of influence.
In a statement offering his condolences, U.S. President Barack Obama said his country stood with Uzbekistan as it "begins a new chapter in its history".
Alexei Pushkov, the pro-Kremlin head of the foreign affairs committee in Russia's parliament, responded on Twitter that Obama was "mistaken if he thinks the new chapter is going to be written in Washington".
The most prominent foreign dignitaries at the funeral were Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, Tajikistan's President Imomali Rakhmon and Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
Karimov was the head of the local Communist party in Uzbekistan when it was still a Soviet republic, and he remained at the helm after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
While other newly-independent Soviet republics were convulsed by wars, economic upheaval and political turmoil, life for people in Uzbekistan stayed largely stable, safe and predictable -- a state of affairs that Karimov's supporters touted as his great achievement.
"The people of Uzbekistan associate the huge achievements of the country since independence with President Karimov's name," a state television anchor, in a black suit and tie, said on Saturday in an elegy that was preceded by somber music.
But the stability came at a cost.
Elections were held but were not democratic, according to international observers. To ensure Uzbekistan could earn foreign currency from exporting cotton, people -- including children -- were press-ganged into going into the fields to help with the harvest, witnesses have told Reuters.
Citing an Islamist threat, Karimov cracked down ruthlessly on anyone deemed to be a religious extremist. Growing a beard or renouncing alcohol was sometimes enough to earn arrest. Rights groups say detainees were tortured.
In the Uzbek city of Andizhan in May 2005, security forces killed around 500 mostly unarmed people who had been protesting against local officials, witnesses and rights groups said. Karimov put the death toll at 169 and said his forces had put down an armed uprising.
Karimov's own family were not immune from the harsh treatment. In a letter smuggled to a BBC journalist in 2014, Gulnara, the older daughter, alleged she was being held under house arrest by her father's security officials after her family ostracized her.
ONITSHA, Nigeria (Reuters) - Gunmen in Nigeria's restive southern Niger Delta region, which has been hit by a series of militant attacks on energy facilities since the start of the year, have kidnapped 14 local oil workers and their driver, police said on Saturday.
Kidnapping for ransom is a common problem in some parts of Nigeria and the southern Delta energy hub has seen an increase in crime since the start of attacks by militants calling for more oil wealth to go to the impoverished region.
The abduction took place on a road connecting the towns of Omoku and Elele, around 50 km (30 miles) from the city of Port Harcourt, Rivers state, in the early hours of Friday as the employees of Nigerian energy company Nestoil travelled to work, police said.
"We have recovered the vehicle they were travelling in before the incident occurred. Police are currently combing bushes around the area in a bid to find and release the victims," said Nnamdi Omoni of Rivers state police.
"I do not think there was a foreigner among those kidnapped. Their abductors have not made any contact and nobody has been arrested yet," added Nnamdi.
A spokesman for Nestoil could not immediately be reached.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece cut back sharply on Friday on the number of television channels operating in the country, awarding just four broadcasting licences to an industry authorities say is mired in mismanagement and corruption.
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's left-led government has said the move will help regulate the sector and is in line with its international bailout obligations. The local industry says, however, the policy will curb free speech and shut down stations, putting thousands of people out of work.
With only four licenses were offered, some of the eight private channels now broadcasting nationwide will have to close.
Athens raised an unexpected 246 million euros ($275 million)from the licence auction. The starting price of the licenses was 3 million euros and the final price ranged between 43.6 and 75.9 million euros, a lot higher than the bidders initially expected.
The bidders will have 15 days to pay the first tranche of the amount, after their wealth and tax declarations are assessed.
Skai TV won the first licence, allowing it to stay on air. But it was critical of the process.
"We were not contesting a licence, we came to negotiate ransom," said Costas Kimbouropoulos, Skai's representative.
The government, elected on promises to take on "the oligarchs", many of who run TV stations, has said the move will help bring order to the sector, which is in debt and generally discredited because of its political links.
Authorities said four channels was an appropriate number of broadcasters which could stay viable, based on advertising industry estimates of the television commercial market worth about 280 million euros annually.
Broadcasters, who have mounted a legal challenge to the process, say the auction was little more than an attempt to gag critics, but they still took part.
Antenna TV and two new entrants, Greek ship owner Evangelos Marinakis and contractor Yannis Kalogritsas, also won a licence after a bidding round held over three days.
Tsipras signed up to a new international bailout in July last year, the country's third since 2010. Keen to convince its lenders that it qualifies for more cash and debt relief, Athens has agreed to a wave of unpopular measures including pension cuts and tax hikes.
On Friday, he said "each euro of the amount" raised would be used to support the vulnerable.
"It sends a message to foreign investors that there are rules in this country... that governments will no longer be playing political games awarding projects," Tsipras said.
Existing operators who failed to secure a licence, among them Star channel and Alpha TV, will have 90 days before going off air, the government said. Mega TV, the first private station which aired in Greece in 1989, did not qualify for the auction  because of outstanding debts.
The government has called the country's media "vampires" living on borrowed funds that they cannot repay.
In a country where up to a fourth of its national output has been wiped out, media, along with a business and a political elite are frequently cited by ruling politicians as being part of an establishment responsible for Greece's current woes.
State Minister Nikos Pappas, who oversaw the auction and is one of Tsipras' closest aides said on Friday that Greece now has  "TV channels which will inform Greek people objectively ... not depending on their owners' links to the political leadership."
Opposition parties have accused the government of launching the auction to bring in new business players, more friendly to a party that swept to power for the first time last year and may have less influence over the state mechanism and private sector.
"The government wants to control information ... and secondly it wants to create a system of corruption that can be controlled," said Anna-Michele Asimakopoulou, a lawmaker with the conservative New Democracy party on Tuesday.
($1 = 0.8947 euros)
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey, which patched up strained ties with Israel and Russia, aims to normalise relations with Egypt and even rebuild ties in future with Syria, where it has launched a cross-border offensive, the prime minister said on Friday.
"God willing, there will be normalisation with Egypt and Syria," Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told a televised briefing with ministers. "Turkey has started a serious attempt to normalise ties with Egypt and Syria."
He did not give a timeline for restoring ties with either of the Arab nations. Any improvement would mark a further shift in its regional foreign policy that has shown of signs of increasing pragmatism, analysts say.
Turkey has long called for President Bashar al-Assad to quit as part of a political solution in its conflict-torn neighbour, but has recently been less vocal about the need for him to leave immediately, concerned more by the prospect of Syria's division and the potential creation of a Kurdish enclave on its border.
Ties with Egypt have been strained since the Egyptian army, under President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, ousted the elected Muslim Brotherhood President Mohamed Mursi following mass protests. Turkey built close ties with Egypt's first Islamist president.
Turkey's decision to rebuild Israeli ties, strained over the Palestinian issue, and Russian relations, broken over Turkey's shooting down of a Russian warplane over Syria, signalled a more pragmatic approach in Turkish foreign policy, analysts say.
ANKARA (Reuters) - The outlawed Kurdish militant PKK has squandered the opportunity for a political peace process with Turkey by continuing its insurgency against Ankara, Turkey's prime minister said on Friday.
The autonomy-seeking Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) has launched a spate of attacks since a ceasefire broke down last year, returning to arms in its three-decades-long insurgency in southeast Turkey.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told a televised briefing with ministers that security forces had contained the threat from Kurdish militants in urban areas of the southeast and were still pursuing them in rural regions.
He said the government has spent 10 billion lira (2.56 billion pounds) on the fighting the militants, without giving a time frame. He also said any mayors found backing militants would be removed.
МOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe are unlikely to advance significantly in talks over resolving the Kurile islands dispute at their meeting on Friday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
"It's hardly worth expecting any breakthroughs as a result of today's meeting," he said.
(Reuters) - Uzbekistan's President Islam Karimov, an authoritarian ruler who has warned of a militant Islamist threat to the whole Central Asian region, has died after suffering a brain haemorrhage, three diplomatic sources said on Friday.
Karimov has run the ex-Soviet republic of 32 million - the region's most populous - with an iron grip for 27 years and speculation is rife over who will succeed him.
Below are some of the key figures who analysts say may play a crucial role in deciding who runs post-Karimov Uzbekistan.
* A 59-year-old former regional governor has been prime minister since 2003 and is personally in charge of agriculture, a key sector of the economy. Many Central Asia experts see him as a possible successor to Karimov.
* As prime minister, Mirziyoyev has been a pliant  subordinate of Karimov and at the beginning was seen as a transitory figure who would not be in his post for long. With time, Karimov has learned to respect him as a talented manager.
* Opposition media reports say that in dealings with his own subordinates, Mirziyoyev can fly into a temper and will resort to swearing and curses to make his point.
* A fluent English speaker who headed a local bank at the age of 33, the 57-year-old finance minister is seen as relatively liberal-minded and competent.
* A government member since the late 1990s and always linked to the finance portfolio, Azimov has been a key figure leading uneasy talks with international financial institutions critical of Uzbekistan's slow market reforms and heavy state interference in the economy.
* Analysts say Azimov is a much stronger politician than Mirziyoyev and is likely to be better equipped to deal with the outside world.
But a key question is likely to be who can secure the backing of the security services and the army.
* The 72-year-old has run the powerful SNB security service for 21 years and is widely seen as Uzbekistan's main kingmaker.
* He was a key figure in suppressing an uprising in the eastern Uzbek city of Andizhan in 2005 when 187 protesters were killed, according to official information.
* Inoyatov's influence spreads far beyond the SNB and he is actually in control of the army and police, many of whose senior officers also come from his feared secret service.
* "His word will be the final one in deciding who will lead Uzbekistan after Karimov," said Uzbek journalist Alexei Volosevich, adding that Inoyatov had not displayed any presidential ambitions himself.
* His support has been particularly crucial for the political fortunes of Mirziyoyev, Central Asia expert Arkady Dubnov told independent news agency www.fergananews.com.
* Karimov's younger daughter is also expected to have a say in deciding who will succeed her father, analysts say.
* The influence of Uzbekistan's 38-year-old ambassador to Paris-based UNESCO has risen in the past couple of years after Lola's elder sister Gulnara - an outspoken and extravagant socialite and fashion designer - was reported to have fallen out with her father and was placed under house arrest.
* In a rare contact with mass media, Lola said in a written reply to questions from the BBC in 2013 that she had no political ambitions and declined to say who she thought could succeed her father. She also said at the time that she had not been on speaking terms with her sister for more than 12 years.
* Little is known about Lola's husband. She said in the BBC interview that Tillyaev was "a businessman who has never taken part in Uzbekistan's political life". She said he was a shareholder in a trade and transport company and owned a small chain of shops in Geneva.
* Sources in Tashkent told Reuters that Tillyaev's transport company supplies goods from China to the largest wholesale market in Tashkent, the Uzbek capital.
* The couple and their children moved to Switzerland after selling almost all of their property in Uzbekistan, Lola said in the 2013 interview.
* Deliberately distancing themselves from Uzbek politics, Lola said her husband "had never been linked to the cotton business, or oil and gas, or any other national natural resources".
PARIS (Reuters) - Islamic State's military pullback in Iraq and Syria increases the risk of Islamist attacks in France like the ones the country suffered this year and last, France's anti-terrorism prosecutor Francois Molins was quoted saying on Friday.
"We see clearly in the history of terrorism that when terrorist organisations are in difficulty on their own turf they look for an opportunity to attack abroad," he said in an interview with Le Monde newspaper, adding that the military pressure IS faces could result in more French jihadis and their families returning home.
Many of those involved in deadly attacks in France since last year were French born.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Hundreds of civilians in the Damascus suburb of Mouadamiya began to leave the rebel-held area on Friday in what the government described as an amnesty, part of its efforts to force insurgent pockets around big cities to surrender.
The move took place a week after the surrender of neighbouring besieged Daraya, one of the longest-standing bastions of the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad and only a few kilometres (miles) southwest of the Syrian capital.
The United Nations and aid organisations have criticised the evacuation of Daraya and other besieged areas, which were not agreed under its supervision, as setting an alarming precedent for the forced resettlement of civilians after an army siege.
Syrian state television showed footage of families heaving luggage through the streets and buses arriving to take them from the district. They will be transported to a temporary housing area in Harjaleh near Damascus, it reported.
The 303 people leaving on Friday are civilians who had already been displaced from Daraya, said Mohammed Naim Rajab, a local official in Mouadamiya. The remaining Daraya refugees will depart during the next week or 10 days, he added.
Rajab said that an agreement between the government and the rebels in Mouadamiya would be implemented after that. He gave no further details.
After the surrender of Daraya a week ago, some of its thousands of residents moved to the Harjaleh housing facility, while those who wished to remain in rebel-held areas, along with fighters, were taken by bus to rebel-held northwestern Syria.
Conditions in Mouadamiya had been less harsh than in Daraya since it agreed on a limited local truce with the government in late 2013, allowing aid to enter the suburb in return for a halt to combat.
Syrian National Reconciliation Minister Ali Haidar was quoted on state television this week as saying such pockets of rebel territory could no longer be permitted to exist.
"Daraya is a domino and after that others will fall," he said, adding that such areas could not "remain isolated cantons that pose a threat to the state".
Rebels still hold a large swathe of Eastern Ghouta, the district of farms and towns that stretches northeast from the capital and has been a stronghold of the opposition since Syria's uprising began in 2011.
The civil war has killed more than 250,000 people, displaced 11 million - about half of Syria's pre-conflict population, caused a refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe, drawn in regional and global powers and contributed to rising Islamist militant attacks across the world.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities have so far released 33,838 prisoners, the justice minister said on Friday, after Turkey said it was releasing 38,000 inmates from prisons to make space for tens of thousands detained over suspected links to a July coup attempt.
Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag made the comments in a news conference. Turkey has said it would release a total of 38,000 prisoners as part of its penal reforms in the wake of the July coup that tried to topple President Tayyip Erdogan's government.
Turkey has dismissed about 80,000 people from public posts, and many have also been detained in the post-coup round-up.
BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel told the parliamentary leader of her conservative party that she is not distancing herself from a  Bundestag resolution on the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces that has strained ties with Turkey, according to sources briefed on the matter.
Volker Kauder, the head of the Christian Democrats in parliament, told a meeting of party members that he had spoken with Merkel and she emphasised her position, said the sources, who attended the meeting.
Kauder said Merkel also noted that she had voted to support the resolution during a party meeting before the vote, although she was not present when the vote took place in June. Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel and Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier were also not present, the sources said.
GAZIANTEP, Turkey (Reuters) - As U.S.-led coalition jets from a Turkish air base began to pound Islamic State targets in Syria in the summer of 2015, Ilhami Bali passed on what appeared to be an order from the militant group's leadership in Raqqa: unleash war on Turkey.
Bali, identified by Turkish prosecutors as the most senior Islamic State figure in Turkey, asked a fellow militant in the border city of Gaziantep to draw up a list of potential targets. Cash, suicide bombers and equipment would be sent from Syria, he said.
"Turkey has waged war on us ... so we're waging war back," the Turkish national wrote in an email from Syria, according to documents prepared by Ankara prosecutors and reviewed by Reuters. "I asked who should we hit and they say it does not matter; be it PKK (Kurdish militants), be it Turkish soldiers, be it tourist spots. Whatever you have planned."
The email was sent to Yunus Durmaz, who prosecutors say co-founded Islamic State's Gaziantep cell along with Bali. Durmaz provided a long list of possible targets, including NATO Patriot missile batteries, foreign missions, U.N. offices and a popular nightclub in the Mediterranean resort of Antalya.
Documents that form part of a judicial investigation into the cell, which Turkish prosecutors say carried out at least two major bombings last year, give a rare insight into the genesis and operations of the wider Islamic State network in Turkey.
Islamic State has grown increasingly active in Turkey, according to the government which blames it for seven suicide bombings across the country over the past year, though the group has not claimed responsibility for the attacks.
The prosecution documents show how suspected members of the Gaziantep cell set up safe houses to accommodate fighters, facilitated the passage of some to Syria, rented depots to store weapons and ammunition, paid salaries, kept records of expenses and made bombs and suicide vests with components purchased inside Turkey.
Having a strong presence in Turkey has been crucial to Islamic State's Middle Eastern battle plans and their attempts to strike at the West, as they use the NATO country as a transit route for fighters and equipment.
Hundreds of Turks have been recruited to fight in Syria, while weapons experts say Turkey has become the most important source for components to make improvised bombs used by Islamic State forces.
Turkey has also been used as the gateway between the group's territory, in Iraq and Syria, and Europe - where it has carried out attacks in countries including France and Belgium. The country is also traditionally a popular destination for Western tourists, who have been struck in at least two of the Turkish bombings blamed on Islamic State earlier this year.
The documents regarding the Gaziantep cell were prepared by prosecutors based on suspects' testimonies, email exchanges, security camera footage and digital evidence collected during police raids.
An official at Ankara's main courthouse verified the documents were genuine. The Ankara prosecutors' office could not be reached for comment on the cell or the investigation.
    Turkey, initially seen by Western allies as a reluctant partner in the fight against Islamic State, stepped up its campaign in July 2015 by opening by its Incirlik air base to the U.S.-led coalition, making bombing raids on the group's positions in northern Syria easier and more frequent.
The country then became a primary target.
    "The planes are hitting us here more," Bali wrote to his fellow Turkish national Durmaz in the email last summer. "I know you have a tough job, but console the hearts of devout Muslims. Hit them ... so we can be happy."
The Turkish attacks blamed on Islamic State have been a factor in Turkey's decision to send troops and tanks into northern Syria for the first time last month in an attempt to drive back the group from its border.
    Bali and Durmaz's Turkish cell carried out at least two major bombings, the prosecution documents say: one in July 2015 in the southeastern town of Suruc, where 35 mostly Kurdish activists were killed, and a twin suicide attack in Ankara last October, when more than 100 people died.
Durmaz was also the mastermind of two more attacks carried out earlier this year, Gaziantep governor's office said in a statement on Thursday.
The two men, helped by a core of around a dozen accomplices, trained at least 150 fighters for attacks across Turkey, according to the documents. Their cell ran at least two safe houses and four depots in Gaziantep.
The group bought at least 1.5 tonnes of ammonium nitrate - a chemical used in agriculture but also to make bombs. Police have also seized hand grenades, machine guns, ammunition and bombmaking components such as fuses, ball bearings and explosives in raids on the cell since last October.
    "Data points to Turkish Islamic State members manufacturing explosives inside Turkey, including the vests used in at least three, but perhaps more, attacks inside Turkey since 2015," said Aaron Stein, a Turkey specialist at the Atlantic Council, a Washington-based international affairs think-tank.
    "The vests are far better constructed than the ones used by Islamic State in France and Belgium. These guys are far better trained in bombmaking."
    A February report by the UK-based Conflict Armament Research said Turkey was a hub for acquiring bomb-making components which can then be shipped to Syria and Iraq.
    "Turkey is the most important choke point for components used in the manufacture of improvised explosive devices by Islamic State forces," it said.
The seven suicide bombings blamed on Islamic State in Turkey since July 2015 have killed more than 250 people. But the group has not claimed responsibility for any of them.
    This may be a deliberate strategy, experts say, by a group which has boasted about bombings elsewhere in the world.
"They are connected with Raqqa," said a senior security official who declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter. "The bombings are a result of instructions from their leaders."
    "But they see Turkey as a recruitment area and they don't want to openly say they are targeting a Muslim society. Leaving it as a question works better than spelling it out."
Such considerations may also explain why the targets in Turkey have largely been Kurdish interests or foreign tourists.
Suspected cell member Yakub Sahin said in testimony to prosecutors that he was told that rallies in Suruc and Ankara were targeted because they were members there of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), an outlawed group fighting the Turkish state for Kurdish autonomy.
"They are all enemies of God," Durmaz is said to have told Sahin when he expressed doubt over the killing of civilians.
The PKK is closely linked to Kurdish militia fighters in Syria fighting Islamic State. The Suruc and Ankara rallies were both attended by largely civilian pro-Kurdish activists.
It is unclear when the Gaziantep cell was founded, but police began monitoring some members in 2012. Some suspects were detained last year and at least eight have fled to Syria, according to media reports and a police source.
Durmaz himself was killed in May when he detonated a suicide vest he was wearing during a police raid on a Gaziantep safe house. Bali's whereabouts are unknown.
The Gaziantep governor's office declined to comment on the investigation into the cell.
Prosecutors, who launched the investigation after the Ankara bombing last October, say the cell used safe houses to accommodate fighters - both those smuggled into Turkey from Syria, and others en route to Syria to fight for Islamic State.
Hundreds of Turkish citizens are thought to have traveled to fight in Syria over the past four years.
In 2012-2014, many joined Islamist groups including Jabhat al-Nusra fighting against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad - who Turkey wants to see ousted. Some later shifted to Islamic State after the group proclaimed its caliphate in 2014.
Turkish officials say at least 700 Turks have joined Islamic State, but some diplomats say the number could be more than 10 times that.
"There was no secret," said one resident in the sleepy border town of Elbeyli, adjacent to Islamic State-held territory, describing vehicles regularly crossing the border at night. He declined to be named for fear of retribution.
"Some people made a fortune out of this and there is still demand. Unless you wipe out its roots, it will not end."
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE (Reuters) - Barack Obama starts his last trip to Asia on Saturday as U.S. president, aiming to put a final stamp on his signature policy shift toward the Pacific but distracted by crises ranging from Brexit to the battle against Islamic State.
With the clock ticking down on his presidency, Obama will attend a G20 summit in China, a visit that will underscore the challenges he has faced with a rising world power that is both an economic partner and strategic rival.
His final meetings in the region with Chinese President Xi Jinping could set the tone for his White House successor, who will be elected in November and take office in January.
Obama will seek to highlight his legacy of stronger ties with Southeast Asia, particularly during the first-ever U.S. presidential visit to Laos, and his success in elevating the issue of climate change on the world stage.
But there will be few bright spots in talks with fellow world leaders, who are grappling with the sagging global economy, fallout from Britain's vote to leave the European Union, increasing suspicion of globalisation, the fight against Islamic State militants and territorial disputes in East Asia.
During his past nine trips to Asia, Obama has sometimes been distracted by other international developments from the emphasis he sought to place on boosting U.S. military and economic ties to the fast-growing region, leading critics to doubt whether the U.S. commitment will last.
The latest visit coincides with the race to succeed Obama in the Nov. 8 presidential election, where Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, his former secretary of state and co-architect of his Asia strategy, has opposed his Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, raising concerns among the 12 nations in the pact.
Republican nominee Donald Trump has alarmed allies like Japan and South Korea by suggesting they should pay more for their security and even develop their own nuclear weapons to protect against the threat posed by North Korea.
Derek Chollet, a former defense adviser to Obama, said one of the challenges the United States faces is reassuring  governments in Asia that the United States means what it says when it comes to rebalancing towards the region.
"Asia partners are suspicious that even if we really mean it, that we're easily sidetracked," said Chollet, author of "The Long Game," a book about Obama's foreign policy.
Obama will start his visit on Saturday with China's Xi. The leaders have forged cooperation on combating climate change and curbing Iran's nuclear drive but have failed to narrow their countries' main differences.
Irritants include U.S. accusations of Chinese cyber hacking, disputes over trade and Beijing's pursuit of contested claims in the South China Sea.
Michael Green, a top Asia adviser to former Republican President George W. Bush, said he did not expect the Obama-Xi meeting to yield much. "No grand joint declaration as we saw early in the administration, no celebration - perhaps some agreements on climate change - but a pretty rough and scratchy relationship," Green said.
Obama faces another tricky meeting when he holds talks with NATO ally Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, with relations strained over strategy on Syria's civil war and concerns about Erdogan's crackdown on opponents after July's failed coup.
White House aides have left open the prospect of an informal encounter with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which whom Obama is sharply at odds over Syria and Ukraine.
China will closely watch Obama's first meeting with brash new Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, slated for Tuesday at an East Asia summit in Laos. In July, the Philippines, with U.S. backing, won a challenge against China's South China Sea claims at an international arbitration court.
Despite the longtime U.S.-Philippines alliance, Duterte recently insulted the U.S. ambassador, calling him a "gay son of a whore." Evan Medeiros, Obama's former top Asia adviser, said such comments plus Duterte's skepticism about the U.S. relationship meant that trust needed to be rebuilt.
The White House has said Obama will not pull his punches over human rights concerns, which include thousands of extra-judicial killings since Duterte took office two months ago, according to date released this week.
Strains with Duterte could add to Obama's difficulties in forging a united front on the South China Sea with Southeast Asian partners.
China may see an opportunity to "drive a wedge" between the United States and Philippines as Beijing seeks a bilateral arrangement with Manila over the South China Sea, Medeiros said.
Western diplomats in Beijing, however, said the Chinese government had its own difficulties reading Duterte.
"He seems to change his mind every 24 hours," said one senior Western envoy, referring to Duterte's China policy.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China is developing a new long-range bomber, the head of the Chinese air force was quoted as saying in state media on Friday, the latest move in its ambitious military modernisation programme.
China has already improved its ability to strike at targets far from home and there will be further improvements in the future, the Global Times quoted air force chief Ma Xiaotian as saying at an air force open day.
"We are now developing a new generation of long-range bomber, and you'll see it in the future," Ma said, according to the paper, without elaborating.
China has been ramping up research into advanced new military equipment, including submarines, aircraft carriers and anti-satellite missiles. This has rattled nerves regionally and in Washington as China takes a more muscular approach to territorial disputes in places such as the South China Sea.
The air force, which has for years relied on large numbers of Chinese copies of Russian aircraft, is now also developing its own stealth fighters. In July, it put into service a new, domestically developed large transport aircraft.
Ma said the air force had entered into a "transformation" stage, changing its focus from quantity to quality, the report said.
CARACAS (Reuters) - Opponents of President Nicolas Maduro flooded Venezuela's capital on Thursday in one of the biggest mass protests against socialist rule for more than a decade.
Dressed in white and chanting "this government will fall," hundreds of thousands rallied across Caracas to demand a recall referendum against Maduro and decry a deep economic crisis in the South American OPEC nation.
The opposition Democratic Unity coalition estimated at least 1 million people took part after protesters streamed into Caracas from the Amazon jungle to the western Andes.
"We are going to bring down Maduro!" said Naty Gutierrez, 53, whose 75-mile (120 km) drive from Maracay into Caracas took three times longer than usual due to soldiers' roadblocks.
"We are going to defeat hunger, crime, inflation and corruption. They've done nothing in 17 years. Their time is finished," she said, surrounded by thousands of people waving banners and national flags at one gathering point. The government, which mounted its own, smaller counter-protest, did not give numbers for the turnout.
The opposition hoped its protests would prove they are the majority and heap pressure on Maduro and the national election board to allow a plebiscite on his rule, as allowed by the constitution half-way through a presidential term.
But with the election board dragging its feet over the process and the government swearing the referendum will not happen this year, the opposition has no way to force it no matter how many people it brings onto the streets.
The timing is all-important because if a plebiscite were held in 2017 and Maduro lost, his handpicked vice president would take over for the ruling Socialist Party, rather than triggering a new presidential election.
In power since Hugo Chavez's presidency from 1999, the socialists have hit a low ebb as falling oil prices and a failing state-led economy have left the country in turmoil.
Triple-digit inflation, a third year of recession, shortages of basics, and long lines at shops have exasperated many of Venezuela's 30 million people. The frustration led to a resounding opposition win in a December legislative vote.
Maduro, 53, denounced what the opposition had billed as the "Takeover of Caracas" as a front for coup plans, akin to a short-lived 2002 putsch against his mentor Chavez, who died of cancer three years ago. Maduro has failed to replicate his charismatic predecessor's popular appeal, and his ratings in opinion polls have halved to just over 20 percent.
"We have stopped the coup today, the violent, fascist ambush," Maduro told supporters, saying detentions of activists in recent days had prevented violence. At least a dozen opposition campaigners were still in custody on Thursday, according to rights groups and the opposition.
Extra police and troops were positioned around Caracas, and there were roadblocks on most major routes into the capital from the provinces, with buses being blocked and traffic crawling.
"All they are interested in is staying in power," said construction worker Luis Palacios, 59, from the poor Caracas neighbourhood of Petare. "We want change, we are hungry."
After the main events had finished peacefully, a small group of youths, many covering their faces, hurled stones and petrol bombs at security forces who fired back teargas during a standoff on a highway in Caracas.
The opposition Democratic Unity coalition said the youths  were infiltrators trying to sow trouble.
Fearing violence, especially given 43 deaths around anti-Maduro protests in 2014, many businesses in the capital had stayed closed. Dozens of indigenous people marched hundreds of miles from their home state of Amazonas.
Swearing loyalty to Chavez's legacy and calling opposition leaders a wealthy elite intent on controlling Venezuela's oil, thousands of red-shirted government supporters also gathered for counter-rallies.
"The opposition want to topple the president, but they won't be able to," said lawyer and civil servant Adriana Jimenez, 44, at one such rally close to a huge inflatable puppet of Chavez in downtown Caracas.
Like other "Chavista" loyalists, she blamed Venezuela's ailing economy on an "economic war" by businessmen hiking prices and hoarding goods.
Maduro joined his supporters in the afternoon, singing on stage and pumping his fist in the air.
The opposition called a nationwide protest of banging pots and pans for mid-evening, and announced a timetable for further rallies in coming weeks.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Melania Trump, the wife of U.S. Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, sued the Maryland-based publisher of the Daily Mail Online and a blogger on Thursday over stories about her past she believes were "tremendously damaging," her attorney said in a statement.
Late Thursday, the Daily Mail retracted a story in a posting on its website.
"To the extent that anything in the Daily Mail's article was interpreted as stating or suggesting that Mrs. Trump worked as an 'escort' or in the 'sex business'... is hereby retracted, and the Daily Mail newspaper regrets any such misinterpretation.
A Daily Mail story last month cited a Slovenian magazine's report that a modeling agency that Trump worked with in New York in the 1990s also served as an escort business, linking wealthy clients with women for sexual services.
Trump had notified the British newspaper and other news organizations on Aug. 22 that she would take legal action, Trump's attorney, Charles Harder, said in an email at the time, calling the reports "outright lying."
"These defendants made several statements about Mrs. Trump that are 100% false and tremendously damaging to her personal and professional reputation," he said in a statement on Thursday. The lawsuit was filed in state circuit court in Montgomery County, Maryland.
The lawsuit alleges that the Maryland blogger, Webster Griffin Tarpley, published "false and defamatory statements" about Trump, including that the former model had suffered from "a full-blown nervous breakdown."
"Defendants’ actions are so egregious, malicious and harmful to Mrs. Trump that her damages are estimated at $150 million dollars," her lawyer's statement said.
Tarpley said in a statement that the lawsuit is "without merit."
"We are confident that Mrs. Trump will not be able to meet her high burden of proving the statements published about her on my website were defamatory in any way," he said.
Trump, who now has her own jewelry line, was born in Slovenia and moved to the United States in the 1990s. She married Donald Trump, the Republican presidential nominee for the Nov. 8 election, in 2005.
WELLINGTON (Reuters) - People living in coastal areas of New Zealand closest to a huge earthquake that struck offshore early on Friday were temporarily ordered to evacuate due to fears of a tsunami.
The magnitude 7.1 quake struck at 4:37 a.m. (1637 GMT) at a depth of 55 km (34 miles), 130 km north-east of Te Araroa, off the North Island, according to government earthquake detection service Geonet.
People in and around the town of Gisborne, the largest populated area nearest the epicentre, were told to get to higher ground or go as far inland as they could in case the shock caused a freak wave.
The evacuation order and tsunami warning were lifted a few hours later.
Authorities in Gisborne said people could return home but were "strongly advised" to stay off the beaches.
People in North Island reported on Twitter being woken by shaking and local media said there were some power outages.
While the area continued to be hit by aftershocks of magnitude 5 and above, Tairawhiti Civil Defence Emergency Management controller John Clarke said if people feel another long and strong earthquake they should again head for higher ground or as far inland as possible.
The U.S. National Tsunami Warning Centre and the Chilean Navy said there was no danger of a tsunami on the Pacific coasts of the Americas.
Ahead of the stock market opening, traders did not expect the quake to have an impact.
"The market reaction to the news of the 7.1 magnitude earthquake was very muted as it appears there has been no reported damage or tsunami," said Stuart Ive of OM Financial Ltd.
PARIS (Reuters) - More than 12 million French children went back to school under heightened security on Thursday after a summer vacation marked by further deadly attacks in a country that is one of the prime targets of Islamic State militants.
Armed police patrolled outside schools around the country as children, parents and teachers converged at entrance gates.
Eight months from elections, the government is under pressure to reassure a wary population of 65 million haunted by the July truck attack in Nice that killed 86 as well as the killing of a priest.
    At the Bernard Palissy primary school in Joinville-le-Pont east of Paris, extra security measures included a blanket ban on  parents entering school buildings and the presence of local police at opening time.
"The difference is we can unfortunately no longer access the school," said Faiza Teaboui, whose young son was going to school for the first time.
"But I tell myself that it is a very positive thing because it means no unknown adult can get in. You never know, security is very important for the town and our children above all. It's important to feel reassured."
Olivier Dosne, mayor of Joinville-le-Pont, said a budget of 100,000 euros ($111,000) had been allocated to improve school security.
   Some of that funded installation of one-way glass at school entrances to prevent outsiders peering in. More was being spent on evacuation and crisis-containment training for school staff in line with nationwide guidelines.
    "They will have more equipment such as whistles, walkie-talkies, intercoms," Dosne said.
Another directive to school directors is that they arrange training in first-aid and life-saving drills for pupils and staff, as well as training in how to respond under attack - such as hiding and staying silent.
The spate of killings over the past few months took place despite emergency rule imposed after attacks last November in which Islamist militants killed 130 people in and near Paris.
That attack stunned the country, already on edge after Islamist militants in January 2015 killed 17 people, most of them at the offices of the Charlie Hebdo satirical newspaper and a kosher supermarket.
The Islamic State group, whose strongholds in Syria and Iraq are being bombed by French jets, has called on its followers to attack in France, notably its secular state schools.
NEW DELHI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Reports of human trafficking in India increased by 25 percent in 2015 compared to the previous year, with more than 40 percent of cases involving children being bought, sold and exploited as modern day slaves, government crime data showed.
The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) said there were 6,877 cases related to human trafficking last year against 5,466 in 2014, with the highest number of cases reported in the northeast state of Assam, followed by the eastern state of West Bengal.
The data released on Tuesday showed 43 percent of the 9,127 victims were below the age of 18. Crimes included inducing a minor girl with intent of sexual intercourse, buying or selling a minor girl for prostitution, and keeping a person as a slave.
Activists attributed the rise in reported cases to greater public awareness as well as increased police training, resulting in better enforcement of anti-human trafficking laws.
However they said the real number of cases could be much higher because many victims, especially those from poor, rural backgrounds, remain unaware of the crime.
"We all know the numbers are very high and we expect the numbers to increase over the years," said Supreme Court lawyer Ravi Kant and founder of Shakti Vahini, a Delhi-based anti-human trafficking charity.
"Increased cases means that law enforcement agencies are now treating the issue of human trafficking seriously."
South Asia, with India at its centre, is one of the fastest-growing regions for human trafficking in the world.
Gangs sell thousands of victims into bonded labour every year or hire them out to exploitative bosses. Many women and girls are sold into brothels.
India, alone is home to 40 percent of the world's estimated 45.8 million slaves, according to a 2016 global slavery index published by the Australia-based Walk Free Foundation.
New Delhi police on Tuesday arrested a couple and charged them with trafficking and organised criminal activity, accusing them of trafficking hundreds of young women and girls over many  years and selling them to brothels in Delhi's red-light area.
Police said the man, 50, and his wife, 45, had lured the victims, from poor regions such as West Bengal, Jharkhand and Assam as well as neighbouring Nepal, with the promise of good jobs before selling them to brothels for 100,000 rupees each ($1,500).
The NCRB data showed there were 19,717 cases related to human trafficking awaiting trial in 2015, of which 15,144 were cases from the previous year.
Only 2,075 trials were completed -- resulting in 1,251 acquittals and 824 convictions. Over 17,600 cases were still pending trial at the end of 2015, the figures showed.
Activists say although the government response to human trafficking has improved in recent years, justice and support still eludes many victims, especially children.
India has far too few courts, judges and prosecutors for its 1.3 billion people and there is a backlog of million of cases pending before the courts.
The government has introduced an online platform to find missing children, signed bilateral anti-human trafficking pacts with nations such as Bangladesh and Bahrain and authorities are now working with charities to train law enforcement officers.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government also plans to unveil India's first comprehensive law on human trafficking.
The Trafficking of Persons Bill, which aims to unify existing laws, prioritise survivors' needs and provide for special courts to expedite cases is expected to be brought before parliament for approval by the end of the year.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A Romanian hacker nicknamed "Guccifer" who helped expose the existence of a private email domain Hillary Clinton used when she was U.S. secretary of state was sentenced on Thursday to 52 months in prison by a federal court in Alexandria, Virginia.
Marcel Lazar, 44, who used the alias online, had pleaded guilty in May to charges including unauthorized access to a protected computer and aggravated identity theft after being extradited from Romania.
Lazar's public defender, Shannon Quill, was not immediately available for comment.
Lazar has said in interviews he breached Clinton's private server at her home in Chappaqua, New York, but law enforcement and national security officials say that claim is meritless.
Lazar is believed to have hacked into email accounts of about 100 victims between 2012 and 2014.
They include prominent political figures such as former Secretary of State Colin Powell, a relative of former President George W. Bush and Sidney Blumenthal, a former Clinton White House aide and an unofficial adviser to Clinton. Clinton is now the Democratic nominee for president.
Lazar leaked online memos Blumenthal sent Clinton that were addressed to her private email account, which was used during her time as secretary of state to conduct both personal and work business in lieu of a government account.
Clinton's email arrangement, which became the subject of an FBI investigation, has drawn intense scrutiny from Republicans attempting to sow doubt about her honesty ahead of the Nov. 8 presidential election.
An entity calling itself "Guccifer 2.0" and claiming to be a Romanian hacker emerged in June and began taking credit for data breaches at the Democratic National Committee and Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
U.S. intelligence officials and cyber security experts believe Guccifer 2.0 is a front for Russian intelligence services intended to spread confusion about the hacks against the Democratic Party.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States and its negotiating partners agreed "in secret" to allow Iran to evade some restrictions in last year's landmark nuclear agreement in order to meet the deadline for it to start getting relief from economic sanctions, according to a think tank report published on Thursday.
The report, which was released by the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, is based on information provided by several officials of governments involved in the negotiations. The group's president David Albright, a former U.N. weapons inspector and co-author of the report, declined to identify the officials, and Reuters could not independently verify the report's assertions.
"The exemptions or loopholes are happening in secret, and it appears that they favor Iran," Albright said.
(Link to the report: here)
The report ignited a chorus of Republican criticism, including from the campaign of presidential nominee Donald Trump. His campaign sought to link the findings to Trump's Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, who was secretary of state when secret talks were held with Iran but had left office before formal negotiations began.
"The deeply flawed nuclear deal Hillary Clinton secretly spearheaded with Iran looks worse and worse by the day," said a statement issued by retired Army General Michael Flynn, a top Trump adviser. "It’s now clear President Obama gave away the store to secure a weak agreement that is full of loopholes."
The Clinton campaign did not immediately comment on the report.
The White House said it took "significant exception" to some of the report's findings, saying that the easing of sanctions was always dependent upon Iran's adherence to the agreement.
"The implementation date was driven by the ability of the (International Atomic Energy Agency) to verify that Iran had completed the steps that they promised to take," White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters at a briefing on Thursday.
"That is what precipitated implementation day. Since then Iran has been in compliance with the agreement," Earnest said.
Among the exemptions outlined in the think tank's report were two that allowed Iran to exceed the deal's limits on how much low-enriched uranium (LEU) it can keep in its nuclear facilities, the report said. LEU can be purified into highly enriched, weapons-grade uranium.
The exemptions, the report said, were approved by the joint commission the deal created to oversee implementation of the accord. The commission is comprised of the United States and its negotiating partners -- called the P5+1 -- and Iran.
One senior "knowledgeable" official was cited by the report as saying that if the joint commission had not acted to create these exemptions, some of Iran’s nuclear facilities would not have been in compliance with the deal by Jan. 16, the deadline for the beginning of the lifting of sanctions.
The U.S. administration has said that the world powers that negotiated the accord -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany -- made no secret arrangements.
A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the joint commission and its role were "not secret." The official did not address the report's assertions of exemptions.
State Department spokesman John Kirby said that Iran was not granted "exceptions" to limits on low-enriched uranium or heavy water "that would allow them to have a usable amount of material in excess of what they're supposed to have towards the production of fissile material."
He repeatedly declined to directly address the report's findings on the exemptions, saying the joint commission's work is "confidential."
Diplomats at the United Nations for the other P5+1 countries did not respond to Reuters' requests for comment on the report. Iranian officials were not immediately available for comment.
Albright said the exceptions risked setting precedents that Iran could use to seek additional waivers.
Albright served as an inspector with the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) team that investigated former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's nuclear weapons program.
While Albright has neither endorsed nor denounced the overall agreement, he has expressed concern over what he considers potential flaws in the nuclear deal, including the expiration of key limitations on Iran's nuclear work in 10-15 years.
The administration of President Barack Obama informed Congress of the exemptions on Jan. 16, said the report. Albright said the exemptions, which have not been made public, were detailed in confidential documents sent to Capitol Hill that day -- after the exemptions had already been granted.
The White House official said the administration had briefed Congress "frequently and comprehensively" on the joint commission's work.
Democratic Senator Robert Menendez, a leading critic of the Iran deal and a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told Reuters in an email: "I was not aware nor did I receive any briefing (on the exemptions).”
As part of the concessions that allowed Iran to exceed uranium limits, the joint commission agreed to exempt unknown quantities of 3.5 percent LEU contained in liquid, solid and sludge wastes stored at Iranian nuclear facilities, according to the report. The agreement restricts Iran to stockpiling only 300 kg of 3.5 percent LEU.
    The commission approved a second exemption for an unknown quantity of near 20 percent LEU in "lab contaminant" that was determined to be unrecoverable, the report said. The nuclear agreement requires Iran to fabricate all such LEU into research reactor fuel.
If the total amount of excess LEU Iran possesses is unknown, it is impossible to know how much weapons-grade uranium it could yield, experts said.
The draft report said the joint commission also agreed to allow Iran to keep operating 19 radiation containment chambers larger than the accord set. These so-called "hot cells" are used for handling radioactive material but can be "misused for secret, mostly small-scale plutonium separation efforts," said the report. Plutonium is another nuclear weapons fuel.
The deal allowed Iran to meet a 130-tonne limit on heavy water produced at its Arak facility by selling its excess stock on the open market. But with no buyer available, the joint commission helped Tehran meet the sanctions relief deadline by allowing it to send 50 tonnes of the material -- which can be used in nuclear weapons production -- to Oman, where it was stored under Iranian control, the report said.
The shipment to Oman of the heavy water that can be used in nuclear weapons production has already been reported. Albright's report made the new assertion that the joint committee had approved this concession.
WILMINGTON, Ohio/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Some of Donald Trump's Hispanic backers distanced themselves from the Republican nominee on Thursday for standing by a hardline approach to illegal immigration in a key speech after indicating for weeks that he may soften his approach.
Trump tried to clarify confusion about immigration, his signature policy issue, in a speech on Wednesday. He said the only way undocumented foreigners could live in the United States legally if he is elected on Nov. 8 would be to leave the country and apply for re-entry.
But the businessman, trailing Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in opinion polls, did back away from earlier promises to deport immediately the 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally and said he would prioritize those with criminal records.
While polls show a large majority of Hispanic voters oppose Trump, the withdrawal of support from among his small group of Latino backers underscores how difficult it is for Trump to broaden his support with minorities and moderate voters.
Alfonso Aguilar, who recently organized a support letter on behalf of Trump, said he felt "disappointed and misled" by the fiery speech and withdrew his backing.
"For the last two months he said he was not going to deport people without criminal records. He actually said that he was going to treat undocumented immigrants without criminal records in a humane and compassionate way," Aguilar told CNN. He is the president of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles group.
Trump used his Wednesday appearance in Phoenix to clarify his stance on illegal immigration. But instead of moderating his message as many expected, Trump returned to the hardline rhetoric that powered him to victory in the Republican presidential nomination race over 16 rivals, heartening conservatives drawn to Trump by the issue.
Some members of a council Trump formed last month to advise him on Hispanic issues expressed reservations about or cut ties to the New York real estate developer's candidacy after the Phoenix speech.
Jacob Monty, a Texas attorney and member of the group, said he was withdrawing his support and would not vote in the election.
"There was nothing pro-business in that speech," Monty told MSNBC. "We were hoping for some glimmer of the Donald Trump that we met with a week and half ago, but it never came."
Panel member Ramiro Pena, a Baptist pastor in Texas who spoke at the Republican National Convention in July, wrote in an email to party leaders that he believed Trump would lose the election and that the advisory panel was a "scam."
But other Latino advisers, including Florida pastor Mario Bramnick and Kentucky State Senator Ralph Alvardo, said they would continue working with the Trump campaign.
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus downplayed the fallout from Trump's speech, telling CNN that the nominee made clear he first wants to build the border wall and deal with criminal elements, then have a "humane conversation" about other illegal immigrants.
"Somehow or another no one is talking about that piece," Priebus said.
At a campaign rally on Thursday in Wilmington, Ohio, Trump said his immigration plan would treat everyone with "dignity, respect and compassion" but prioritize compassion for American citizens and include some kind of ideological screening.
"We only want to admit those into our country who share our values and love our people," Trump said.
Trump gave his Phoenix address, which was flagged as a major policy speech, just hours after he met with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto in Mexico City.
At a joint press conference after the meeting, Trump said the pair discussed his campaign promise to build a border wall but not which country would pay for it. Pena Nieto said on Twitter on Wednesday night he had "made it clear" Mexico would not be paying for the wall.
Trump supporters at the Wilmington rally said they approved of the candidate's immigration policies but moderate Republicans in Arizona, where Latinos make up more than 30 percent of the population, told Reuters they were less swayed by his message.
Clinton's campaign called Trump's immigration speech a "disaster" and said it would begin running advertisements in Arizona, a sign it sees a chance of winning a state that has long backed Republican presidential candidates.
Clinton raised about $143 million in August for her presidential bid and the Democratic Party, her campaign announced. Trump has not yet released his fundraising totals for the month of August.
MOSCOW/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Companies building a multi-billion dollar bridge to link the Russian mainland with annexed Crimea, a project close to the heart President Vladimir Putin, were targeted by the United States in an updated sanctions blacklist on Thursday.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury added dozens of people and companies to the list, first introduced after Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and expanded over its support for separatist rebels in the east of the country.
As well as multiple subsidiaries of Russian gas giant Gazprom (GAZP.MM) and 11 Crimean officials, the Treasury named seven companies directly involved in the construction of the 19 km (11.8 miles) road-and-rail connection across the Kerch Strait, dubbed "Putin's bridge" by some Russians.
Chief among those were SGM-Most, a subsidiary of lead contractor Stroygazmontazh which is already under U.S. sanctions, and sub-contractor Mostotrest (MSTT.MM), one of Russia's biggest bridge builders.
"Treasury stands with our partners in condemning Russia's violation of international law, and we will continue to sanction those who threaten Ukraine's peace, security and sovereignty," said John Smith, acting director of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which levies sanctions.
The Russian Foreign Ministry was not immediately available for comment, but Moscow has previously said sanctions levied over its actions in Ukraine undermine efforts to resolve the conflict.
Set to be the longest dual-purpose span in Europe when completed, the Kremlin sees its 212-billion rouble ($3.2 billion) bridge as vital to integrating Crimea into Russia, both symbolically and as an economic lifeline for the region. Putin has called the undertaking an historic mission.
But the project has had to contend with Western sanctions since the construction contract was handed to Stroygazmontazh last year, a firm controlled by Arkady Rotenberg, a close ally of Putin's and his former judo partner.
Rotenberg is already under U.S. sanctions because of his links to the Russian leader, which the Treasury says have helped him win billions of dollars in state contracts. He cannot raise capital in the West or hire Western sub-contractors to help his firm complete the project.
Officials linked to the bridge's construction say they have all the skills, equipment and supplies required to build it  without Western help.
"The sanctions will not affect the construction of the bridge," Crimea Bridge infocentre, the organization responsible for communications about the project, said in a statement on Thursday. "The contractor has all the resources necessary for the timely completion of the project."
Rotenberg and his brother Boris have denied getting help from the Russian leader for their businesses.
Gazprom did not reply to a request for comment.
The restrictions on the energy giant and its subsidiaries prevent U.S. firms or citizens from providing goods or services supporting the firm's deepwater, arctic offshore, or shale oil projects.
The restriction does not apply to financial services, such as clearing transactions or providing insurance for such projects.
WELLINGTON (Reuters) - Civil defence authorities in New Zealand ordered the evacuation of some coastal areas early on Friday due to fears that an offshore earthquake could cause a tsunami, although the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said it did not see this as a major threat.
The quake struck at 4:37 a.m. (1737 BST) at a depth of 55 km  (34 miles) and was 130 km north-east of Te Araroa, off the North Island, according to government earthquake detection service Geonet.
LIBREVILLE (Reuters) - Three people were killed and up to 1,100 were arrested in Gabon on Thursday, the government said, in a second day of rioting over the announcement of President Ali Bongo's re-election and his main rival's accusation that the vote was rigged.
Opposition challenger Jean Ping accused the elections commission of inflating Bongo's score to hand him a slim victory and extend his family's nearly half-century rule in the oil-producing Central African country for another seven years.
Ping called on Bongo to step down.
Violent protests raged in at least nine neighbourhoods of the capital Libreville, two witnesses and a police source said on Thursday, a day after demonstrators set fire to the parliament building following the results announcement.
"We want everyone to see, to tour the city, to witness the level of devastation, destruction, violence organised by certain politicians who do not want to recognise their defeat," Interior Minister Pacome Moubelet Boubeya said.
He told a news conference that several television stations, supermarkets, shops, and private homes had been looted in Libreville and the city hall was targeted by arsonists. Violence erupted in several other cities and provinces as well, he said.
Moubelet Boubeya said protesters had used grenades and police had seized AK-47 assault rifles, an accusation an opposition spokesman rejected.
Gabon's sovereign dollar bonds fell across the curve with the 2024 and 2025 issue hitting a seven-week low on the back of the violence.
Ping told Reuters in an interview that two people were killed and others wounded when the presidential guard assaulted his party headquarters overnight.
He called for international assistance to protect the population against what he described as "a rogue state".
"The only solution is that Bongo recognises defeat, because he was beaten," Ping later told France's BFM TV. He said that  contesting the results through Gabon's constitutional court, the official channel for complaints, was pointless.
"The constitutional court, like Gabon's electoral commission, is a tool of the governing authority. They do what they are told to do," he said.
Bongo's office accused the Ping camp of planning "coordinated attacks on symbols of the state", adding that security forces had in response encircled Ping's headquarters and clashed with his supporters, resulting in one death.
"The elections gave their verdict. I know who won and who lost," Bongo, first elected in 2009 upon the death of his father Omar Bongo, Gabon's president for 42 years, told reporters on Thursday. "Who lost? A small group whose only aim is to take power for themselves."
The United Nations called for restraint. Former colonial ruler France, the United States and the European Union urged the authorities to release polling station results for greater transparency. Bongo's spokesman rejected the request.
"Transparency exists," Alain-Claude Bilie By Nze told BFM TV. "Those who want a bureau by bureau count will only be able to do this by going through the constitutional court."
On Thursday, a witness reported hearing gunfire and blasts in the Nkembo neighbourhood, near Libreville's city centre, while another saw protesters pillage shops, turn over rubbish bins to block streets and smash cars in the Avea neighbourhood.
A heavy police and army presence was visible on the streets throughout the city.
"This is just a consequence of the current situation. This is because of the victory of Bongo against Jean Ping," said witness Alex Mbadinga, 32.
Libreville residents said the internet was cut on Thursday. Social media networks including Twitter and Facebook stopped functioning overnight. Earlier in the week, customs officials seized satellite telephones they said had been imported illegally.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said there was no room for violence within the political process. "I'm calling, therefore, all parties to exercise the utmost restraint to avoid additional victims."
The office of French President Francois Hollande also called for calm, which "means a process to ensure transparency in the election results".
Bongo won 49.80 percent of votes in Saturday's election against 48.23 percent for Ping, according to results read by Moubelet Boubeya on Wednesday. The announcement had been delayed by one day.
Bongo benefited from a patronage system lubricated by oil money ahead of the vote.
But economic headwinds caused by falling oil prices and crude production have led to budget cuts in one of Africa's statistically wealthiest nations, providing fuel for opposition charges that many ordinary Gabonese citizens have not enjoyed the fruits of oil wealth and suffered under his rule.
The government says it plans to diversify the economy through investments in manganese mining and cash crops like palm oil and rubber.
Ping, a political insider who has served as foreign minister and African Union Commission chairman, was a close ally of the late president and fathered two children with his daughter.
An EU observer mission criticised a "lack of transparency" among institutions running the election and said Bongo had benefited from preferential access to money and the media.
ALMATY (Reuters) - Authorities in Samarkand, the birthplace of Uzbek President Islam Karimov, have urgently mobilised public workers to clean the city's central streets, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters, in a possible sign of preparations for a funeral.
Karimov, 78, suffered a brain haemorrhage on Saturday according to his daughter, and the Tashkent government has since remained silent about his condition, prompting speculation that the veteran authoritarian leader may have died.
The source told Reuters by telephone from Uzbekistan that public workers had been mobilised unexpectedly, late in the day. Municipal authorities in the former Soviet Union usually take such measures before major events such as visits by state or foreign leaders.
In Karimov's case, however, this could also indicate preparations for a funeral. Not only is Samarkand Karimov's birthplace, it is also the place where Amir Timur (Tamerlane), a Turkic conqueror promoted by Karimov as a national hero, is buried.
City authorities in Samarkand could not be reached for comment. The Uzbek service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty also reported unusual activity in central Samarkand, citing anonymous sources. It published several photographs, submitted by its readers, of workers sweeping and washing the area.
The BBC reported that some streets were closed to the public, also citing anonymous sources.
Earlier on Thursday, senior Uzbek officials failed to show up at an event marking 25 years of independence from Moscow, leaving foreign diplomats guessing who was running the country in Karimov's absence. A concert and a fireworks show were also cancelled.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe has banned all demonstrations in the capital Harare for the next two weeks because they are likely to cause public disorder, according to a government notice issued on Thursday.
President Robert Mugabe's opponents have become emboldened by rising public anger over an economic meltdown, cash shortages and high unemployment. Violence erupted last Friday when police fired teargas at opposition leaders and hundreds of demonstrators.
The government notice said the police decided to impose a 14-day ban on all forms of protests in the capital after an assessment by the police commander for Harare, district Chief Superintendent Newbert Saunyama.
People who organise or participate in demonstrations during the period could be fined and jailed for up to a year.
Saunyama declined to comment further, while national police spokeswoman Charity Charamba said she had no details.
Douglas Mwonzora, legal secretary for the National Electoral Reforms Agenda which was planning a march on Friday to present demands to the electoral commission, said the protest had been postponed to September 17.
"The notice is definitely unconstitutional but there is not enough time to challenge it and get a judgment before the demonstration tomorrow, so we decided to postpone it," Mwonzora said.
Opposition parties say the electoral commission is biased in favour of the ruling ZANU-PF and is run by security agencies loyal to Mugabe, charges the commission denies. Mugabe, 92, has led Zimbabwe since independence from Britain in 1980.
AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is targeting the last pockets of resistance to his rule around Damascus and Homs, building on a tactic of siege and bombardment that brought him a victory last week but drew condemnation from the U.N.
As the Damascus suburb of Daraya, a potent symbol of the uprising against Assad, fell last week, the army began to put new pressure on the neighbouring rebel enclave of Mouadamiya and on the besieged al-Waer district of the western city of Homs.
It is a strategy aimed at consolidating Assad's control over government-held areas in a many-fronted civil war that has drawn in regional and global powers and inflamed sectarian hatred while killing over 250,000 and displacing 11 million.
"Daraya is a domino and after that others will fall," said National Reconciliation Minister Ali Haidar on state television.
In nearby Mouadamiya the government has laid down an ultimatum: evacuate the fighters or face a military assault, according to rebels in the town.
In Homs, like Daraya an early centre of the uprising, two days of heavy bombing forced rebels in al-Waer to recommence stalled talks on a similar deal, fighters there say.
The fall of Daraya, whose inhabitants were evacuated through a deal with the government, dealt a major psychological blow to the opposition while encouraging the army to believe it was in reach of subduing rebel bastions around the heavily fortified capital.
However, the U.N.'s aid chief, Stephen O'Brien, voiced "extreme concern" over the evacuation of Daraya, emphasizing the harsh conditions that had brought it to surrender, and warning that it set a dangerous precedent.
"Let us be clear, all sieges, a medieval tactic, must be lifted," he said, adding: "What happened in Daraya should not be precedent-setting for other besieged areas in Syria."
Before last year's Russian intervention that helped turn the tide of war in Assad's favour, the government had used local truces to advance the limited goal of pacifying hotspots including whole towns run by rebel-controlled councils.
It allowed the army and allied militias to escalate military campaigns against the large swathes of rural Syria that are held by an array of insurgent forces, but at the cost of allowing rebels to maintain enclaves around major cities.
Haidar, the reconciliation minister, added a warning in his television interview that rebel-held areas like Daraya could not "remain isolated cantons that pose a threat to the state".
Daraya's surrender came after two months of the heaviest bombing raids since it fell from government control in 2012, the start of an unrelenting siege that left civilians eating grass and cowering from incendiary barrel bombs, residents said.
Days before rebels agreed to evacuate to northwest Syria, army tanks came within metres of trapped residents and fighters, leaving them no option but to leave en masse.
"The tank and air shelling now reached the basements where our families had sheltered and huddled. They turned Daraya into hell and a heap of stones. We had no option," said Abu Jamal, head of the largest insurgent group in Daraya, the Liwa Shuhada al-Islam.
Authorities moved quickly after the fall of Daraya to issue an ultimatum to the rebels of neighbouring Muadamiya, which had been spared similar destruction thanks to a local truce, fighters there said.
Generals of the Syrian government's elite Fourth Brigade, based nearby, laid out non-negotiable terms to insurgents to evacuate within 72 hours or be stormed, said a rebel and member of the suburb's local council who asked not to be named.
The deal would involve 5,000 rebels handing over their heavy weapons and leaving Muadamiya with light arms to join insurgent factions elsewhere in Syria. Any who chose to sever their links to the rebellion could join a new police force in the suburb.
"It's not possible to get something better. We were given the choice of a comprehensive settlement or face the consequences," Ali Khalifa, a member of the rebel team negotiating with the army in Muadamiya, told Reuters.
For Muadamiya it represents the end of the uprising inside the town of 45,000.
"The portraits of Assad which we tore during the protests will now be back. This spells the end of our revolution here. I hope our sacrifices have not gone in vain," said Kinan Natouf, a former engineering student from Muadamiya and fighter there.
In al-Waer, the army and rebels reached an agreement last year brokered by the U.N. involving the release of several thousand prisoners in return for an evacuation of the district's remaining fighters.
As the last remaining insurgent stronghold in Homs, a city that was one of the first to rise against Assad, and which later became a symbol of resistance to his rule, it constitutes a valuable prize for the government.
However, that agreement broke down and in March the army tightened its blockade. It has now started to target the area with rocket bombardments and intense air strikes said Osama Abu Zeid, a pro-opposition media activist there.
"After Daraya the regime exploited what happened to dictate a new agreement that would oblige fighters and their families to leave within two weeks or flatten the neighbourhood," said Osama Abu Zaid an activist on the ground. "We rejected that and now negotiations are back over the old terms of the UN deal," he added.
For many of the rebel groups, fearful of the consequences of surrender when so many of the area's inhabitants are wanted by the government for their part in the uprising, such a deal would be hard to accept.
"Surrendering al-Waer to the Assad regime will be tantamount to subjecting most of the civilians there to imprisonment, torture and death," said a statement from the Armed Revolutionary Groups in al-Waer, a collection of rebel groups.
The defence of the capital, just northeast of Daraya and where the army's best equipped forces are entrenched, is pivotal for the survival of Assad.
But unlike in the symbolically important but comparatively isolated rebel pockets in Daraya and Muadamiya, the insurgents in the capital's Eastern Ghouta district of towns and farms hold a large, contiguous area under their own local administration.
That has stopped successive military campaigns by the army to recapture the rebel stronghold of Duma, the area's largest urban centre.
The outcome of the military advances in Daraya has now buoyed government hopes that a relentless bombing campaign could ultimately bring a similar result in that area, according to military analysts.
However, the opposition and aid agencies decry that policy as one of "starve or surrender", saying it will make it harder in the long run to heal wounds of the civil war.
Already many within the opposition say the practice of evacuating Sunni Muslim fighters and their families from home towns where many sects once mixed was drawing new demographic frontiers that will only fuel the war's sectarian overtones. Assad's Alawite sect is more aligned with Shi'ite Muslims.
"These truces are paving the way for ethnic and political cleansing on an unprecedented scale," said the head of the opposition's Saudi-backed High Negotiations Committee (HNC) Riyad Hijab.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Talks between senior U.S. and Russian officials on a broad ceasefire in Syria are likely to last into the weekend while fighting intensifies, U.N. Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura said on Thursday.
In a separate negotiation, there was still hope of agreeing a weekly 48-hour truce in the divided northern city of Aleppo to allow aid deliveries and medical evacuations, his humanitarian adviser Jan Egeland said.
The two negotiations reflect a desperate diplomatic effort to bring some calm amid an escalation of the five-year conflict, in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria, as Russian, Turkish, Iranian, Saudi and U.S.-backed forces turn up the heat.
Military, security and diplomatic officials from the United States and Russia resumed talks in Geneva on Wednesday to give a "renewed and solid momentum to the cessation of hostilities", de Mistura told reporters in Geneva.
Their talks followed a marathon, ultimately unproductive meeting between U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov last week.
"The discussions currently taking place between the U.S. and Russia at a very high level and operational level go well beyond the 48-hour pause (in Aleppo)," de Mistura told reporters.
"We hope and are helping so that these negotiations, which have lasted too long, may reach an outcome. Time is short."
Egeland said only pressure from countries including Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey - which back different sides in Syria's complex civil war - could unlock the door to aid deliveries.
"It's urgent that we get an agreement. We were informed today that there are now 4,000 food rations left. That would be enough for 20,000 people, and the population of east Aleppo is a quarter of a million," he said of the city's rebel-held part.
Last week the long-besieged rebel-controlled town of Daraya surrendered in a deal with Syrian government-backed forces, and de Mistura said there was clearly a Damascus strategy to achieve similar deals in other besieged towns.
"The (humanitarian) task force failed the people of Daraya, we all failed the people of Daraya," Egeland said. "There are now urgent pleas from communities in al Waer, Moadamiya, Madaya and in (rebel-besieged) Foue and Kefraya to break the sieges of those places... And we need to break the sieges."
Egeland also voiced concern about a meningitis outbreak in Madaya, "where we were going to evacuate people today and we couldn't because of fighting".
Six suspected cases of meningitis, a potentially fatal bacterial infection, have been identified this month in Madaya, and only two of the victims have been evacuated despite requests to Syrian authorities, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Russian air cover and Iranian-backed militias are enabling Syria's government to keep fighting in Aleppo, distracting the world from the planned "cleansing" of besieged areas across Syria, an opposition negotiator told Reuters on Thursday.
Basma Kodmani, a member of the Saudi-backed opposition High Negotiations Committee, said forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad had changed tactics after failing to starve rebels out of besieged zones.
"The threat that we’ve heard over four years – 'starve or surrender' – is now 'surrender or we will wipe you out'. We have really gone a step further in the cynicism and the criminal behaviour of the regime," Kodmani said.
Last week the besieged rebel-held town of Daraya surrendered and the U.N. has said the Syrian army and its allied militia are pressing to repeat that in other besieged opposition zones such as the al-Waer district of Homs, where there are 75,000 people.
"We really need to have an alarm sounded clearly, including by the United States, on those other neighbourhoods," Kodmani said.
"Daraya has become the symbol of the worst that can happen, which can lead to mass displacement of people, ethnic-political cleansing, whatever we want to call it."
In the divided northern city of Aleppo, the U.N. has been trying to broker a regular 48-hour truce to let aid in.
While the U.N. talks grind on, Kodmani said reinforcements of Iraqi militias and an elite Hezbollah unit have arrived in southwestern Aleppo, readying for a big offensive against the rebels and backed by air cover.
"Our fear of course is that Russia will continue to provide air cover," she said. "If Russia was to agree not to lead this battle then it wouldn’t happen. The regime doesn’t have the capacity to provide the air cover any more. This is a war that can only be waged with Russia."
Russia is refusing to apply the 48-hour truce to the whole city, leading the opposition to suspect that it wants to keep bombing rebel-held areas even as aid is trucked into Aleppo down a road held by the army and allied forces, Kodmani said.
"The way you break the circle is to get the Russians to stop: with no air cover, they cannot operate on the ground without it."
BUCHAREST (Reuters) - Romania's Interior Minister Petre Toba resigned on Thursday pending a criminal investigation against him over allegations of shielding suspects in a case involving suspected embezzlement and abuse of power.
Anti-corruption prosecutors asked President Klaus Iohannis earlier in the day to endorse a probe against Toba. He is the latest senior figure to be investigated in a crackdown on corruption that has been praised by the European Commission, which keeps Romania's justice system under special monitoring.
The country is due to hold a parliamentary election on Dec. 11.
"I decided to submit my resignation ... to avoid dragging the ministry into a public scandal on the eve of elections," Toba told state news agency Agerpres.
"I strongly reject all accusations and I put myself at the authorities' disposal to help clarify the situation."
Prosecutors said Toba had refused to declassify documents in a case against officials from his ministry's in-house secret service, the DIPI. They said they were investigating allegations of abuse of power and embezzling funds that cost the state 410,000 lei (77,776.94 pounds)
In that case, which went to trial in May, DIPI officials are alleged to have rerouted funds meant for national security towards purchasing dolls' houses, dart boards, volleyballs, archery equipment, leather-bound deluxe edition books and an electric stove worth 17,000 lei.
The prosecutors said that by refusing to declassify the documents, Toba had aided the suspects in the case.
Under Romanian legislation, ministers can be investigated only with presidential approval. Iohannis is widely expected to approve the request.
($1 = 3.9791 lei)
JARABLUS, Syria (Reuters) - Flashing victory signs and firing in the air, the young rebels who took this Syrian town from Islamic State a week ago may be jubilant, but their ability to hold territory will hinge on Turkey's appetite for keeping its forces inside Syria.
Sweeping in to Jarablus may have been the easy part. Backed by Turkish tanks, jets and special forces, Arab and Turkmen fighters under the loose banner of the Free Syrian Army (FSA) drove out Islamic State in a matter of hours last Wednesday.
It could prove more difficult for the rebels, who number only around 1,500 fighters, to push west and secure the 90 km (56-mile) stretch of Islamic State-held border territory that Ankara has touted as a potential buffer zone.
They face not only the challenge of displacing the ultra-hardline Islamist group but of preventing Kurdish militia fighters, backed by the United States but viewed as a hostile force by Turkey, from filling the void.
"Daesh and the Kurds are the same. Both of them brought these people to hunger," said Fikret Ismail, a rebel fighter in his late 20s, using an Arabic name for Islamic State.
"We will fight for our land with our last blood," he said, as he patrolled a street near the Jarablus town centre, brandishing a rifle and surrounded by a group of small children.
Turkey has revealed little about the strategy behind its first major incursion into Syria, beyond saying it wants to drive Islamic State and Kurdish fighters away from the border.
"Operation Euphrates Shield" has drawn criticism from NATO ally Washington, which has called on Turkey to avoid confrontation with Kurdish-aligned forces and stay focused instead on the joint battle against Islamic State.
The United States sees the Syrian Kurdish YPG as its strongest ally against the Sunni radicals. Turkey views them as a terrorist group and is worried that their advance in northern Syria will embolden a Kurdish insurgency at home. It has said no one can tell it which terrorist group it should fight.
On Thursday, the Turkish military said it had taken three more villages around 20 km (12 miles) west of Jarablus and hit 15 militant targets with howitzers and four more in air strikes. It gave no details on the targets, but the villages were in an area still held by Islamic State.
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group, confirmed the takeover of 3 villages near the border.
Jarablus had been under Islamic State rule for three years and its black and white murals can still be seen on the walls. The town is slowly coming back to life. Women walk the streets, their faces uncovered. One man told Reuters one of his first acts when the group fled was to trim his beard.
A week after it helped drive out the jihadists, there is no sign of the Turkish military in Jarablus itself. Instead, the town was filled with the scruffy young rebels Ankara is backing, some driving their Toyota trucks, machine guns mounted in the back, at high speed through the streets.
Turkey's aim is to turn the fractured Free Syrian Army into a coherent force as a counterweight to the Kurdish YPG, said Metin Gurcan, a former major in the Turkish military and an analyst for the Al Monitor journal. Which group gained control of al-Bab, a town to the south, would be critical, he said.
Al-Bab, held by Islamic State, lies on the southern edge of what Ankara sees as its potential buffer zone. Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, one of the ultra-hardline Islamist group's most prominent leaders, is thought to have been killed in a U.S. air strike there this week.
"You have two forces who are very eager, highly motivated, to capture al-Bab. At the end of the day, this serves the strategic interests of the U.S., which is prioritising the fight against ISIS," Gurcan said.
Turkish-backed forces have also been advancing towards Manbij, a city around 30 km (20 miles) south of Jarablus that was captured last month from Islamic State by a U.S.-backed coalition that includes the YPG.
Ankara, which accuses the YPG of "ethnic cleansing" in northern Syria, has demanded that Kurdish fighters return to the east of the Euphrates river. Manbij, like Jarablus, is west of the river. Turkey has long said that a Kurdish presence west of the Euphrates is a "red line" it cannot abide.
Mohammed, a 16-year-old rebel in Jarablus who had been fighting with the FSA for just a month, told Reuters he was from Manbij and had no desire to fight the Kurds.
"Everything is destroyed in Manbij now," he said, blaming the ruin on Islamic State.
Turkey has repeatedly lobbied for the creation of a "buffer zone" just inside Syria to help secure its border and create a protected area for displaced civilians. But the idea has failed to resonate with NATO allies, who see such a move as requiring a prolonged intervention and whose focus is on Islamic State.
Turkey has taken in nearly 3 million Syrian refugees since the start of its neighbour's five-year war, and is under pressure from Europe to stem the flow of migrants trying to travel onwards illegally from its shores.
Ankara has been providing aid to tens of thousands of displaced civilians just inside Syria, effectively a step towards creating a de facto safe zone.
"In order to create a 'buffer zone,' Turkey would have to keep a significant force on the Syrian side of the border," said James Stavridis, former NATO supreme commander and dean at the Fletcher School at Tufts University.
Such a strategy appeared immediately unlikely, he said, but added it could not be ruled out in the longer term.
"Turkey will have a set of unpalatable choices ahead of it having entered into serious military operations in Syria."
Colonel Ahmad Osman, head of the Sultan Murad forces, one of the main Turkish-backed rebel groups, told Reuters last week that the priority was now to advance some 70 km westward to the town of Marea, long a frontline with Islamic State.
The next phase of their operation could take weeks or months, he said, and could require an increase in the number of rebel fighters from their current level of 1,200-1,500.
While they did not wish to fight Kurdish forces, they would do so if necessary, Osman said.
For Turkey, which has long called for the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, containing advances by the Kurdish militia appears to have eclipsed all other concerns.
"The fundamental Turkish red line is not Assad," Stavridis, the former NATO commander, said. "It is against the formation of a Kurdish state."
DOHA/BERLIN (Reuters) - The United States is poised to sell $7 billion (5.27 billion pounds) worth of Boeing Co fighter jets to Qatar and Kuwait after years of delays, and it may start notifying U.S. lawmakers as early as next week, four U.S.- and Gulf-based sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.
The sales have been pending for more than two years, amid concerns raised by Israel, Washington's closest Middle East ally, that equipment sent to Gulf Arab states would be used against it.
U.S. officials have criticised Qatar for alleged ties to armed Islamist groups.
Boeing said it was encouraged by continued progress and hoped to see movement on the two big arms sales soon. The State Department said it could not comment on any ongoing government-to-government arms sales.
Delays in the process have caused frustration among U.S. defence officials and industry executives, who have warned that Washington’s foot-dragging could cost them billions of dollars of business if buyers grow impatient and seek other suppliers.
The expected approval of the fighter jet sales comes as the White House seeks to shore up relations with Gulf Arab allies who want to increase their military capabilities. They fear Washington is drawing closer to Iran, their arch-rival, after its nuclear deal with world powers earlier this year.
"It is imminent. We expect a decision next week," said an official from Qatar's defence ministry, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak publicly.
An adviser to Qatar's military also said the deal was moving ahead.
Neither commented on the cost or number of jets that would be delivered.
The Pentagon and the State Department have been considering the sale of 36 Boeing F-15 fighter jets to Qatar valued at around $4 billion. They are also considering the sale of 28 F/A- 18E/F Super Hornets, plus options for 12 more, to Kuwait in a deal valued at around $3 billion.
Sources said officials at both agencies had largely agreed to the deals some time ago, but had been awaiting final approval from the White House, which is now on board.
"A decision by the administration is very close," said one of the sources, who was not authorized to speak publicly.
Once the White House gives its formal approval, U.S. officials will start to informally notify U.S. lawmakers before sending a formal notification to Congress 40 days later, at which point the deals will be publicly announced.
A third deal, the sale of F-16 fighters built by Lockheed Martin Corp to Bahrain, remains under consideration, but approval is not as far along, said one of the sources.
Qatar - home to the largest U.S. air base in the Middle East - and Kuwait have ramped up military spending after uprisings across the Arab World and amid rising tensions between Gulf Arab states and Iran.
Both Qatar and Kuwait are part of a 34-nation alliance announced by Saudi Arabia in December aimed at countering Islamic State and al Qaeda in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Egypt and Afghanistan.
NAUNG CHO TOWNSHIP, Myanmar (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - In the sweltering midday heat, several dozen convicts shackled at the ankles hacked with hoes at shrubs and grass in a field in Myanmar's northern Shan State.
"One! Two! Three! Four!" one of the men shouted, waving a long bamboo cane to the beat of the hoeing. A prison warden looked on with a rifle slung over his shoulder and holding an umbrella for the blazing sun.
Wearing blue shirts and sarongs, the convicts were from Kaung Hmu Labour Camp, seen in June as they cleared wasteland along the Mandalay-Lashio Road for the expansion of a sugarcane plantation.
The man barking orders - known in Burmese as a "dote-kai", or a stick-holder - was a prisoner appointed to supervise the labour in return for avoiding backbreaking work himself.
Such stick-holders routinely flog prisoners to make them work harder and aren't afraid to use violence to crush dissent, former prisoners say.
"The stick-holders would beat us at will," said Zeyar Lin, an ex-convict released from Kaung Hmu Labour Camp in early June.
"We worked at the front and they beat us from the rear. Even if a tiny plant was left after clearing weeds in the sugarcane plantations we were beaten."
A months-long investigation by Myanmar Now, an independent website supported by the Thomson Reuters Foundation, reveals that brutal beatings are just one of many rights abuses common in Myanmar's penal system, which activists describe as a form of state-sponsored slavery.
Dozens of interviews with ex-convicts and former prison officials painted a picture of dire working conditions and rampant corruption among guards who force prisoners to pay bribes to escape beatings and heavy labour.
The investigation also showed that prisons profit by selling convict labour to private companies for hefty fees, in violation of international conventions on forced labour that Myanmar has ratified.
The Ministry of Home Affairs said it would look into Myanmar Now's findings but declined to comment further.
Myanmar has 48 labour camps, holding some 20,000 prisoners, according to the Correctional Department of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
The practices at labour camps uncovered by the Myanmar Now investigation continue months after Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) came to power in March, after sweeping 2015 elections.
Many of the ruling party's members themselves spent years in jail as political prisoners during their decades of struggle against military rule, while Suu Kyi was kept under house arrest for some 15 years.
"Personally, I think the new government should work towards shutting down all these prison labour camps as a political priority," said Khin Maung Myint, a former chief jailor who retired in 2002 after 25 years at the Correctional Department and is now a legal consultant on Myanmar's penal system.
"Prisoners at these camps are being punished in a way that violates existing laws," he said, adding that prisoners receive inadequate food and healthcare while prison authorities "are trying to extract all their labour in all sorts of ways".
Among the 48 labour camps, 30 are dubbed "agriculture and livestock breeding career training centres" where prisoners work on plantations run by the Correctional Department, or are put to work at private plantations and local farms.
At 18 sites, mostly in Mon States in southeastern Myanmar, thousands of convicts are deployed in rock quarries - officially called "manufacturing centres" - where they break granite and limestone boulders and crush them into gravel with sledgehammers.
The gravel is sold to government agencies or private companies for infrastructure and construction projects, bringing in the equivalent of millions of dollars for prison authorities, according to prison sales records seen by Myanmar Now.
A Myanmar Now reporter took photo and video evidence of harsh labour conditions at nine prison labour camps in Shan and Mon States, and in Mandalay and Sagaing Region.
In interviews, ex-inmates from camps in Shan State's Naung Cho Township and Sagaing Region's Kalay Township consistently described being forced to pay bribes to avoid abuse and hard labour.
Kaung Hmu Labour Camp is one of five camps in the mountains around Naung Cho, at an altitude of around 1,000 metres (3,300 feet) where the nights are cold and the days are hot.
Around 200 men are held in Kaung Hmu and work six days a week on the camp's 140-acre (57-hectare) sugarcane plantation, or in private sugarcane and cornfields and rice paddies that dot the green, fertile valleys.
Zeyar Lin, 25, arrived at Kaung Hmu in early 2015. He was a former policeman from Bago Region who was serving a two-year sentence for fighting with his superintendent.
On his way to the camp, wardens put iron shackles on his ankles, he said. Once there, regular beatings and a crushing workload quickly took their toll.
"I was accused of being slow at work, so my back was beaten, my buttocks were beaten - at least 30 strokes every day," he said.
After a month, he had his mother pay around $500 to the deputy chief jailor to stop the beatings. He was then assigned to boil water and prepare tea or coffee for prison officials, a task he performed until his release.
Zeyar Lin said the poorest prisoners had no such option, and some resorted to offering sex or other services to wealthy convicts or the stick-holders to seek protection.
"You will bribe to get a better task, you will sacrifice your body, or you will toil as an animal," he said. "You had no other options – we were all slaves."
Khin Maung Myint, the former chief jailor, said the prison labour system encouraged abuse and corruption because it gave authorities full power to assign tasks and enforce corporal punishment.
"You can bribe officials for what kind of iron shackles you want to be put on: lighter ones or heavier ones," he said. "Or you have to bribe more if you want to have the shackles taken off. Some who can't afford it will have to wear them until they are released."
According to prison rules, an inmate cannot be kept shackled longer than two months after arriving at a camp.
Aung Soe, 51, served 17 years in Myanmar's prisons and was released from Hokho Labour Camp in Naung Cho in 2014.
"The reason prisoners are beaten is to make everyone fear the prison staff. When prisoners lose all hope, they will bribe officials," he said, adding that those who pay $1,000 might become clerks while $700 is enough to become a stick-holder.
During a brief visit to a camp in Naung Cho, Myanmar Now exchanged a few sentences with a prisoner convicted for murder. The man, 37, was deeply tanned from daily toil in the fields, which he said he had done for the past year-and-a-half.
"I was beaten just yesterday," he said, pointing at scars on his legs. "If I could get 300,000 kyats ($250), I could buy the position of water-boiler (to escape labour), but none of my family members have ever visited me."
He added: "You can clear the weeds for one acre, then the next day you are asked to do two acres. I can’t stand it anymore. I try to control myself so I don’t I fight back."
Current and former prison officials say the practice of raising revenues from private companies comes from a Correctional Department directive stating that camps must generate enough funds to cover their running costs.
Rock quarries supply construction firms with thousands of tonnes of gravel per day. Agricultural camps sell the produce from state-owned plantations and hire out convicts to private plantations and local farms, officials and former inmates said.
Any deals putting prisoners at the disposal of companies would violate the 1930 International Labour Organisation (ILO) Forced Labour Convention, which Myanmar ratified in 1955.
The convention says convicted prisoners can only work if "the said work or service is carried out under the supervision and control of a public authority, and the person is not hired to or placed at the disposal of private individuals, companies or associations".
Piyamal Pichaiwongse, deputy liaison officer with the ILO's Myanmar office, said she couldn't comment on whether forced labour was taking place in the Myanmar prison labour system as there had been few complaints and little evidence of wrongdoing.
After being interviewed by Myanmar Now, Zeyar Lin, the former convict, contacted the ILO to complain about his prison treatment in Naung Cho Township.
Piyamal Pichaiwongse said the ILO was looking into his case as a "forced labour complaint", adding that Zeyar Lin's prison sentence didn't include hard labour.
Htay Lwin Tun, superintendent of Htone Bo Labour Camp in Mandalay, was previously in charge of five camps in Naung Cho. He denied that beatings and bribery were common, saying just one case of violent conduct was reported in 2014.
"Since the case didn't lead to lethal injury, I just gave a verbal warning to the prison officer involved," he said in an interview at Htone Bo Labour Camp.
Min Tun Soe, a deputy director of the Correctional Department, told Myanmar Now that severe abuses and extreme labour conditions were a thing of the past, and that reforms initiated by the government of former President Thein Sein between 2011 and 2015 had improved conditions for prisoners.
"I don't claim that the beatings have completely stopped, but general conditions regarding food and accommodation have improved," he said.
In August, a Lower House lawmaker for the NLD asked the Ministry of Home Affairs, which remains under military control, whether it would allow lawmakers to investigate prison conditions, including reports of corruption and abuse in labour camps.
Deputy Minister Gen. Kyaw Soe responded that the Correctional Department had effective mechanisms to investigate such complaints, adding that no violations had been reported.
He said the Myanmar Human Rights Commission and the International Committee of the Red Cross were also monitoring prison conditions.
Zaw Win, the Myanmar Human Rights Commission member, said violent abuse in labour camps was limited to isolated cases and was not an institutional problem.
"There is some scolding and slapping, but no more torture and cruel beatings like in the past," said Zaw Win, whose commission is appointed by the President's Office.
David Mathieson, a senior Myanmar researcher with Human Rights Watch, said government officials and the commission were turning a blind eye to abuse.
The Home Affairs Ministry should order a review of the prison labour system with the aim of ending it, he said, while the NLD-dominated parliament “should announce an immediate investigation into the Department of Corrections ... that includes a thorough accounting of all the prisoners thought to have disappeared into abusive labour camps."
Myanmar Now has obtained hundreds of internal Correctional Department documents that stretch back decades and shed light on junta-era policies for managing prison labour camps.
A document from 1993 refers to a statement by then-Minister of Home Affairs Lt-Gen. Phone Myint, who said prisoners' labour was "wasted" if they only remained incarcerated. Their free labour should be used instead for state-owned plantations, infrastructure projects and to generate funds that cover running the prisons, it said.
As late as October 2014, junta-era language was still in use by Thein Sein's government to explain prison labour policies.
Former Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Brig-Gen. Kyaw Kyaw Tun told parliament at the time that the camps "use the prisoners' labour, which is going to waste in the prisons, for state-level agriculture, livestock breeding and rock quarry projects, and to ensure that the prisoners learn about agriculture and livestock breeding techniques and have attained a vocational profession upon their release."
After the NLD assumed power in March, it urged all departments and ministries to come up with reform priorities for their first 100 days in office.
The Correctional Department's reform plans for this period came to a single sentence: "To increase the duration of family visits in prison from 15 minutes to 20 minutes, and allow family members to visit any day of the week."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States and its negotiating partners agreed "in secret" to allow Iran to evade some restrictions in last year's landmark nuclear agreement in order to meet the deadline for it to start getting relief from economic sanctions, according to a report reviewed by Reuters.
The report is to be published on Thursday by the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said the think tank’s president David Albright, a former U.N. weapons inspector and co-author of the report. It is based on information provided by several officials of governments involved in the negotiations, who Albright declined to identify.
Reuters could not independently verify the report's assertions.
"The exemptions or loopholes are happening in secret, and it appears that they favour Iran," Albright said.
Among the exemptions were two that allowed Iran to exceed the deal's limits on how much low-enriched uranium (LEU) it can keep in its nuclear facilities, the report said. LEU can be purified into highly enriched, weapons-grade uranium.
The exemptions, the report said, were approved by the joint commission the deal created to oversee implementation of the accord. The commission is comprised of the United States and its negotiating partners -- called the P5+1 -- and Iran.
One senior "knowledgeable" official was cited by the report as saying that if the joint commission had not acted to create these exemptions, some of Iran’s nuclear facilities would not have been in compliance with the deal by Jan. 16, the deadline for the beginning of the lifting of sanctions.
The U.S. administration has said that the world powers that negotiated the accord -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany -- made no secret arrangements.
A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the joint commission and its role were "not secret." He did not address the report's assertions of exemptions.
Diplomats at the United Nations for the other P5+1 countries did not respond to Reuters' requests for comment on the report.
The report's assertions are likely to anger critics of the nuclear deal. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has vowed to renegotiate the agreement if he's elected, while Democrat Hillary Clinton supports the accord.
Albright said the exceptions risked setting precedents that Iran could use to seek additional waivers.
Albright served as an inspector with the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) team that investigated former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's nuclear weapons programme.
While Albright has neither endorsed nor denounced the overall agreement, he has expressed concern over what he considers potential flaws in the nuclear deal, including the expiration of key limitations on Iran's nuclear work in 10-15 years.
The administration of President Barack Obama informed Congress of the exemptions on Jan. 16, said the report. Albright said the exemptions, which have not been made public, were detailed in confidential documents sent to Capitol Hill that day -- after the exemptions had already been granted.
The White House official said the administration had briefed Congress "frequently and comprehensively" on the joint commission's work.
Democratic Senator Bob Menendez, a leading critic of the Iran deal and a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told Reuters in an email: "I was not aware nor did I receive any briefing (on the exemptions).”
As part of the concessions that allowed Iran to exceed uranium limits, the joint commission agreed to exempt unknown quantities of 3.5 percent LEU contained in liquid, solid and sludge wastes stored at Iranian nuclear facilities, according to the report. The agreement restricts Iran to stockpiling only 300 kg of 3.5 percent LEU.
The commission approved a second exemption for an unknown quantity of near 20 percent LEU in "lab contaminant" that was determined to be unrecoverable, the report said. The nuclear agreement requires Iran to fabricate all such LEU into research reactor fuel.
If the total amount of excess LEU Iran possesses is unknown, it is impossible to know how much weapons-grade uranium it could yield, experts said.
The draft report said the joint commission also agreed to allow Iran to keep operating 19 radiation containment chambers larger than the accord set. These so-called "hot cells" are used for handling radioactive material but can be "misused for secret, mostly small-scale plutonium separation efforts," said the report. Plutonium is another nuclear weapons fuel.
The deal allowed Iran to meet a 130-tonne limit on heavy water produced at its Arak facility by selling its excess stock on the open market. But with no buyer available, the joint commission helped Tehran meet the sanctions relief deadline by allowing it to send 50 tonnes of the material -- which can be used in nuclear weapons production -- to Oman, where it was stored under Iranian control, the report said.
The shipment to Oman of the heavy water that can be used in nuclear weapons production has already been reported. Albright's report made the new assertion that the joint committee had approved this concession.
ROME (Reuters) - The mayor of Rome, elected in June in a breakthrough for the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement, suffered a major setback on Thursday when key members of her city government resigned along with the chiefs of the municipal transport and refuse companies.
Virginia Raggi's performance as mayor is widely seen as critical to the prospects of 5-Star, which polls suggest has a strong chance of victory the next national election, due in 2018.
She won the June 19 election with a crushing 67 percent of the vote against the candidate of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, promising to turn around a city beset for years by corruption and poor public services.
5-Star's leaders believe success in Rome can be a stepping stone to national government, but Raggi's early months in office have been hard.
After internal party bickering delayed the formation of her city government, she seemed to have finally made progress in overcoming Rome's chronic problems with trash collection before Thursday's shock resignations.
The councillor responsible for fixing Rome's debt-ridden budget quit along with Raggi's chief of staff, followed by the director general and the CEO of the city's transport company ATAC and the head of its trash collection firm AMA.
Raggi's chief of staff has been at the centre of a controversy over her high salary, while the head of the city's budget policy, Marcello Minenna, did not say why he was leaving.
The chief of AMA said he could not continue without Minenna, who had chosen him, and the director general of ATAC said city hall had meddled in personnel issues and he had not received funds promised to turn the company around.
Politicians from Renzi's Democratic Party said the chaos proved that 5-Star was unfit to govern, while Paola Taverna, a lower house deputy and one of 5-Star's most prominent figures, admitted the resignations were "a heavy blow".
The 5-Star Movement is running neck-and-neck with the PD, according to opinion polls, but the same polls suggest that it would be most likely to emerge victorious under Italy's two-round voting system.
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - China and the United States are expected to give the Paris climate change agreement a big push forward as the world's largest economies gather for the G20 summit this weekend, including potentially jointly announcing their ratification of the deal and action to curb fossil fuel subsidies, experts say.
With China – which has shown growing international leadership on climate change – hosting the summit for the first time, "we can expect climate and energy to be front and center", said Joanna Lewis, a specialist at Georgetown University on energy and environmental issues in China.
The Sept. 4-5 summit is also the last for U.S. President Barack Obama, who hopes to cement action on climate change as one of his legacy issues, experts say.
China and the United States, the world’s two biggest contributors to climate change, have made a joint political push to drive action on the problem since 2014, when they made their targets for the Paris agreement public at the same time.
"The U.S. and China are poised to lead the way in the G20 (on climate action) so other countries will follow,” Lewis told journalists by telephone.
But with China still accounting for more than half of the world’s coal use, and G20 countries so far committed to only a sixth of the emissions cuts needed to hold global temperature to “well below 2 degrees Celsius”, as agreed in Paris, much more needs to be done, said Lutz Weischer, head of international climate policy at Germanwatch, an advocacy group that tracks climate action.
In particular, planned new coal-fired power plants within the G20 would nearly double coal capacity if built, and would make it "virtually impossible" to keep warming even to 2 degrees, said a report issued Thursday by the Climate Transparency consortium.
“In the real world, there is still a long way to go, particularly for the G20, and they need to reflect that in a more serious way,” Weischer told journalists.
Li Shuo, a climate and energy specialist with Greenpeace East Asia, said China in particular should commit to more ambitious carbon-cutting goals under the Paris agreement, as the country’s progress suggests it could start decreasing its emissions by 2020 rather than 2030, its current goal.
Climate change will be far from the only issue on the G20’s plate at talks on Sunday and Monday. Other challenges - from the slowing world economy to terrorism, refugees and political uncertainty in members such as Britain, the European Union and Brazil – will likely be at the forefront.
But with China expected to meet its Paris climate commitment to peak emissions ahead of schedule, as it slowly reduces its use of coal and pushes hard on renewable energy investment, experts say it is likely to use the summit as a way to highlight its successes and pressure others.
G20 countries produce about 80 percent of climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions, with China and the United States alone responsible for 38 percent, noted Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute (WRI).
Getting more G20 members to ratify the Paris climate deal could boost momentum for it to take effect early, perhaps even by the end of this year or early next, he added.
That is considered increasingly important as the world continues to break temperature records on an almost monthly basis and struggles with more extreme weather, worsening coral bleaching, and other impacts that suggest climate change is advancing faster than anticipated.
For the milestone Paris climate agreement to come into effect, 55 countries representing 55 percent of the world’s emissions must ratify it.
So far 23 countries have done so, but 55 nations accounting for 58 percent of emissions have indicated they will approve the deal by the end of the year, said Andrew Light, a senior fellow at WRI and a former U.S. State Department climate adviser.
“The U.S., China and others have said they will meet this timeline. The question is whether all G20 countries will make a similar commitment,” he said.
Countries such as Brazil and Ukraine are now going through domestic steps toward ratification, he said, though getting the deal approved in the European Union will be more complex, as every member state needs to agree first.
G20 countries – which represent 82 percent of the world’s GDP - are also facing pressure to declare a deadline to phase out the fossil fuel subsidies they provide, which critics say hurt investment in clean energy and slow efforts to reduce the use of fossil fuels.
In recent days, investors managing $13 trillion and insurers handling more than $1.2 trillion in assets have called for G20 countries to announce a deadline to end the subsidies.
“Climate change... represents the mother of all risks – to business and to society as a whole,” warned Mark Wilson, CEO of insurer Aviva, in a statement. “And that risk is magnified by the way in which fossil fuel subsidies distort the energy market.”
Leaders in the G20 agreed in 2009 to phase out fossil fuels, but are yet to set a firm date, although G7 leaders have said they would do so by 2025, as part of a broader agreement announced last year to decarbonize the global economy.
Some 30 countries around the world have taken steps to cut subsidies in the last three years, from India, which eliminated diesel subsidies in 2014, to Germany, which aims to remove coal subsidies by 2018, said Helen Mountford, programme director for the New Climate Economy initiative and a WRI economist.
China is also expected to push at the summit for broader action on “green finance”, to help ensure that more of the anticipated $90 trillion-worth of new infrastructure to be built by 2030 is low-carbon, Steer said.
“If we’re to move from today’s high-carbon, low-efficiency world economy to tomorrow’s high-efficiency, low-carbon world economy, quite a lot needs to shift,” he said.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - Pope Francis will make Mother Teresa, the world's most famous nun, a saint on Sunday. Following are key facts about her life.
Mother Teresa was born to ethnic Albanian parents on August 26, 1910 in Skopje, now the capital of Macedonia, and named Gonxha Agnes Bojaxhiu. Deeply religious, she became a nun at the age of 16, joining the Loreto abbey in Ireland. Two years later she was given the name Sister Teresa.
In early 1929 she moved to Calcutta, now known as Kolkata,  where she became a teacher and, 15 years on, headmistress at a convent school.
In 1946 she received "a call within a call" to found the Missionaries of Charity, officially established as a religious congregation in 1950. Nuns of the order began calling her Mother Teresa. The Indian government granted her citizenship in 1951.
The following year Mother Teresa opened her first home for the dying, and in 1957 her first mobile leprosy clinic. She worked for three decades in India before leaving for the first time in 1960, going to the United States to address the National Council of Catholic Women.
In 1965, Pope Paul VI granted the Decree of Praise to Mother Teresa's religious order, bringing it directly under Vatican jurisdiction. That same year the first Missionaries of Charity house outside India was founded, in Venezuela. Others later opened in Italy, Tanzania, Australia and the United States.
In 1979 Mother Teresa was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for her work for the world's destitute. "I am unworthy," she said.
Despite declining health, including arthritis, failing eyesight and heart problems, she continued to work. Pope John Paul granted her request to open a shelter for vagrants inside the walls of the Vatican. In 1988 she opened her first communities in the former Soviet Union.
In March 1997 Sister Nirmala, a former Hindu who converted to Roman Catholicism, succeeded Mother Teresa as leader of the Missionaries of Charity.
On September 5, 1997, Mother Teresa died of a heart attack at her order's headquarters in Kolkata. An array of world dignitaries attended her funeral.
In October Archbishop Henry D'Souza successfully petitioned the Vatican to waive the usual delay of five years after death before initiating the beatification process.
In late 2002, the Vatican ruled that an Indian woman's stomach tumour had been miraculously cured after prayers to Mother Teresa. Pope John Paul wanted to declare her a saint immediately, bypassing the beatification process, but was dissuaded by cardinals.
In December 2015, Pope Francis opened the way for her canonisation by approving a decree recognising a second miracle attributed to her intercession with God -- the healing of a Brazilian who recovered from a severe brain infection in 2008.
NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The La Nina weather phenomenon is likely to worsen drought and hunger in Somalia, especially in the north where many people and their animals are migrating in search of water after four failed rainy seasons, the United Nations said on Thursday.
La Nina, characterized by unusually cold temperatures in the equatorial Pacific Ocean, is predicted to bring further hardship to swathes of east and southern Africa already hit by the El Nino weather phenomenon.
El Nino, a warming of the Pacific Ocean, brought severe drought to northern parts of Somalia, like Puntland and Somaliland, and floods to southern and central areas.
"The situation could further worsen in the likelihood of a La Niña event," the United Nations (U.N.) Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in its latest bulletin.
"The outlook for Puntland compounds an already dire situation with the food security situation for southern and central Somalia also increasingly worrying."
Somalia's 2011 famine, in which 260,000 people died, was partly the result of a significant La Nina following El Nino.
Four out of 10 Somalis -- some 4.7 million people -- already need humanitarian aid, the United Nations said, amid conflict between the Islamist militant group al Shabaab and the African Union-backed government.
The Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWSNET) predicts La Nina will last throughout Somalia's October to January short rainy season, known as the Deyr.
This could increase hunger and migration, the United Nations said, as poor rains have already destroyed crops and reduced the opportunity for people to earn money as farm laborers.
The August harvest is likely to be 30 percent to 50 percent below average in southern and central Somalia due to poor Gu rains between April and July, the United Nations said.
"The food security situation in southern and central and northeastern parts of Somalia is expected to deteriorate in the coming months with more people facing acute food insecurity," it said.
PRISTINA (Reuters) - Kosovo's government dropped plans for a parliamentary vote on a bitterly contested law on establishing its definitive border with Montenegro on Thursday after coalition allies stayed away from the session.
The row has fuelled months of violent clashes in the young country, including the firing of rocket-propelled grenades at parliament.
"We are taking this vote off the agenda for today," Prime Minister Isa Mustafa said after 11 lawmakers from his ethnic Serb coalition ally scuppered the law by not showing up.
Mustafa's announcement was greeted with cheers from about 1,000 opposition supporters who had been facing off against police in riot gear defending the parliament building with armoured vehicles.
A two-thirds majority would have been needed to force the measure through. Mustafa said the government would seek to pass it later.
The European Union has said the border deal, which the opposition says would see swathes of forested highland transferred to neighbouring Montenegro, is crucial if Kosovars are to join their former Yugoslav neighbours in enjoying visa-free travel to the bloc.
Vetevendosje, the largest opposition party, has said it will do everything it can, both inside and outside parliament, to stop the assembly approving the border deal.
Since October, its lawmakers have repeatedly released tear gas inside parliament in protest against the law, while six of its supporters were arrested on Tuesday on suspicion of firing a rocket-propelled grenade at parliament.
They say the deal, opposed even by some of the government's own lawmakers, would give Montenegro 8,000 hectares of Kosovo's territory, though the government and others, including the United States, say this is not the case.
Earlier, police said they had found 50 rucksacks containing petrol bombs in a private garage in Pristina. Two Vetevendosje lawmakers were also arrested inside parliament carrying what police described as "suspicious spray."
Kosovo broke from neighbouring Serbia in 1999 after a NATO bombing campaign halted a campaign of "ethnic cleansing" directed against ethnic Albanians by Serbian forces who were trying to stamp out a two-year insurgency.
The majority-Albanian territory, which declared independence in 2008, has been recognised by more than 100 countries, including Western powers, but not by Serbia and its big-power ally Russia or several EU members such as Spain.
MADRID (Reuters) - Spanish health authorities said on Thursday they were investigating a possible outbreak of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) which has killed one man and infected a nurse, in the first non-imported case reported in Western Europe.
The 62-year-old man died on Aug. 25 after contracting the CCHF disease during a walk in the Castilla-Leon region, probably from a tick bite he reported - which is one of the main ways it is transmitted - authorities said in a statement.
He also infected the nurse who treated him at a hospital in Madrid and she is now in a stable condition in quarantine at an isolation unit, they said. Authorities are monitoring about 200 other people who had come into contact with the man and nurse.
According to the World Health Organization, CCHF's mortality rate is about 30 percent and it is endemic to Africa, the Balkans and Ukraine, the Middle East and Central Asia.
"The case detected in Madrid would be the first in Western Europe with an autochthonous character, so not imported from another geographic area," Madrid's health authority said in the statement.
Authorities in Germany registered a case recently but it was imported from another country outside Western Europe, it said.
People mainly contract the CCHF virus from infected ticks or contact with infected animal blood and tissue, the WHO says, with death normally occurring in the illness's second week. There are no vaccines available to immunize animals.
Human-to-human transmission can result from close contact with the blood or other bodily fluids of an infected person, the WHO says, and health workers are especially vulnerable.
CCHF was first recognised in the Crimea in 1944 and then in the Congo in 1969, the U.S Centre for Disease Control (CDC) says. In 2011, it was detected for the first time in ticks in Spain, but the man's death is the first case of an infection.
COLOMBO (Reuters) - Dozens of Sri Lankan nationalists on Thursday protested against a three-day visit by U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, demanding he leave the island and stop an investigation into alleged abuses at the end of the civil war.
Ban is in Colombo to assess Sri Lanka's efforts to address post war reconciliation.
Sri Lanka, under the ousted leader Mahinda Rajapaksa, crushed the separatist Tamil Tiger rebels in 2009. The United Nations accuses the military of killing thousands of civilians, mostly Tamils, during the final weeks of the 26-year-war.
It agreed last year, through a U.N. resolution, to address the alleged war crimes and make efforts towards reconciliation. The Tamil Tigers were also accused of violating human rights during the conflict.
Ban met Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe on Wednesday and President Maithripala Sirisena on Thursday after addressing a youth conference in southern city of Galle. He is scheduled to visit former northern war zone of Jaffna on Friday.
However, in the capital Colombo, a few fringe nationalist groups, which still back Rajapaksa, protested in front of the U.N. office and main railway station, demanding he leave. Around 60 people took part in each demonstration.
A group of Buddhist monks carried pictures of their members and civilians they said were killed by the rebels during the war carrying banners saying: "U.N., where were you?".
Other group carried banners saying: "We don't want your help. Go home".
Speaking in Galle, Ban said young people needed to help the island emerge from the trauma of deprivations and injustice, and play a part in creating a better future.
"Please continue to prove that Sri Lanka is emerging from decades of adversity, suspicion and divisiveness. Please lead the way towards rebuilding, reconciliation and an appreciation of diversity in unity," Ban told the gathering.
In Jaffna, relatives of people missing, suspected of having been killed or taken to covert detention centres, told Reuters that wanted to meet Ban.
The government estimates there are around 65,000 people missing in the war and another insurrection, with victims' families and rights groups accusing the government of mostly being responsible for their disappearance during the height of the conflict.
"If we have a chance to talk to him, we'll tell what happened to my husband," said Easwary Mariyathas, a mother of three, who said her husband was arrested by the navy in 2009.
"I am pressurised to accept death certificate. We want justice, we expect a definite reply. I want to tell the truth to my kids. I can't cheat them saying their dad will come tomorrow and day after tomorrow."
The prime minister has said there are no longer any secret detention centres. The government has established an office to find missing people.
ABUJA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered police to arrest and make an example of government officials accused of stealing food aid intended for victims of Boko Haram in northeast Nigeria, the president's spokesman said on Thursday.
The Nigerian Senate last week launched an investigation into allegations of food aid being stolen and sold by state officials in Borno state, where aid agencies have warned of starvation, malnutrition and dwindling food supplies for the displaced.
"The president has asked the Inspector General of the police to catch some of these alleged thieves, to look out for them and make public examples of them," Buhari's spokesman, Garba Shehu, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone.
Public outcry was sparked in April when photos posted on social media appeared to show food aid on sale in shops. The items had logos of aid agencies, leading many to believe they had been diverted by state officials in camps for the displaced.
Hundreds of people displaced by Boko Haram militants last week left their camps to stage a protest in Maiduguri, Borno's capital, to demand more aid, accusing officials of stealing food rations.
Protesters said they wanted to receive food aid directly, rather than through state-run feeding committees in the camps.
However, the government of Borno state dismissed the allegations of theft, and said they were politically motivated ahead of general and presidential elections in 2019.
"There are some politicians exploiting the IDP (internally displaced persons) situation for political purposes, by spreading rumours about food stealing," said Isa Gusau, spokesman for the state governor, Kashim Shettima.
"It is radically difficult to divert food," he said, adding that the international aid agencies involved in the distribution of aid would have spoken out if they had noticed any wrongdoing.
The U.N.'s World Food Programme (WFP) last month warned that up to 5.5 million people in Nigeria's northeast might soon need food aid, double the current number, as soaring inflation was pushing up food prices.
Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) said in late July that severely malnourished children are dying in large numbers in the region, where food supplies are close to running out, and warned of "pockets of what is close to a famine".
Nigeria's army, backed by its neighbours, has retaken most territory previously lost to Boko Haram, which launched an insurgency in the northeast seven years ago.
But most of the 2.3 million Nigerians who have fled are afraid to go back and cultivate their fields as the security situation remains volatile.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The United States said on Thursday it was sceptical about Germany's call for a new arms control deal with Russia to avoid an escalation of tensions in Europe, given Moscow's violation of a series of other agreements.
Daniel Baer, the U.S. envoy to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), told Reuters that Washington favours continued dialogue with Russia to enhance transparency, but is wary of entering into any new agreements at this point.
"Our focus will remain on the existing agreements and trying to get them to function they way they ought to be functioning, and continuing to engage on the serious concerns about the issues at hand," Baer said in an interview with Reuters in Berlin ahead of an OSCE meeting in nearby Potsdam.
"In the context of a situation where Russia is violating a bunch of agreements that it's made before, one should approach the idea of any new agreement with some caution," he said.
Baer noted that Russia has suspended its participation in meetings of the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) joint consultative group, and was not abiding by a 1992 open skies agreement or a 1990 Vienna agreement requiring information and mutual inspection of military facilities.
Baer's comments marked a setback for an initiative launched last week by German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the rotating chairman of the OSCE this year, who is urging a new arms control deal with Moscow.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said on Sunday that he supported the German proposal.
Steinmeier argues that a new arms control process would offer a "proven means for transparency, risk avoidance and trust building" after Russia violated non-negotiable principles of peace by its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014.
Speaking ahead of the OSCE meeting in Potsdam on Thursday, Steinmeier told reporters that foreign ministers from 40 of the 57 OSCE member countries in Europe, Central Asia and North America would discuss his proposal as well as the Ukraine crisis, growing terrorist threats and other issues.
"We need intensive debates at a time when trust has obviously been lost between East and West, and between the West and Russia, especially, after the annexation of Crimea and in light of the conflict in eastern Ukraine," Steinmeier said.
Baer said it was critical to achieve a lasting ceasefire in eastern Ukraine's separatist conflict so that Moscow and Kiev could work toward holding free and fair local elections in the region, a pivotal part of the 2015 Minsk peace agreement.
He said Moscow was the "determining variable" in achieving the ceasefire, because only the Kremlin could give the order to withdraw pro-Russian separatist fighters and their equipment from eastern Ukraine.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African President Jacob Zuma is to appeal against a court ruling that corruption charges against him be reinstated, the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) said on Wednesday.
A Zuma spokesman could not immediately confirm that the president had lodged an affidavit through his lawyers with the Supreme Court of Appeal, but the DA included a link to the document in a statement on its website.
The DA has been pursuing the matter in court and so would have access to such documents.
"President Jacob Zuma has this week filed his replying affidavit to the Supreme Court of Appeal," the DA said.
Zuma had been expected to take this route after an earlier appeal was rejected in June by the Pretoria High Court.
In April, a judge ordered a review of a 2009 decision by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to set aside hundreds of charges against Zuma, describing the original ruling as "irrational". That decision allowed Zuma to run for president.
The scandals swirling around Zuma contributed to the worst election showing by the ruling African National Congress (ANC) in local polls this month and have triggered calls for his resignation.
The prospect of corruption charges being reinstated against Zuma follow a damning constitutional court judgment against him in March, which said he breached the law by refusing to refund some of the 240 million rand ($16 million) of state money spent on refurbishing his private residence.
($1 = 14.7086 rand)
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday that the events of the past few weeks have been a concern and the government has taken steps to improve the situation in a bid to avoid destabilising the economy.
An elite police unit is investigating Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan over a suspected surveillance unit set up when he ran the tax service.
In comments to parliament, Ramaphosa said government officials were urging various parties involved in the issue to avoid making "wild and sensational statements". He did not elaborate on what steps were being taken to end the public row.
PARIS (Reuters) - French Finance Minister Michel Sapin, who has also taken on the economy portfolio following the resignation of Emmanuel Macron, confirmed the government's support for state-owned utility EDF's plan to build nuclear reactors in Hinkley Point, Britain.
Macron, who was one of the strongest supporters of the Hinkley Point project in the Socialist government, resigned on Tuesday.
Sapin aid that EDF's board had given its green light for the UK project with the support of the French government.
"It is now up to the UK government to take its responsibilities and I hope it will," Sapin told reporters.
Following EDF's final investment decision on project last month, The British government has said it wanted more time to review it and would decide this autumn.
PHOENIX (Reuters) - Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump vowed on Wednesday that anyone who is in the United States illegally would be subject to deportation if he is elected, sticking with his hardline position after flirting with a softer approach.
In a major speech in the border state of Arizona, Trump took a dim view of the 11 million people who crossed into the United States illegally, a week after saying many were "great people" who had lived in the country for years and contributed to American society.
He said all people in the United States illegally would have "only one route" to gain legal status if Trump were to win the Nov. 8 presidential election: "To return home and apply for re-entry."
"Our message to the world will be this: You cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country," Trump said.
"People will know you can't just smuggle in, hunker down and wait to be legalized," he said. "Those days are over."
Trump again vowed that Mexico would pay for construction of a "great border wall" between the two countries. He spoke hours after Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto told Trump in a face-to-face meeting in Mexico City that Mexico would not pay for it.
"We will build a great wall along the southern border," Trump said. "And Mexico will pay for the wall - 100 percent. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for the wall."
Trump said at a joint news conference with Pena Nieto that he and the Mexican leader did not discuss who would pay for the wall. Pena Nieto remained silent on the issue at the event, but said later on Twitter he did raise the issue.
"At the beginning of the conversation with Donald Trump I made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall," Pena Nieto said in a tweet.
Trump used the Phoenix speech to clarify his stance on illegal immigration after prevaricating on the issue last week. He returned to the hardline rhetoric that powered him to the Republican presidential nomination over 16 rivals, heartening those conservatives drawn to Trump by the issue.
Ann Coulter, a conservative activist who had fretted that Trump might be softening, tweeted: "I hear Churchill had a nice turn of phrase, but Trump's immigration speech is the most magnificent speech ever given."
Correct The Record, an organization supporting Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the Nov.8 presidential election, slammed Trump.
"Tonight confirmed what we knew all along - there is no ‘softening’,” Correct The Record spokeswoman Elizabeth Shappell said.
Trump's "America First" positions are aimed at rallying middle-class people who feel they have lost jobs to illegal immigrants or to the outsourcing of jobs abroad.
However, he may have put himself at risk of limiting his ability to broaden his base of support to include more Hispanic-Americans and more moderate Republican voters who do not think it is possible or practical to crack down on all illegal immigrants.
In his speech, Trump emphasized that his priority would be to quickly deport those among the undocumented population who have committed serious crimes.
"As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities," Trump said. "Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation. That is what it means to have a country."
He said he would form a commission to study which regions or countries he would suspend immigration from, saying Syria and Libya would be high on his list. This would be his way of carrying out his proposed ban on Muslims from some countries without getting into their religious affiliation.
Trump said he would also establish a "deportation task force" to identify criminals subject to deportation, would triple the number of federal deportation officers, and increase the number of border patrol stations.
Trump is trailing Clinton in opinion polls and the New York businessman's aides hoped the trip would make him look presidential and show he was willing to deal head-on with  thorny issues such as relations with Mexico.
Pena Nieto said at the joint news conference with Trump in Mexico City that the many millions of Mexicans in the United States deserved respect. However, he offered only a mild rebuke of Trump for his rhetoric.
"The Mexican people has felt aggrieved by comments that have been made, but I was sure his interest in building a relationship is genuine," Pena Nieto said.
A few dozen demonstrators gathered beneath a monument to Mexican independence in the center of the capital to protest against the visit, some holding placards emblazoned with captions such as: "You are not Wall-come" and "Trump and Pena out."
Trump has been pilloried in Mexico since he launched his White House campaign last year.
Clinton, a former secretary of state, said on Wednesday Trump could not paper over his previous harsh language against Mexico.
"It certainly takes more than trying to make up for more than a year of insults and insinuations by dropping in on our neighbors for a few hours and then flying home again," she told a convention of the American Legion military veterans' group in Cincinnati.
MANILA (Reuters) - The Philippine government made another attack on Thursday on a senator who is leading an inquiry into a spate of killings unleashed by President Rodrigo Duterte's "war on drugs", saying evidence she was linked to drugs was "overflowing".
Senator Leila de Lima has denounced the government's attacks on her as "madness" and she has appealed to Duterte to stop the string of bizarre accusations and insults against her.
On Thursday, she denounced government "harassment" of her and said it was fabricating evidence against her.
About 2,400 people have been killed in Duterte's drug war since he came to power two months ago, according to police figures. Police say the toll is a result of drug dealers resisting arrest or gang feuds.
De Lima set up a Senate inquiry into the killings and held the first hearings last month.
Justice Minister Vitaliano Aguirre told reporters two former members of de Lima's staff and a third person, a prisoner in a  penitentiary, had made sworn statements linking the senator to the drug trade.
"What they have provided is volunteered information," Aguirre said. "It is not true that the evidence are being manufactured against her. These information are just overflowing."
De Lima was justice minister for six years in former President Benigno Aquino's government and won a seat as a senator in May elections.
She told Reuters in an interview this week she had no fears for her life because it would be clear who was to blame if anything happened to her, but she had been warned by people close to Duterte to stop questioning the extra-judicial killings.
Duterte won the May election on a promise to wipe out drugs and dealers.
ANKARA (Reuters) - A group of Kurdish politicians and activists in Turkey said on Thursday they would start a hunger strike next week to demand the right to visit the jailed the Kurdish PKK militant leader, who has been isolated since a peace process collapsed last year.
Abdullah Ocalan, who was jailed in 1999, has not been allowed visits by pro-Kurdish lawmakers since April 2015. The leader of the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has also not seen any family members since 2014 or his lawyers since 2011.
The PKK has been waging an insurgency seeking autonomy for the southeast region of Turkey for more than three decades. It has claimed responsibility for a spate of attacks since a two-year ceasefire deal broke down last year.
A group of 50 people, mostly activists and up to four lawmakers from the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), would refuse food from Monday unless Ocalan was allowed visits, a politician from a Kurdish umbrella organisation told Reuters.
"We demand the lifting of isolation imposed on Ocalan. Our strike will continue until a meeting with Ocalan is provided," said a politician from the pro-Kurdish Democratic Regions Party.
Pervin Buldan, a senior HDP parliamentarian, said three or four lawmakers from the party would join the hunger strike by the group in Turkey's largest Kurdish city Diyarbakir.
Ocalan is serving his life sentence in an island prison in Turkey's northwestern Marmara Sea.
Last week, a suicide truck bombing at a police headquarters in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast killed at least 11 people, two days after Turkey launched an incursion in northern Syria against Islamic State and Kurdish militia fighters.
The PKK said on its website that the truck bombing was in retaliation for Ocalan's "continued isolation" and lack of information about his welfare. It warned of more attacks.
The PKK is listed as a terrorist group by Turkey, the European Union and the United States.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Areas of Syria's Hama province captured by Syrian insurgents came under heavy air attack on Thursday as government forces sought to counter a major rebel assault in an area of strategic importance to President Bashar al-Assad.
The rebel thrust in Hama marks a new challenge to Assad and his allies in a part of Syria where he has tried to consolidate his grip on power against a more than five-year-old insurgency.
The attack that began on Tuesday is the biggest coordinated rebel offensive in Hama province since 2014, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group.
The Observatory said at least 25 people including six children had been killed in the air strikes overnight.
Syrian state television said the air force had carried out "concentrated strikes" against what it described as terrorists in the area, saying tens of them had been killed.
An official in one of the rebel factions waging the attack, Jaish al-Nasr, said both Syrian and Russian jets were involved in what he described as heavy air strikes. Russia has been bombing anti-Assad forces for almost a year.
The rebel groups taking part include the jihadist Jund al-Aqsa and factions fighting under the banner of the Free Syrian Army (FSA). Jaish al-Nasr, one of the FSA groups, said in a statement released overnight that two commanders and three other of its combatants had been killed in the Hama battles.
Rebels have captured a number of towns and villages in the attack. The targeted area is populated by Christians and Alawites loyal to the government and is close to the mountain heartland of Assad's Alawite sect.
The Observatory said the air strike that killed 25 people hit a road between the town of al-Latamenah and Idlib province, an area of northwestern Syria mostly under insurgent control.
A Syrian military source said the air force had destroyed dozens of insurgent vehicles and the militants riding in them on a road from al-Latamenah to Idlib.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Syria's opposition plans to unveil its plans for a political transition to help end the country's five-year war at a meeting of ministers in London next week, a delegate said.
In emailed comments to Reuters, Hind Kabawat, a member of Syria's main opposition group, the High Negotiations Committee, said the delegation would give a detailed vision for Syria.
This would include the formation of a transitional governing body with full executive powers, she said.
Other details would include the length of the transition period, a mechanism to ensure fair representation of minorities and plans for the reform and reconstitution of state institutions, Kabawat said.
Syria's war shows little sign of stopping after five and a half years in which up to 400,000 have died and half of Syria's population has been uprooted.
The formation of a transitional governing body has been a key area of disagreement in the stalled U.N.-mediated peace talks, since it implies an end to the monopoly on power enjoyed by President Bashar al-Assad.
Although a political transition, including elections and a new constitution, was agreed in a U.N. Security Council resolution, Assad's government has said his future is not up for discussion, but has proposed the establishment of a national unity government by consensus.
The opposition says Assad and his closest allies can have no role in Syria's future.
A huge resurgence of violence means peace talks in Geneva have been on hold since the end of April, and U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura has repeatedly said that Syria needs a halt in the fighting before talks can resume.
Kabawat said the opposition would press foreign ministers in London to take the steps needed to restore the diplomatic process, and to hold Assad's government accountable for the use of chemical weapons in Syria.
"The reality is the international community is failing Syrian civilians, most recently in Aleppo, Daraya, and Moadamiya; where we have seen no real steps will to protect civilians or break the sieges," she said.
DAR ES SALAAM (Reuters) - Tanzania's main opposition party has suspended protests scheduled for Thursday, to give time for negotiations with the government that has called its planned demonstrations illegal.
President John Magufuli said in July he would crack down on troublemakers "without mercy" after the opposition CHADEMA party called for nationwide demonstrations on Sep. 1.
Magufuli, nicknamed "the bulldozer" for pushing through his policies, has won some praise from Western donors for anti-corruption drives and curbing wasteful government spending since coming to power in November.
But opponents accused him of becoming increasingly authoritarian, undermining democracy by curbing political activity and restricting live TV coverage of parliamentary sessions.
CHADEMA said it was heeding calls from religious leaders to postpone its "day of defiance" for a month to give clerics time to hold talks with Magufuli and plead with him to give opposition parties more democratic space.
"The nationwide rallies and demonstrations planned for Sept. 1 have been suspended to allow religious leaders to resolve this issue through dialogue," CHADEMA's national chairman, Freeman Mbowe, told journalists.
"If efforts by our religious leaders do not bear fruit ... we will hold our planned peaceful demonstrations on Oct. 1."
Opposition leaders said the ban on demonstrations was unconstitutional. Authorities, though, say the police have legal powers to outlaw protests for security reasons.
Since its independence in 1961, Tanzania has avoided a violent change of power and the civil wars that have bedevilled some of its neighbours in volatile east and central Africa.
Analysts, however, say the stalemate over the banned protests risked triggering instability.
Police in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday took in Mbowe and four other CHADEMA leaders for questioning but released them without charge several hours later.
BANGKOK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A Thai court on Wednesday sentenced a man to 35 years in prison for trafficking ethnic Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar, in a high-profile case that led to the discovery of jungle camps, mass graves and an international trafficking ring.
On Jan. 11, 2015, police intercepted five vehicles at a checkpoint in Hua Sai district of Nakhon Si Thammarat province, discovering 98 "very thin and tired men, women and children".
Of the group, 42 were boys and girls younger than 14, and one Rohingya was dead.
Sunand, also known as Ko Mit Saengthong, was arrested in connection with this case. Police evidence against him included data from mobile phones seized from the drivers of the vehicles and bank transactions linking him to a trafficking syndicate.
On Wednesday, a court in southern Nakhon Si Thammarat province found Sunand guilty of human trafficking, enslavement, and harbouring aliens, according to human rights lawyer Janjira Janpaew, who has been monitoring the case.
In addition to the prison sentence, Sunand was fined 660,000 baht (14,486 pounds).
"We didn't think that the court was going to come down this hard, with 35 years. The punishment was more than we had expected," Janjira told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by telephone.
Two other defendants in the case, Suriya Yodrak and Warachai Chadathong, were found guilty of illegally bringing aliens into Thailand and sentenced to a year in prison. The court reduced the sentence of Suriya, who pleaded guilty, to six months.
The Rohingya face persecution and poverty in Myanmar, and after deadly religious violence erupted there in 2012, tens of thousands began fleeing by boat in an effort to get to Malaysia.
Human traffickers, taking advantage of the lucrative smuggling operations, began holding the Rohingya for ransom in crude camps hidden in the jungle along the Thai-Malaysia border.
The discovery of the mass graves spurred a massive crackdown by authorities, effectively halting the smuggling boats.
There are at least eight other court cases related to the Rohingya trafficking rings, according to the Migrant Working Group, which is monitoring the cases.
One of the major ongoing trials includes at least 88 defendants and some 500 witnesses.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German police said a misunderstanding led to a security breach that prompted the evacuation of Frankfurt airport's Terminal 1 and caused delays and flight cancellations at Europe's fourth largest airport on Wednesday.
The alert was sparked when security staff at the terminal, a major hub for international travel and home to Lufthansa, requested police officers come over to check a suspicious female passenger.
Before the police could arrive, the passenger, who had two small children with her, had quickly left, a police spokesman said.
The passenger apparently thought the security check had finished and that's why she left, the spokesman said, declining to provide further details of what had raised the suspicions of security staff.
As a preventative measure, the police then took the decision to evacuate the entire departure area, which they later declared as secure, allowing operations to start again at 1030 GMT. All passengers were asked to go through the security check again.
The security breach interrupted flight operations, delaying departures and forcing some planes to divert to other German airports instead.
Airport operator Fraport said just over 100 flights were cancelled due to the evacuation.
Lufthansa was not immediately able to say how many of its flights were affected by the evacuation, but a spokesman said  there could be isolated delays and cancellations on Thursday too as the carrier worked to get planes and crew back on schedule.
In a similar incident, a Spanish man was arrested at Cologne-Bonn airport in May after bypassing the security check, also leading to flight delays.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Dubai, a tourist destination synonymous with shopping malls and luxury resorts, aims to add high culture to its attractions as it opens an opera house in the shadow of the world's tallest building.
The 2,000-seat Dubai Opera welcomes its first guests on Wednesday night with a performance by Spanish tenor Placido Domingo. In coming months, performers from around the world will stage operas, ballets, concerts, musicals and a magic show there.
Built in the shape of a dhow - a type of wooden boat common in the Gulf for centuries - the glass-and-steel opera house is located in the glitzy downtown district next to the Burj Khalifa, at 829.8 metres (2,722 feet) the world's tallest skyscraper.
Project developer Emaar Properties, part-owned by the Dubai government, has declined to say how much it cost.
Dubai Opera's chief executive Jasper Hope told DubaiEye 1038FM radio that bookings for performances had been received from as far as the United States and Australia.
Other oil-exporting states in the region have also sought to attract visitors with high-profile cultural projects. Oman opened an opera house in 2011, Bahrain opened one of the Middle East's largest theatres in 2012 and Abu Dhabi is building a branch of the Louvre museum.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece's left-led government launched an auction of four nationwide TV licences on Tuesday, defying protests by broadcasters which have criticised the process as an attempt to control media in the crisis-hit country.
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' government says the move will help bring order to a sector mired in debt and discredited because of its political links. Broadcasters, who have mounted a legal challenge to the process, say it is an attempt to muzzle them.
Greece has eight TV channels broadcasting nationwide, meaning four will have to suspend operations after the licensing process is completed. The starting price for bids was set at 3 million euros.
Bidders include the operators of most existing channels, among them Skai TV owner Yannis Alafouzos and the Vardinogiannis family, which owns channel STAR. Four new companies are also set to bid, including Dimera Media Investments Ltd of Russian-born Greek businessman Ivan Savvidis, who also owns the PAOK soccer club, and Alter Ego, owned by Greek ship owner Evangelos Marinakis.
Representatives of each bidder were on lockdown at the Press Ministry to ensure no leaks in a process likely to continue for two days. One of the representatives was seen carrying in a mattress and mobile phones were banned.
The auction process will see the price for a licence increase in increments of 500,000 euros from the 3 million euro starting level until there are only two contenders left, who will then submit sealed final bids.
Existing operators who fail to secure a licence will have 90 days before going off air, the government said.
"Frankly, this whole process is a mess and we have real concern that it's preventing free competition in the private sector," said one TV executive, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"It's another unfortunate example of the government using extraordinary measures to take more control of the country’s media."
The Greek government has brushed off the criticism.
It says current TV stations are operating illegally because their licences were not acquired through a tender, and that media businesses have not paid their share to the cash-strapped state.
The government says media along with business and political elites formed a triangle of power that lay at the root of Greece's financial problems.
"After 27 years, an auction conducted in a fully legal and transparent way will bring order to a TV landscape with a key role in forming political life in this country for years," said Nikos Syrmalenios, a lawmaker for Tsipras' ruling Syriza party.
"It should be viewed as a positive development ... despite the protests and the objections."
A Skai TV video mocked the conditions in which the auction process was held, describing it as "a reality show" aimed at distracting the public from economic hardship.
Leading private channel MEGA TV, which employs hundreds of people, did not qualify to bid because it has not settled loan issues.
"The government's decision to reduce the number of private broadcasting networks to just four is a way in fact to close down private channels that are not friendly to the government," said Manolis Kapsis, news director at MEGA.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Moscow's claim that Russian air strikes in Syria had killed prominent Islamic State leader Abu Muhammad al-Adnani is false, U.S. defence officials told Reuters on Wednesday.
"Russia's claim is a joke," one of the U.S. defence officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The Pentagon on Tuesday said it had targeted Adnani, who Islamic State has said was killed in Aleppo province.
ALMATY (Reuters) - An Uzbek state television presenter on Wednesday read out the Independence Day address traditionally delivered by President Islam Karimov, who has been in hospital since Saturday following a brain haemorrhage.
Karimov's daughter said earlier on Wednesday he was recovering, countering reports of his death by some media, while the Tashkent government cancelled some holiday events such as a Wednesday concert and a Thursday fireworks show.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - The chairman of Kenya's anti-graft body said on Wednesday he had quit after lawmakers recommended removing him from office over an alleged conflict of interest between his family business and another state-run agency.
Kenyan media reported parliament's Justice and Legal Affairs Committee wanted lawmakers to ask President Uhuru Kenyatta to set up a tribunal to force out Philip Kinisu.
The committee had accused Kinisu of a conflict of interest in his family company's dealings with state-run National Youth Service, which the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) that he leads was investigating over lost money.
Kinisu denied any wrongdoing by him or the company.
"At the same time, I am mindful that significant resources and attention are being expended by the state and public on deliberating these matters rather than to the fight against corruption," he said in a statement announcing his resignation.
Kenya has a history of corruption scandals that have failed to result in high-profile convictions, angering the public who say it demonstrates top officials can act with impunity and encourages graft by ordinary employees.
Faced with a growing public outcry last year, Kenyatta promised to root corruption out of the government. Five ministers stepped aside in 2015 after they faced investigations and then lost their jobs in a reshuffle. Two former ministers face trial proceedings.
Kinisu took up his position in January.
The EACC is an independent state-funded institution, whose head is nominated by the president and vetted by parliament.
Kinisu's predecessor, Mumo Matemu - who also quit - had faced allegations of incompetence that he denied, but said he was resigning for the sake of the campaign against corruption.
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - The reputation of the Karolinska Institute, one of Sweden's top hospitals that awards the Nobel prize for medicine, has been badly damaged by allegations patients died as a result of a surgeon performing experimental operations without clearance, an official report said.
Criticism of the Karolinska Institute, which had employed Italian surgeon Paolo Macchiarini, led to the resignation of the secretary of the Nobel Committee at the Institute in February and to calls for the award to be scrapped this year and next.
Bjorn Hurtig, a Swedish lawyer who represents Macchiarini, could not immediately be reached for comment on the report. In the past, Macchiarini has denied any wrongdoing.
Macchiarini was fired in March when Karolinska said he had supplied false information on his CV and was guilty of scientific negligence after two of his patients died. Swedish prosecutors are investigating Macchiarini on suspicion of gross criminal negligence leading to another person's death.
"Patients have been injured, even died," said Kjell Asplund, head of the Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics, who headed the investigation commissioned by the institute.
"Employees have suffered as has clinical research as a whole. What is needed are long term, wholehearted efforts to restore trust."
In February this year, Karolinska launched a fresh enquiry into misconduct allegations, leading four professors at the Nobel Academy to step down from the prize committee while it proceeded.
Bo Risberg, former head of the ethics committee at Karolinska, has called for the Nobel medicine prize to be put on ice for two years and for prize money to be used to compensate the relatives of the patients Macchiarini operated on.
A world-renowned surgeon, Macchiarini was employed as a researcher into stem cell biology at the Karolinska Institute and consultant at Karolinska University Hospital in 2010.
The investigation centred on three operations conducted between 2011 and 2012 in which Macchiarini transplanted synthetic tracheas coated with stem cells into patients.
Asplund said Macchiarini performed the operations before sufficient study had been done on the procedure and that the operations could not be justified on the grounds of being life-saving.
Two of the patients have since died while the third remains hospitalized.
"The investigation has highlighted serious mistakes in the way the three patients were treated and serious flaws in the hospital's routines, system and culture," hospital director Melvin Samsom said in a statement.
In 2014, Macchiarini was accused of scientific misconduct by colleagues who claim he presented too uncritical an interpretation of  the results of his research. After an internal investigation Karolinska cleared him from the allegations.
Karolinska also investigated allegations published in Vanity Fair that he had lied on his CV. It concluded that the document contained several falsehoods, "although none so serious as to justify his dismissal or resignation".
BEIRUT (Reuters) - A brigadier general from Iran's Revolutionary Guards had been killed during fighting in Aleppo, Iranian news sites reported Wednesday
Ahmad Ghulami was killed on Tuesday by "takfiri terrorists", a label used by Shi'ite Muslims to describe Sunni Muslim militants, according to the Tasnim news site.
Iran and its Shi'ite allies, which include fighters from Afghanistan ad Lebanon’s Hezbollah, are fighting to support Syrian President Bashar al Assad while Saudi Arabia, Turkey and some Gulf states are funding opposition fighters.
Iran has announced the death of half a dozen generals in Syria, and a much larger number of less senior officers since 2012.
A report by the Washington Institute for Near East Policy in March this year said that 342 Iranians have died fighting in Syria since January 2012.
Ghulami was a commander during the 1980s Iran-Iraq war and took part in several well-known battles, Tasnim reported. He had retired before heading to Syria.
"Because of the great deal of experience he had in military matters he went to Syria and Iraq and took over the responsibility for training some of the resistance forces," Akbar Baqeri Dolabi, a military colleague, told Tasnim.
TEL AVIV (Reuters) - In Israel, where it is fair to say Muslims and Jews do not always agree, there is shared confusion and surprise at events across the Mediterranean: the push by French mayors to ban full-body swimsuits, or "burkinis", on beaches.
France's highest administrative court ruled against the ban on Friday, but mayors in several beachfront towns have said they will defy the edict, determined to stop swimwear designed to be Islam-compliant appearing in public.
It is a policy that has drawn some popular support while provoking outrage and ridicule, with editorialists playing up the irony of a liberal country challenging the strictures of Islam by telling women what they cannot wear.
In Israel, there may be profound ideological and political differences between the Jewish population and the near 20-percent Muslim minority, but it has never come down to banning someone's dress on the basis of religion.
"It is very funny that people think they are so liberal and open and yet they cannot stand other religions and the feelings of other people," said Ruti Solomon, an Israeli Jewish woman enjoying the sunshine on the beach in Tel Aviv.
Behind her, Muslim women with their bodies and heads fully covered in burkini-like clothing played in the water or relaxed on the sand, with the church spires and mosque minarets of the town of Jaffa in the near distance.
"I've heard what's happening in Europe," said Shams al-Duha Alayyan, a fully-covered young Muslim woman visiting the coast from Jerusalem. "This is personal freedom. If I want to cover my body, why can't I cover my body?"
Of course, Israel has its quirks, too. The ultra-Orthodox Jewish population enjoys the seaside as much as anyone else. But they keep separate, not only having segregated beaches but alternating the bathing days for men and women.
North of Tel Aviv, it was women's day at an ultra-Orthodox beach on Tuesday. Busloads of visitors arrived in full-body swimwear and went down to the beachfront via a security gate, with high fencing all around to keep out prying eyes.
Anat Yahav is the chief executive of SunWay UV Clothing, an Israeli company that supplies modest swimwear to Jews and Muslims in Israel and beyond. Muslim women generally prefer swimsuits with a head covering and Jewish women full-body suits without one, she says.
Either way, business is strong and she cannot understand why the French have decided to kick up such a fuss.
"When I see what's happening in France, I think we're very sane here," she said with a laugh.
France's move against burkinis follows a series of deadly attacks by Islamist militants that has put the nation on edge. While Israeli beachgoers sympathised about the need to tighten security, they warned against missing the target.
"In France ... it is a big problem right now," said Shiran Rokban, a sunbather in Tel Aviv. "They have to deal with the real thing, not with the burkini and all these things on the beach."
ZURICH (Reuters) - Friction between Switzerland and the European Union over the bloc's plans to tighten gun control following a rise in militant attacks could turn into another serious snag in ties already tested by Swiss efforts to curb immigration.
The proposed directive, which applies to non-EU member Switzerland only because it is part of Europe's Schengen open border system, has raised hackles among the Swiss, who resent intervention from Brussels.
Christoph Blocher, a leading voice of the Swiss right and a eurosceptic, says Switzerland should consider abandoning Europe's Schengen system of passport-free travel if the Swiss people rejected the proposed measures in a referendum.
Drafted after militants killed scores in attacks in Paris last year, the EU plans on gun control aimed to curb online weapons sales and impose more restrictions on assault weapons.
But the initial proposal provoked an outcry in Switzerland because it meant a ban on the long Swiss tradition of ex-soldiers keeping their assault rifles.
Then, two months ago, Justice Minister Simonetta Sommaruga returned from meetings in Brussels saying she had successfully negotiated against such a ban. But the fine print was more complicated: EU members demanded concessions including psychological tests and club membership.
Swiss gun rights proponents are now complaining this could disarm thousands of law-abiding citizens and that it would encroach on Switzerland's heritage and national identity that includes a well-armed citizenry.
"When conflicts arise, Switzerland must put its sovereignty first," said Blocher, a businessman and vice president of the SVP, which is the country's biggest party. "In an emergency, Switzerland should be ready to exit Schengen."
Switzerland has one of the highest rates of private gun ownership in Europe, with nearly 48 percent of households owning a gun. In France, there are about 30 weapons per 100 people, while the figure in the Great Britain is far lower, at 6.7 guns per 100 civilians, according to the Australian-based think tank GunPolicy.org.
However, Swiss gun-related crime is low and the high number of privately owned guns harks back to a long tradition of self-defence and to the Swiss policy of near-universal conscription.
In 2015, 11 percent of the 20,600 soldiers who left the Swiss Army opted to keep their assault rifles which upon departure are modified to fire single shots. The number of soldiers choosing to keep their weapons has been declining for several years.
Switzerland's grassroots gun lobby ProTELL, named after the 14th-century folk hero William Tell, said it will take the matter to voters if the European gun restrictions result in stricter ownership standards on Swiss soil.
Under Switzerland's system of direct democracy, groups like ProTELL can gather signatures and put such matters before voters.
"With our direct democracy, Swiss people are accustomed to having the last word," said ProTell's Dominik Riner. "We're opposed to any and all efforts to make current weapons laws more restrictive."
The gun control issue comes as Switzerland's EU ties are strained on multiple fronts.
The two sides are negotiating immigration curbs after Swiss voters in 2014 backed quotas on European workers. A failure to agree could mean the collapse of bilateral accords with Swiss' main trading partner.
Outlines of any deal may emerge when European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker visits on Sept. 19, but the clock is ticking: Switzerland has said it may enact unilateral curbs by February 2017.
Europe plans to finalise its gun directive later this year.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Nine people were killed when floods inundated an old people's home in Japan, police said on Wednesday, taking the death toll from a typhoon battering northern parts of the country to at least 11.
Police found nine bodies on Wednesday in the nursing home in the town of Iwaizumi, in Iwate Prefecture in the north of Japan's main island of Honshu, but it was not clear when their home was flooded.
It was also not clear why people there had not been taken to safety before the storm struck. The nursing home is located near a river and was partially buried in mud and debris when the river overflowed its banks.
"The area is in a state of chaos. We are not sure what preparations the facility had taken," said a prefectural government official who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media.
The town issued evacuation preparation information on Tuesday morning, which is to inform elderly or disabled people who take time to evacuate. That, however, was not as strong as an evacuation warning, according to another prefecture official.
More than 1,000 other people were forced from their homes by the flooding brought by Typhoon Lionrock.
The body of a man was also found near a river in Iwaizumi and a dead woman was found in Kuji city, police said.
Television pictures showed flooded rivers with cars and homes partly submerged, while rescuers picked up stranded people by helicopter.
Several people were also missing on the northern island of Hokkaido, police said.
Iwate, the worst-hit prefecture, was devastated by a massive earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia called on Turkey to avoid strikes in Syria on opposition and ethnic groups, including Kurds, who fight Islamic State, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told a news briefing on Wednesday.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's Defence Ministry said on Wednesday that Russian air strikes in Syria had killed one of Islamic State's most prominent leaders, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani.
The ministry said that Adnani was one of up to 40 rebels killed on Tuesday by air strikes carried out by a Russian Su-34 bomber in Maaratat-Umm Khaush in Aleppo province.
Islamic State said on Tuesday Adnani had been killed in what appeared to be an U.S. air strike in Syria. A U.S. defence official told Reuters the United States targeted Adnani in a strike but stopped short of confirming his death.
Russia's Defence Ministry said Adnani's killing by the Russian air strike had been confirmed "through several intelligence channels".
Islamic State's Amaq News Agency reported on Tuesday that Adnani was killed "while surveying the operations to repel the military campaigns against Aleppo".
ANKARA (Reuters) - Kurdish militia fighters in northern Syria will remain a target for Turkish forces as long as they are positioned west of the Euphrates river, Turkey's presidential spokesman said on Wednesday.
Turkey has not agreed any truce with Kurdish militias in Syria, spokesman Ibrahim Kalin told a news conference. He said President Tayyip Erdogan was concerned by increasing attacks near the Syrian city of Aleppo and was making diplomatic efforts to achieve a ceasefire there.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's week-long incursion into northern Syria aims to clear Islamic State fighters from a 90 km (56-mile) stretch of territory along the Turkish border, President Tayyip Erdogan's spokesman said on Wednesday.
Ibrahim Kalin also told a news conference that Erdogan was expected to hold talks with U.S. President Barack Obama at a G20 meeting in September about a Turkish request to extradite U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, who Ankara says masterminded last month's failed coup.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey will press on with its offensive in northern Syria until all threats are removed and the nation's national security is guaranteed, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Wednesday.
Turkey launched an incursion into Syria a week ago, saying it aimed to drive away Islamic State and prevent Kurdish militias seizing more territory near the Turkish border. Clashes with Kurdish-aligned militias that have U.S. backing have raised tensions with NATO ally Washington.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - The U.S. air strike believed to have killed Abu Mohammad al-Adnani has deprived Islamic State of the architect of its attacks on the West, as it faces the loss of swathes of its heartlands.
One of the last survivors of the al Qaeda militants who originally formed Islamic State last decade in Iraq, including its self-appointed caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, Adnani had risen to become one of its most influential leaders.
"It's a major morale and propaganda blow to the group because it shows that their top leadership is being targeted by an effective and organised chain," Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool, spokesman for the joint operations command of Iraq's army, told Reuters in Baghdad.
Not only did Adnani orchestrate Islamic State's propaganda effort, an undertaking at the heart of its quest to lay waste modern nation states, but he also served as one of its principle military planners.
If his death is confirmed, those skills will be hard to replace, even in a group as resilient as Islamic State, after a series of territorial losses and killings of top leaders.
In recent months Islamic State's losses in Iraq have mounted. Fallujah has fallen in the west and Iraqi forces have captured key approaches to Mosul, the ancient Tigris city whose fall in 2014 signalled the group's lightning rise.
Meanwhile, advances by a U.S.-backed coalition in Syria have all but cut Islamic State off from the Turkish border, after the loss of the key town of Manbij, and started to press into its Euphrates valley heartland.
Few people expect further advances against Islamic State to be rapid or straightforward, but the group's enemies have built a clear momentum in both Iraq and Syria that has pushed it to adopt a strategy of attacks overseas.
Adnani was the man behind that policy, demonstrating an ideological and tactical flexibility that allowed the group first to capitalise on its seizure of land, and then to adapt as it was forced to retreat.
In doing so, Islamic State has made a switch in emphasis from its dreams of unifying all Muslims under a single, militant caliphate, to an older jihadist strategy of striking terror into its enemies by attacking them in their own countries.
But it has done this partly by harnessing shock tactics and social media to inspire and guide attacks by radicalised amateurs, rather than rely solely upon the highly trained but cumbersome militant cells of an earlier era. This, in part, was Adnani's legacy.
Islamic State said on Tuesday Adnani was killed "while surveying the operations to repel the military campaigns against Aleppo. It pledged to avenge his death but did not disclose details on how he died or who was killed with him.
A U.S. defence official told Reuters the United States targeted Adnani on Tuesday in a strike on a vehicle travelling in the Syrian town of al-Bab. He stopped short of confirming Adnani's death, however. Such U.S. assessments often take days and often lag behind official announcements by militant groups.
Adnani's presence in the Aleppo countryside may reflect its strategic and symbolic importance to Islamic State. The northwest has become both the most active theatre of Syria's war and an arena for competing regional and global powers.
The government and mainstream rebel groups, which between them hold most of Syria's western, most populous, regions, have focused on their battle for control of Aleppo, Syria's biggest city before the war, and a strategic prize.
But to the north and east, a secondary conflict has played out as U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters and Turkey-backed rebels, who are also fighting each other, have squeezed IS's once expansive tracts along the Turkish border and Euphrates basin.
These advances have all but cut off Islamic State from its last foothold on the Turkish border, its link to new foreign recruits, while a steady push from the north has brought its enemies to within 30km (18 miles) of its Syrian capital Raqqa.
But these strategic setbacks are not Islamic State's only interest in the Aleppo countryside: just 30km northwest of al-Bab, where Adnani was reportedly killed in an airstrike after arriving to tour the battlefield, is the village of Dabiq.
A few streets surrounded by fields, it will be the site, says Islamic prophecy, of a final battle between Muslims and infidels that will herald the apocalypse.
So important is this event in Islamic State propaganda, of which Adnani was the chief, that Dabiq was the name chosen for its online magazine that sought to inspire new recruits to its militant cause and instruct them in the ways of global jihad.
Hammered by two years of U.S.-led coalition air strikes and military losses on the ground, Adnani increasingly called in audio messages for attacks against the United States and Western countries. His group said it was behind deadly attacks in Paris, Nice and Brussels.
The shift was partly born of tactical necessity after Western and regional governments made it harder for would-be militants to travel to Syria or Iraq to join the group.
"If the tyrants close the door of migration in your faces, then open the door of jihad in theirs and turn their actions against them," he said in an audio clip.
Born in 1977 as Taha Subhi Falaha in Syria's Idlib Province southwest of Aleppo, he pledged allegiance to Islamic State's predecessor, al Qaeda, more than a decade ago and was once imprisoned by U.S. forces in Iraq.
He left Syria to travel to Iraq to fight U.S. forces there after its 2003 invasion, and only returned to his homeland after the start of its own civil war in 2011, a person who knew his family said. A biography posted on militant websites says he grew up with a "love of mosques" and was a prolific reader.
A U.S. counter-terrorism official who monitors Islamic State said Adnani's death would hurt the militants "in the area that increasingly concerns us as the group loses more and more of its caliphate and its financial base ... and turns to mounting and inspiring more attacks in Europe, Southeast Asia and elsewhere".
Hisham al-Hashimi, a Baghdad-based security analyst that advises the Iraqi government on IS affairs: said:`As a military target, Adnani is less important than (ex war minister Omar) al-Shishani...(killed earlier this year in Iraq). His death is mainly a blow to their morale, he is the one who inspires the fighters to join in Syria.’’
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's presidential spokesman said on Wednesday it was unacceptable that European states had not sent high-level officials to visit Turkey since a failed coup attempt, speaking after several lower level European trips in recent weeks.
Ties between Turkey and the EU have become more strained since a failed coup last month that led Turkey to purge state institutions of suspected coup sympathizers. EU states have urged restraint, drawing criticism from Turkey who said they failed to appreciate the threat posed by those behind the plot.
Ibrahim Kalin, the spokesman for President Tayyip Erdogan, also told news briefing he welcomed Russia's decision to restart charter flights, after Ankara patched up strained relations with Moscow.
YANGON (Reuters) - Human rights advocates have called on Myanmar to investigate the  death of a young woman from the country's persecuted Rohingya Muslim minority, who died this month after being found naked and unconscious near a military base.
The woman, identified as Raysuana, 25, was found by a road next to an army compound in Sittwe, the capital of the conflict-torn Rakhine State in western Myanmar, residents and rights group Amnesty International said.
She had gone missing while walking in an area where more than 100,000 Rohingya have been living in camps since Sittwe was roiled by communal violence in 2012, Amnesty said in a statement late on Tuesday.
Most of the displaced are Rohingya Muslims, a group that many in Buddhist-majority Myanmar regard as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. The stateless Rohingya are prevented from moving freely and their access to healthcare and education is restricted.
Hla Myint, a Rohingya administrator, told Reuters he was called by a corporal from an army artillery unit and asked to collect the unconscious Raysuana early on Aug. 18.
"She was still breathing when I saw her, but she was lying on the ground. There were no clothes on her body (apart from a bra) but someone had covered her with a blanket," Hla Myint said.
She was taken to a village clinic where attendants noticed bruising on her neck and bleeding from her vagina, Hla Myint said.
The woman died that evening, he said.
Residents of conflict-plagued ethnic minority regions and human rights workers have for years accused Myanmar troops of rights abuses including rape. The Myanmar army routinely dismisses such accusations.
Government and military spokesmen were not immediately available for comment on the latest case. A police officer in the area said the woman had died of natural causes.
The military ruled Myanmar with an iron first for almost 50 years until it began stepping back from politics in 2011, paving the way for an election last year swept by democracy champion Aung San Suu Kyi. It retains a powerful role in politics.
If soldiers were found to have been involved in harming the Rohingya woman, it could set back a new push by the military to change its image into a responsible partner in a democratic transition.
A Rohingya aid worker in the area who declined to be identified told Reuters he saw Raysuana after she was taken to the small, ill-equipped clinic.
"She was still alive but she couldn't speak," the aid worker said, adding that women on the scene suspected Raysuana had been raped.
No autopsy was performed on the body - which was buried by the woman's family - and authorities did not investigate the death, Hla Myint and the aid worker said.
"Amnesty International calls on the Myanmar authorities to immediately initiate an investigation into the death and alleged rape of Raysuana, ensuring that it is independent, impartial and effective," said the group.
Yan Naing Latt, a major with Sittwe police, said a murder  investigation had not been launched.
We didn't open a murder case because it's just a normal death," he said, but could not explain what may have caused the woman's death.
In what was seen as an attempt by the military to change its reputation for impunity in abuse cases, last month it said that troops had killed five villagers in the north of the country and sent the troops to a military court. [L4N1A63AJ]
ANKARA (Reuters) - The number of visitors to Turkey fell by more than a third in July, as a suspected Islamic State attack on Istanbul airport and a failed military coup battered its already fragile tourist industry.
The sector had already been hit by the diplomatic fallout with Moscow over a downed jet, which saw Russian tourists boycott Turkey, and a series of other bombings which discouraged foreign visitors.
Ankara's launched a rapprochement with Moscow last month, but the number of foreigners visiting the NATO member state still fell 36.7 percent in July, year-on-year, to 3.47 million arrivals, data from the Tourism Ministry showed on Wednesday.
The number of visitors from Russia fell almost 90 percent on the previous year to 231,000. Visitor numbers from European countries, the United States, Australia and Canada also fell sharply.
Turkey was rocked by a failed military coup on July 15, while on June 28, 45 people were killed and hundreds wounded when three suspected Islamic State militants carried out a gun and bomb attack on Istanbul's Ataturk airport.
The Turkish Touristic Hotels and Investors Association (TUROB) said in a statement that hotel occupancy rates in Istanbul fell to 36.8 percent in July, 40.6 percent lower than a year earlier.
TUROB said the decline was less marked in Antalya, usually popular with Russian sunseekers, with domestic visitors propping up occupancy rates.
In June, tourist arrivals fell a record-setting 41 percent.
VALERIK, Russia (Reuters) - An Islamic State supporter who was shot dead in Russia after he attacked police officers with an axe had planned to travel to Germany to join members of his family there, two people who knew him told Reuters.
Usman Murdalov, 21, and his friend Sulim Israilov, 18, armed themselves with axes and attacked a traffic police post near Moscow on Aug. 17. In a video posted online a day later, they professed loyalty to Islamic State.
The two people who knew him said that Murdalov, up to the point when he left his home village in the Russian region of Chechnya on Aug. 12, had been making arrangements to travel to Germany to join his father and his step-mother who moved there three months earlier.
Germany has seen a spate of violent attacks in the past few months, including two blamed on Islamists. Security officials have said that people with extremist links, some of them Chechens, are getting into Germany by passing themselves off as migrants and asylum seekers.
Ingo Decker, head spokesman for the interior ministry of the German state of Brandenburg, declined to comment on Murdalov or his family, but said the state had been dealing with large numbers of Chechen refugees for years.
"A large majority of those refugees come from the Islamic republics of Russia, and they generally come through eastern Europe," Decker said.
"Nearly all the Islamists and suspected terrorists that we are tracking in our state come from these regions, not generally from Iraq or Syria."
Chechnya is a mainly Muslim region of southern Russia which is the scene of a low-level Islamist insurgency. Russian security officials have said about 10,000 people from Russia and other ex-Soviet republics are fighting in the Middle East in the ranks of jihadist groups. There are no figures for the number of Chechens, but they make up a significant contingent within Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
In the village of Valerik, where Murdalov had his family home, a relative said that Murdalov had successfully applied to the Russian authorities for a passport so he could travel to Germany.
"He did not have a visa," to enter Germany, the relative said. "His family, who left earlier, didn't have visas either."
A neighbour in Valerik, who knows the family, also said Murdalov was planning to go to Germany, following his family.
"They went there illegally by car through Poland. That's for sure," the neighbour said, adding that he did not know their current location.
People in the village said they could not explain why Murdalov had scrapped his plan to travel to Germany.
He was last seen in Valerik on Aug. 12, when he and Israilov said they were leaving for the nearby Caspian Sea resort of Izberbash for a break.
Five days later, the two attacked the police post in Balashikha, a town near Moscow and about 1,900 km (1,200 miles) from Izberbash. They injured two police officers, one of whom later died in hospital. Murdalov and Israilov were shot dead.
A day later, Islamic State media channels released a video purporting to show Murdalov and Israilov before the attack.
"We are in Moscow on the orders of our emir, our caliph, Omar al-Baghdadi, who ordered us to do everything in our power," one of the men said in the video, referring to the leader of Islamic State.
"We are calling this a revenge operation, revenge because you are killing our brothers, because you are killing our brothers and sisters every day in Iraq and Syria."
People pledging allegiance to Islamic State have staged violent attacks in Russia's mainly Muslim north Caucasus region, but the Balashikha attack was the first time Islamic State sympathisers had mounted an attack so close to Moscow.
Relatives of Murdalov and Israilov said neither man had exhibited signs of radicalisation. They said they could not understand what could have changed in them to make them carry out the attack.
Murdalov and Israilov worked together at a small manufacturing company in Valerik producing windows and doors, according to relatives. The business is owned by Murdalov's family.
The relatives said that Israilov's parents divorced when he was a baby. He was raised by his father and his father's second wife, whom he believed to be his biological mother. He only found out she was his step-mother when his biological mother visited him, unannounced, at his school, when he was a teenager.
Israilov had been in his second year at a teacher training college in Grozny, the Chechen capital, where he studied physics and information technology.
He was expelled from the college due to poor academic performance on Feb. 24 this year, according to a document seen by Reuters.
A college official said she did not know what happened to him. "He used to have good marks but later he got worse," she said.
Israilov's aunt, who did not want to be identified, said the police visited the family and told them he died in the attack.
"We didn't want to believe it because a person who was supposed to be in Izberbash turned out to be in Moscow and, furthermore, in such circumstances."
Decker, the Brandenburg interior ministry spokesman, said the state was aware of about 80 suspected Islamist extremists in its jurisdiction, including several dozen with previous combat experience. Most were from the North Caucasus, which includes Chechnya.
Those Islamists melt into the growing number of Russian citizens - many of them Chechens - who enter Germany seeking asylum. Applications recorded in Brandenburg from Russians in the first six months of this year stand at 1,764, already exceeding the number for the whole of 2015.
Security officials said many people who pose a potential security threat enter Germany via Poland, a border that has only very limited immigration controls because the two countries are part of the European Union's free movement zone.
Anja Ducklauss-Nitschke, deputy chief of Germany’s federal police union, said it was practically impossible to even determine if the Murdalov family was in Germany given the lack of controls at the German-Polish border.
“Without fingerprints and other personal data, it’s practically not even researchable,” she said. “That’s what’s so horrifying.”
BEIJING (Reuters) - China on Wednesday advised its citizens in Kyrgyzstan to avoid going outside or visiting crowded places, after a suspected suicide car bomber rammed the gates of the Chinese embassy in its capital of Bishkek.
The attacker died and at least three people were wounded in the Tuesday blast. Officials from both countries described the assault as a terrorist act.
In a short statement on its website, China's Foreign Ministry said the government had asked Kyrgyzstan to take steps to protect Chinese nationals and organisations and bring those behind the attack to justice.
The embassy is advising people to exercise caution about visiting Kyrgyzstan and those who are there should be on alert, the ministry said.
"(We) remind Chinese citizens and organisations in Kyrgyzstan to be on high alert, increase necessary security measures and response preparations, go out as little as possible and not go to crowded places," it said.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a daily news briefing that Kyrgyzstan was investigating the attack.
"We will work with the Kyrgyzstan side to quickly ascertain specific information on the people and organisations that carried out this terrorist attack," she said.
Authorities in Kyrgyzstan, a mostly Muslim former Soviet republic of 6 million people, routinely detain suspected militants they accuse of being linked to Islamic State, which actively recruits in Central Asia.
A Turkish official said in June that one of three suspected Islamic State suicide bombers involved in a deadly attack on Istanbul's main airport was a Kyrgyz national.
An anti-Chinese militant group made up of ethnic Uighurs - a Turkic-language speaking, mainly Muslim people living in China's Xinjiang region - is also believed to be active in Central Asia.
Some security experts have questioned the Uighur group's cohesiveness, however, and say China's policies in Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in recent years in unrest blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants, have contributed to the unrest.
In 2014, Kyrgyz border guards killed 11 people believed to be members of that group who had illegally crossed the Chinese-Kyrgyz border.
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Sweden's centre-left government will boost international aid spending by 2.5 billion Swedish crowns (222.64 million pounds) in its 2017 budget, the government said on Wednesday.
Tougher rules have cut asylum applications this year freeing up around 100 billion Swedish crowns ($11.70 billion) over the next four years that the government had previously earmarked for immigration.
"We know that Swedish aid gives hope and belief for a better future in the refugee camps of Jordan, in the Afghan countryside and for the rebuilding effort after the earthquake in Nepal," Finance Minister Magdalena Andersson and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lovin said in daily Dagens Nyheter.
Around 160,000 people sought asylum in Sweden last year and the government said it would raid its overseas aid budget to finance some of the extra cost.
Andersson and Lovin, who is Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate, said the government would give back 3.9 billion crowns originally taken away from the aid budget. In addition, the government will boost aid spending by 2.5 billion crowns on as yet unspecified projects.
Sweden gives the highest proportion of its national income to aid at around 1.1 percent in 2014, according to the OECD.
($1 = 8.5439 Swedish crowns)
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - A Turkish minister said on Wednesday that comments by Germany's European commissioner in which he said Turkey would probably not join the EU while Tayyip Erdogan was president showed "cultural racism", the state-run Anadolu Agency reported.
Turkish European Union Affairs Minister Omer Celik was responding to Tuesday's remarks by Guenther Oettinger. Celik spoke in an interview with Anadolu.
Ties between Turkey and the EU have become more strained since a failed coup last month that led Turkey to purge state institutions of suspected coup sympathisers. EU states have urged restraint, drawing criticism from Turkey who said they failed to appreciate the threat posed by those behind the plot.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Pakistan had made progress in the fight against extremism in recent months, but urged Islamabad to push harder against militants hiding within its borders as tensions with neighbouring India rise amid more violence in the disputed region of Kashmir.
"It is clear that Pakistan has work to do in order to push harder against its indigenous groups that are engaged in extremist activities," Kerry said on Wednesday, the second day of a visit to India.
Kerry said the United States had made it clear to Islamabad that it needs to act against groups such as the Taliban-linked Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba that are suspected of operating from Pakistan to launch attacks against its neighbours India and Afghanistan.
"In fairness, the Pakistanis have suffered greatly from terrorism in their own country," Kerry said. "All of us need to be supportive and also understanding of how difficult it is to take it on step by step."
Without elaborating, he added: "I believe that in the last months progress is being made and the Pakistanis are moving at a greater pace."
The United States accuses the Pakistani intelligence agency of supporting the Haqqani militants and using them as a proxy in Afghanistan to gain leverage there against the growing influence of India there. Pakistan denies this.
Pakistan army has launched military operations in the troubled North Waziristan region, which is said to be the base of the Haqqani group.
Kerry said on Tuesday that Islamabad should not feel isolated by fresh talks that are planned between the United States, India and Afghanistan next month in New York. The last time such trilateral talks were held was in 2013.
BARCELONA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The Green Climate Fund, which aims to channel billions of dollars to help poorer nations tackle global warming, is not yet backing the right kind of projects to bring about a sea change in low-carbon development, said its recently departed executive director.
Héla Cheikhrouhou, who was appointed as Tunisia's minister for energy, mining and renewables in its new government on Friday, urged the $10.3-billion fund to provide clearer guidelines on what it is seeking to finance in areas such as water, urban development, energy and transport.
"Now our rules are very broad... the net that exists is very wide, so anything goes," Cheikhrouhou told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in an interview from Tunis.
"We can't continue like that; we need to invest the money wisely to meet the mandate of the fund."
The Green Climate Fund has a specific objective to promote a "paradigm shift towards low-emission and climate-resilient development pathways", and aims to use its money to achieve "transformational impact".
Since November 2015, the South Korea-based fund has approved investments of around $424 million in 17 projects and has an "aspirational goal" to commit $2.5 billion this year - a goal observers say will be tough to reach.
In the rush to get the first projects approved before the Paris climate talks in December last year, and to hit the 2016 goal, some proposals given the green light have been criticised as "business as usual".
They include a plan to develop solar energy in Chile and another to support World Bank climate action in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
Cheikhrouhou, who left the fund after one three-year term, said the agencies eligible to request its cash "need to help us to respect our mandate, and should make a bigger effort to bring us things that are not just ready and have been lying around for a while".
The fund, for its part, is working to produce technical notes to help its partners understand what kind of things it defines as "paradigm-shifting", she added.
For example, where a growing city is struggling to supply enough water to residents, simply piping in extra water could make things worse by attracting more people. Instead urban planning could be changed to spur development in regions with better water resources.
Or, in a country that wants to boost the share of renewables in its energy mix, the Green Climate Fund could back efforts to change regulations or build institutions that would attract investment into its chosen forms of clean energy on a large scale, Cheikhrouhou said.
Merely constructing a bigger wind farm or getting business involved in ongoing government efforts to reduce carbon emissions might not make the grade, she explained.
"If (the fund) became all things to all people, we would have very limited impact in the greater scheme of things. So we need to find ways to signal clearly what is a project that would change the game," she said.
Despite this challenge, Cheikhrouhou said the fund had achieved a great deal in its first three years, and had been an important building block for the new global climate change deal sealed in Paris last year, giving developing countries "extra confidence" to sign up to that agreement.
"It was one of those fast sprints where you have to jump over hurdles," she said. The main hurdles were hammering out the fund's business model, raising $10 billion from governments, and approving the first projects in time for Paris, she added.
This year, she focused on boosting staff numbers at the fund's secretariat to cope with its growing work load, and putting in place the right procedures and systems to enable the fund to run smoothly.
Those efforts still need to be accelerated so that the fund has a firm foundation to expand its activities. "There has to be a lot of hard work," she said.
The board plans to appoint a new executive director after interviewing candidates at its next meeting in October.
Javier Manzanares, the fund's chief financial officer, is acting as interim head until the new leader takes over, which the board hopes will be by early next year.
Cheikhrouhou, in her new role as Tunisia's energy minister, said she would seek to promote investment in the north African country's energy sector, with the aim of achieving "a cleaner and more efficient energy mix" over time.
Renewable energy now accounts for only around 3 to 4 percent of electric power generation, she noted, even though Tunisia has significant wind and solar resources.
"That is not where we want to be 10, 20 years from now," she said, adding that the country's democratic transition meant the time was ripe to start shifting that situation.
Tunisia has set targets for raising the share of renewable energy in its electricity production to 14 percent in 2020 and 30 percent in 2030.
NAYPYITAW (Reuters) - Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi launched a major push to end decades of fighting between the military and myriad rebel groups with an appeal on Wednesday to the country's ethnic minorities to overcome their differences to achieve peace.
Suu Kyi has made the peace process a priority for her administration, which faces sky-high expectations at home and abroad after sweeping to power in an election last November to end more than half a century of military-backed rule.
Delegates in elaborate ethnic costumes, sporting silver necklaces and hats adorned with peacock feathers, mingled and took photographs with military officers, mainstream majority Bamar politicians and diplomats at the start of the conference.
"If all those who play a part ... in the peace process cultivate the wisdom to reconcile differing views for the good of the people ... we will surely be able to build the democratic federal union of our dreams," said Suu Kyi in her opening remarks.
"Only if we are all united, our country will be at peace. Only if our country is at peace, will we be able to stand on equal footing with other countries in our region and across the world."
Myanmar has been torn by fighting between the military, which seized power in a 1962 coup, and ethnic armed groups almost without a break since the end of the Second World War.
The focus on Wednesday was on the symbolic, with few concrete proposals likely to emerge from this week's talks.
Delegates expect to meet every six months to discuss issues ranging from security, political representation, language and culture to control of Myanmar's rich mineral resources.
"It's the Tatmadaw [military] members and our brethren members of ethnic armed groups, who have been directly suffering from ... the lack of peace in the country, sacrificing their limbs and lives," said army chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing.
"I firmly believe that we will be able to accomplish this great process with our unity and efforts."
Myanmar is home to more than a hundred ethnic groups with distinct traditions and cultures, and some representative performed a folk dance on the conference stage celebrating the Southeast Asian nation's ethnic diversity.
Among those absent from the conference, however, were any representatives of Myanmar's 1.1 million Rohingya Muslims, who face persecution and human rights abuses at the hands of their Buddhist neighbours in northwestern Rakhine State.
A day before the conference started, United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called on Myanmar to improve the living conditions of the Rohingya, underscoring the challenges facing Suu Kyi in tackling all the country's ethnic divisions. [L3N1BB44S]
But the fact that Suu Kyi has been able to bring the vast majority of the rebel groups to the negotiating table only five months after taking power is a sign of progress, experts say.
Powerful armed groups from regions bordering China, including the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), who refused to sign a ceasefire last October under the previous military-backed government, are now taking part, partly owing to China's tacit support for the talks, observers say.
As Myanmar's economy opens up, China is vying for influence with the United States. President Xi Jinping pledged his country would play a "constructive role" in the peace process when Suu Kyi visited China this month.
Casting a shadow over the talks is a recent flare-up in fighting in northernmost Kachin State and clashes in northeastern Shan State, which is home to several large groups operating close to borders with China and Thailand.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia has urged legislators to take a more cautious approach in backing China's pursuit of "legitimate interests" and stay alert to the motives guiding its investments, in a briefing book published by the non-partisan parliamentary library.
Authored by government officials and distributed ahead of Tuesday's opening of parliament, the booklet raises concerns that "creating a Eurasia-wide, China-led bloc to counter the United States" is the long-term aim of China's "One Belt, One Road" project, including its investments in northern Australia.
"Some see this initiative as a profound challenge to the current global political and economic status quo," a parliamentary library researcher wrote in the booklet, designed to guide lawmakers on issues likely to come before them.
"Australia needs to adopt a more economically and strategically prudent attitude in determining how the Australia-China economic relationship is to further develop."
In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters she was not familiar with the booklet, but cooperation between Chinese and Australia companies was based on market principles and was mutually beneficial.
"We hope the government of the relevant country can create a just, fair and transparent environment for Chinese enterprises investing abroad," she told a daily news briefing.
The caution comes after Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison this month blocked the sale of electricity network Ausgrid to China and Hong Kong buyers, citing undefined national security concerns.
That followed his rejection of a Chinese consortium's bid for Australia's largest pastoral holding, S. Kidman & Co.
And a decision to lease a commercial and military port in northern Australia to a Chinese firm last year stirred concerns in the United States.
Coupled with the recent regulatory pushback to Chinese-led deals, the booklet has fed worries about prospects for future deals.
"If our industries are to reach their full potential, we need foreign investment," said Helen Sawczak, national chief executive of business grouping the Australia China Business Council.
"Issues raised in the report may deter potential investors. The relationship is strong, but it is a concern when these things stack up together."
The 205-page briefing book was handed out to members of parliament ahead of the first session after the July 2 election.
China is Australia's largest trading partner and a large source of foreign investment, spending $11.1 billion on Australian assets, mostly property, in 2015, accounting and advisory firm KPMG and the University of Sydney have said.
The parliamentary booklet sets out China's "broader uses" for its growing economic influence.
"China's rise and pursuit of its 'legitimate interests' have been supported by successive Australian governments," it said.
"A key question emerging from China's recent actions in the South China Sea is where do these 'legitimate interests' begin and end — do they include the establishment of 'spheres of influence'?"
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican U.S. senators John McCain and Marco Rubio won their party's nominations on Tuesday to seek re-election in Arizona and Florida in November, as both of the high profile politicians defeated insurgent challengers.
McCain, the 2008 failed Republican presidential candidate, now faces a spirited challenge in Arizona from Democrat Ann Kirkpatrick, who has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2011 and wants to move to the Senate.
McCain has said this year's race could be the toughest of a political career spanning more than three decades.
In advancing to the general election, the 80-year-old McCain handily beat ex-state Senator Kelli Ward, 47, a conservative Tea Party activist and a follower of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.
Like McCain, Rubio also is girding for a potentially tough challenge on Nov. 8.
Also in Florida, U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz overcame a challenger - and the embarrassment of being stripped last month of her job as head of the Democratic National Committee - and will get a shot at a seventh House term in the Nov. 8 general elections.
She beat law professor Tim Canova, an outspoken Wall Street critic aligned with U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders.
The non-traditional campaigns of Trump and Sanders, who exceeded expectations in his failed Democratic White House bid, spurred speculation that other insurgent politicians could make an impact this year.
But that didn't happen in either of the closely watched nominating races in Florida and Arizona.
Rubio, who abandoned his presidential campaign in March, cleared the initial hurdle in his battle for a second six-year term in the U.S. Senate. He defeated novice politician Carlos Beruff, a millionaire homebuilder, who embraced Trump.
U.S. Representative Patrick Murphy, a Democrat, won his party's Senate nomination on Tuesday, and is expected to give g Rubio a tough fight, especially if Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton leads Trump in Florida.
There is speculation that Rubio might still harbor presidential ambitions after media reports this week that he had refused to commit to serving all six years of a Senate term if he were re-elected.
Trump has endorsed McCain and Rubio in their re-election bids even though he has rocky relations with both.
How McCain and Rubio fare could have a big say in whether Republicans can defy expectations and maintain majority control of the Senate after November's election.
"The balance of the Senate and the outcome of the presidential election are all hanging on Florida," Rubio predicted in a fundraising appeal late on Tuesday.
Trump offended McCain and many other Republicans last year by suggesting the maverick senator was anything but a war hero because he was captured during the Vietnam War after his airplane was shot down during a bombing mission.
In March, Trump ended Rubio's presidential run by trouncing him in the Florida primary to cap a race in which the New York businessman taunted the first-term senator as "little Marco."
Rubio fired back, insulting Trump on everything from his hair color and the size of his hands to misspelled words in tweets.
During their re-election efforts, both McCain and Rubio have offered support for Trump as the party's White House nominee and steered clear of attacks on that might antagonize Trump's core supporters.
But they have tiptoed around Trump, mainly out of concern that his provocative comments on illegal immigration, Muslims and U.S. support for NATO could alienate moderate and independent voters in their states.
(This version of the story corrects McCain's failed presidential bid in second paragraph to 2008, from 2012)
EVERETT, Washington/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican Donald Trump, who has made his criticism of a pending Pacific trade agreement central to his campaign, on Tuesday visited a Seattle suburb home to a large Boeing Co plane manufacturing facility that depends heavily on Asian sales.
Trump vowed at his rally that he would win Washington state, even though the state tends to support Democrats and that party’s nominee, Hillary Clinton, leads by large margins in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 8 election.
The Republican nominee, however, presents a conundrum for the unions that represent workers at Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company. He has courted manufacturing workers with vows to tear up trade agreements and scrap the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership.
"The destruction that NAFTA started will be finished off if the Trans-Pacific Partnership is approved," Trump said on Tuesday, referring to a separate deal with Canada and Mexico reached in the 1990s. He also has vowed to renegotiate that agreement.
Supporters of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) point to Boeing's aircraft sales to Asia to tout the benefits of the agreement. Secretary of State John Kerry visited a nearby plant earlier this year to rally support for the pact.
Manufacturing unions agree with Trump on his opposition to TPP and the export of jobs overseas, but officials said they find his track record unconvincing.
"The fact is that Trump has had the opportunity to bring jobs to Americans, and he's chosen to outsource them," said Larry Brown, legislative and political director for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District Lodge 751, which represents about 32,000 workers in the state, mostly at Boeing.
Boeing produces some of its largest planes only miles from where Trump spoke Tuesday night. As they are assembled, the painted tails of the planes show the airlines that ordered them, and many are Asian. Major components of each plane come from overseas: South Korea, China and Europe.
Over the next 20 years, Boeing projects that Asian customers will account for 40 percent of the total global jetliner's market, the company said in a recent report.
"Trade is a huge part of the success of manufacturing in Washington," said Linda Dempsey, vice president of international economic affairs for the National Association of Manufacturers, which Boeing belongs to. "They are exporting $73 billion in manufactured goods."
But Trump offers a more dire outlook, arguing that only he can keep Boeing from moving those high-paying manufacturing jobs from Washington to China.
"They'll start taking your business away, and you won't have much of Boeing," Trump told Seattle's KIRO radio on Monday.
Trump has broken with the Republican Party's traditional embrace of free trade. He has vowed to rip up the TPP and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, an existing deal with Canada and Mexico which he blames for the loss of U.S. jobs.
The Republican Party's support for free trade has put it in sync with large business groups such as the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers.
Tony Fratto, a former official in the administration of Republican George W. Bush, criticized Trump as out of step with the party.
"Trump's policies in this area are really dumb generally, but are particularly dumb for a major exporting company," said Fratto, who worked on behalf of a coalition of large companies, including Boeing, that were pushing for renewal of the Export-Import Bank.
Some voters in Washington state remain divided. Kirk Hoeppner, 53, a business analyst at Boeing who lives in Granite Falls, Washington, said he will vote for Trump and he agrees with his business views. But he was not sure closer ties to other countries would hurt jobs there.
“Even if we ally with other countries, we’re still going to sell more airplanes,” Hoeppner said.
Corey McNally, 40, of Whidbey Island, Washington, has not decided whom he will vote for.
"The union members love Hillary just because they're supposed to because she's a liberal," said McNally. And Trump, whom he called "just kind of a big show," may be too late to change anything.
"This company's been outsourcing jobs for years," he said of Boeing.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysian police said on Wednesday they had arrested three local supporters of the Islamic State militant group who had allegedly been planning several attacks in the capital, Kuala Lumpur, ahead of independence day celebrations.
The three men, detained in a three-day police operation on August 27-29, had allegedly received instructions from Malaysian Islamic State fighter Muhammad Wanndy Muhammad Jedi to attack an entertainment centre, a Hindu temple and a police station on Tuesday on the eve of independence day celebrations.
"All three suspects were planning to leave for Syria to join the Islamic State terrorist group ... after successfully carrying out the attacks," Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar said in a statement.
Police said they had seized a grenade and a handgun with 24 bullets from one of the suspects, who works as a lorry driver. The two others worked as a butcher and a drinks seller.
Wanndy is a Malaysian known to be fighting with Islamic State in Syria and is seen as the man responsible for ordering a grenade attack in June on a bar on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur, the Islamist group's first successful assault in Malaysia.
Police arrested nine people believed to have Islamic State links in the aftermath of the grenade attack.
Earlier this month, Malaysia revoked the passports of 68 Malaysians who have been identified as leaving the country to join Islamic State. Police intelligence reportedly said in March that 18 Malaysians had been killed while fighting with the group in Syria, and that seven others were killed carrying out suicide attacks for the group.
There have not been any reports of Malaysian Islamic State fighters returning home.
Authorities in Muslim-majority Malaysia have been on high alert since Islamic State-linked militants carried out an armed attack in the capital of neighbouring Indonesia in January.
In June, Islamic State released a video of its fighters from Southeast Asia calling on its supporters to unify under one umbrella group and launch attacks in the region.
A total of 230 people, including 200 Malaysians, were arrested between 2013 and early August this year for involvement in militant activities linked to Islamic State.
SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has executed its vice premier for education and rebuked two high-ranking officials, South Korea said on Wednesday, which, if true, would mark a new series of measures by leader Kim Jong Un to discipline top aides.
Kim took power in 2011 after the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, and his consolidation of power has included purges and executions of top officials, South Korean officials have said.
South Korea's Unification Ministry spokesman Jeong Joon-hee said the government had confirmed the execution of the education official, Kim Yong Jin, "through various channels" but declined to provide details.
Kim Yong Chol, the influential head of the North's United Front Department which handles inter-Korean relations, was made to undergo "revolutionary measures," Jeong told a briefing.
Another ruling party official in the propaganda department was also reprimanded, Jeong said.
It is difficult to independently verify news about top officials in the North or the inner circle around the leader. Some previous reports of executions and purges in the reclusive state have proven inaccurate.
Vice Premier Kim Yong Jin was executed for not keeping his posture upright at a public event, a South Korean government official later told Reuters. Kim Yong Chol was punished for his overbearing demeanor, the official added, but gave no details.
The execution, by firing squad, took place in July and Kim Yong Chol was re-educated at a rural farm for a month until mid-August, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency said.
The South's comments follow a news report on Tuesday that the North had executed two high-ranking officials for disobeying leader Kim Jong Un.
Kim Yong Jin was promoted to vice premier in 2012 after serving as education minister, according to a South Korean government database on key officials of the North.
Army general Kim Yong Chol headed the North Korean intelligence agency before taking his current position this year.
News of the reclusive state's new purges comes after the South said North Korea's deputy ambassador in London had defected and arrived in the South with his family, dealing an embarrassing blow to Kim's regime.
North Korea rarely announces purges or executions, although state media confirmed the 2012 execution of Kim's uncle, Jang Song Thaek, widely considered the country's second most powerful man, for factionalism and crimes damaging to the economy.
A former defense minister, Hyun Yong Chol, is also believed to have been executed last year for treason, according to the South's spy agency.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A strong earthquake with a magnitude of 6.8 struck off the town of Rabaul in Papua New Guinea on Wednesday, the U.S. Geological Survey said.
The epicentre of the quake was located 89 km (55 miles) northeast of Rabaul on New Britain island and at a depth of 499 kms (310 miles).
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto will meet U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump for a private meeting on Wednesday, Pena Nieto's office said via Twitter on Tuesday.
The Mexican presidency said the government had sent an invitation to both Trump and Democratic hopeful Hillary Clinton for talks and that Trump's team had accepted.
A spokesman for the Mexican presidency said the meeting would be in Mexico and that details of the encounter were still being worked out.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A "human-caused" brush fire flared quickly out of control and prompted the evacuation of some 700 people on Tuesday from a mobile home park and nearby community in Southern California's Riverside County, state fire officials said.
The blaze erupted shortly before 12:30 p.m. local time (1730 GMT) and charred about 700 acres of drought-parched vegetation within five hours as flames roared through canyons and foothills in the Cherry Valley area, about 75 miles (120 km) east of Los Angeles.
No injuries were reported but the blaze destroyed one outbuilding, according to April Newman, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire).
Sheriff's deputies immediately issued mandatory evacuation orders for the Highland Springs Village Mobile Home Park and dwellings in the nearby Banning Bench community to the northeast. Newman said an estimated 700 residents, from about 200 homes in all, were displaced.
Investigators determined the fire to be of unspecified human origin and asked for anyone with information about "juvenile activity" near the entrance to a park where the blaze began to contact an arson hotline, Cal Fire said on its website.
Authorities declined to give further information.
By late afternoon, winds were blowing the flames mostly away from populated areas "but we have them under evacuation because we have a ton of equipment coming in, and this is our access point to that fire," Cal Fire spokeswoman Liz Brown said.
More than 320 firefighters were initially assigned to the blaze, dubbed the Bogart Fire, and crews had managed to carve containment lines around 5 percent of its perimeter by 5.30 p.m. (2230 GMT), Cal Fire reported.
The firefighting force had grown to 410 personnel by then, backed by five helicopters and nine airplane tankers equipped to drop water and fire-retardant chemicals on the blaze.
Brown said temperatures that had reached into the low-triple-digits earlier in the day had subsided somewhat but humidity remained low and winds were relatively light, at 5 to 10 miles per hour (8-16 kmh).
Cal Fire reported about 12,000 firefighters battling about 10 other large fires across the state on Tuesday, most of which were largely contained or burning in remote areas. A total of 4,270 wildfires large and small have blackened more than 183,000 acres statewide so far this year, 30,000 acres more than at the same time last year.
SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has made considerable progress this year on weapons technology, including testing a submarine-launched missile for the first time, but it's still not clear if the isolated nation has developed a nuclear warhead.
It also does not yet have a fleet of submarines that can launch the newly developed missile.
Nevertheless, concerns about the threat posed by North Korea have spiraled since it conducted its fourth nuclear explosion in January and followed it up with a series of missile tests despite severe United Nations sanctions.
Also, three major factories known to produce machine parts for North Korea's sanctioned nuclear and missile programs have been modernized or expanded, according to analysis of recent satellite imagery seen by Reuters, a further sign of its commitment of scarce resources to weapons. (For graphic, click here)
"North Korea has dramatically increased the pace of missile testing and invested heavily in modernizing its factories that produce them, something we can see in satellite images," said Jeffrey Lewis of the California-based Middlebury Institute of International Studies.
"These investments have paid off with the recent test of a solid-fueled submarine-launched missile, but North Korea has not yet completed development of a submarine to carry that missile."
In April, a South Korean official said the North had accomplished miniaturization of a nuclear warhead to mount on a missile, although there was no direct evidence it had done so. The United States has said the North's claim that it had miniaturized a warhead had to be taken as a credible threat.
"I think North Korea is capable of miniaturizing nuclear bombs," said Yang Uk, a senior research fellow at the Korea Defence and Security Forum and a policy adviser to the South Korean navy. "But they don't have any standardized warhead yet to put on missiles. They keep gathering data through nuclear tests and working to standardize a warhead."
Experts have predicted that the delivery vehicle for the North's first nuclear warhead would be the medium-range Rodong missile, which can fire a 1 tonne (1,100 lb) warhead up to 2,000 km (1,250 miles).
Despite threats to strike the mainland United States, the North is seen as several years away from building an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that can carry a nuclear warhead.
In the past year, North Korea has boasted of numerous weapons breakthroughs in unprecedented detail.
Although some of it was bluster, international experts have concluded North Korea's missiles have flown higher and for longer than previously, indicating progress in the country's banned missile program.
In June, after repeated failures, it successfully launched an intermediate-range missile, which can fly up to 3,500 km (2,100 miles).
Analysis of satellite images shows that the North has recently expanded factories known to contribute to its nuclear and missile programs.
An Aug 22 image of a sprawling plant in a rural area 60 km (37 miles) north of Pyongyang appears to show several new structures, extensive refurbishment of existing buildings and a new entrance to a probable underground facility, according to  data from satellite imagery provider Planet that was analyzed by Lewis.
The January 18 General Machine Plant has long been used to produce engines for tanks, missiles and other military vessels, according to experts.
"This represents an enormous investment in North Korea's missile production infrastructure, something that is consistent with the propaganda offensive we have seen and the spike in missile testing," said Lewis.
The Kanggye General Tractor Plant, believed by arms control experts to assemble North Koreans munitions, was also upgraded in the last year, according to imagery analyzed by Lewis.
The plant is the country's "main weapons production base," a defector who worked in North Korea's secretive munitions industry told South Korea's Chosun Ilbo newspaper in 2010.
For Pyongyang, however, building a new submarine fleet seems to be a top priority.
A new construction hall has come up at North Korea's Sinpo submarine base on the east coast, according to images collected by Planet.
An image from Aug 10 shows a new structure being built beside a refurbished pier within the base, although it was not clear if the new hall would house a new class of submarine.
Perfecting submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) technology and having a fleet of submarines that could deploy the weapons would raise North Korea's threat to Japan and U.S. interests in the Pacific to a new level, given the ability of submarines to escape a land attack and evade missile defense shields.
Leader Kim Jong Un proclaimed the SLBM test the country's "greatest success" and said North Korea was at the "front-rank of nuclear powers".
Moon Keun-sik, a retired South Korean submarine captain and squadron leader, said North Korea's conventional diesel-powered submarines were a persistent threat despite their age but its SLBM-capable craft could be a game-changer.
"North Korea will be or is already in the process of building a newer, bigger submarine that may happen as early as next year," he said.
BEIRUT/ANKARA/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States welcomed an apparent pause in fighting between Turkish-backed forces and Kurdish militia fighters in Syria on Tuesday, both of them members of the coalition fighting Islamic State, but it was far from clear that any truce would hold.
Washington has been alarmed by NATO ally Turkey's incursion into northern Syria, launched almost a week ago. The operation, dubbed "Euphrates Shield," aims to push back Islamic State but also to prevent U.S.-backed Kurdish militia fighters from seizing more territory along the Turkish border.
Ankara fears advances by Kurdish fighters as Islamic State is pushed out are aimed at establishing a Kurdish enclave along Syria's northern border, a move which could embolden a three-decade-long Kurdish insurgency on Turkish soil.
The Turkish incursion has left Washington scrambling to get its feuding allies to focus their firepower on Islamic State instead of each other after clashes that have threatened to unravel America's war strategy in Syria.
"The United States welcomes the overnight calm between the Turkish military and other counter-ISIL forces in Syria," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said, using an acronym for the militant group.
U.S. State Department spokesman John Kirby said the period of calm had lasted 12 to 18 hours and the United States would like it to continue so that all members of the coalition could focus their efforts on fighting Islamic State militants.
A Kurdish military official said a ceasefire between Turkey and Kurdish-backed militia fighters was holding. But Turkish military sources denied there was any such agreement, while a Turkish-backed Syrian rebel commander characterised it only as a "pause" and said that military operations would soon resume.
Turkish-backed forces began their offensive last week by capturing the Syrian frontier town of Jarablus from Islamic State; they then advanced on areas controlled by Kurdish-aligned militias which have U.S. support in battling jihadists.
Washington said the offensive risked undermining the fight against Islamic State.
French President Francois Hollande said he understood Turkey's need to defend itself but that targeting Kurdish forces battling jihadists could further inflame the five-year-old Syrian conflict.
"Those multiple, contradictory interventions carry risks of a general flare-up," he told a meeting of French ambassadors.
Ankara says it will not take orders from anyone on how to protect the nation. The Turkish foreign ministry said on Tuesday military operations in Syria would continue until all threats to Turkish security were removed and that U.S. comments on Turkey's targets in the operation were "unacceptable".
"The statements of U.S. officials about the content and the targets of the Euphrates Shield operation ... are unacceptable and are not in line with the alliance between the two countries," a foreign ministry spokesman said, adding that a complaint had been lodged with the U.S. ambassador to Turkey.
Eager to avoid more clashes between Turkey and U.S.-backed Syrian fighters, the Pentagon said the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State was establishing communications channels to better coordinate in a "crowded battlespace".
"The improved coordination of armed activities in northern Syria will seek to assure the safety of all forces," Pentagon spokesman Matthew Allen said.
Sharfan Darwish, a spokesman for the Manbij Military Council, said a ceasefire between Turkey and the Jarablus Military Council was holding.
Both councils are allied with the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a U.S.-backed alliance of groups including the powerful Kurdish YPG militia that is fighting Islamic State insurgents and has expanded along Syria's frontier with Turkey.
The Jarablus Military Council subsequently said the temporary ceasefire was "under the oversight of the international coalition led by the United States".
Two senior Turkish military sources denied any such truce had been agreed. A commander in one of the Turkish-backed Syrian rebel groups that have clashed with SDF-allied groups south of Jarablus also denied such a deal.
"There is no truce and no ceasefire. But there has been a pause for some time," the commander, who declined to be identified, told Reuters by telephone, adding that the operation would resume shortly.
A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, also declined to describe the pause in fighting as a ceasefire as such, though he said the intent was similar.
In a boost elsewhere to the fight against Islamic State, its Amaq News Agency reported that the group's spokesman Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, one of its longest-serving and most prominent leaders, had been killed in Aleppo.
Turkey's army chief earlier signalled no let-up in Ankara's Syria offensive, saying its successes showed a failed coup in Turkey last month had done nothing to dent the military's power.
"By pursuing the Euphrates Shield operation, which is crucial for our national security and for our neighbours' security, the Turkish Armed Forces are showing they have lost none of their strength," Chief of General Staff Hulusi Akar said in a statement to mark a national holiday.
Turkey is still reeling from an attempted coup in July in which rogue military commanders used warplanes and tanks to try to oust President Tayyip Erdogan and the government, exposing splits in the ranks of NATO's second-biggest military.
In a purge of suspected coup sympathisers, 80,000 people have been removed from both civilian and military duties, including many generals, officers and rank-and-file soldiers.
In its Syria offensive, Turkish forces and their rebel allies have taken a string of villages in areas controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and advanced towards Manbij, a city the SDF seized from Islamic State this month in a U.S.-backed campaign.
Turkey says its forces have struck multiple positions held by the Kurdish YPG militia, part of the SDF coalition.
The YPG says its forces withdrew from the region before the Turkish assault and have already crossed the Euphrates, in line with a demand from the United States to withdraw to the eastern side of the river that flows through Syria or lose U.S. support.
Turkey wants to stop Kurdish forces taking control of territory that lies between cantons to the east and west that they already hold, and so creating an unbroken Kurdish- controlled corridor on Turkey's southern border.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - With the summer holiday almost over, computer science student Hande Tekiner should be gearing up for a year of cram sessions and late-night homework. Instead, she may have nowhere to return to, as her university was shut after Turkey's failed coup.
Authorities have closed 15 universities and around 1,000 secondary schools linked to Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based Muslim cleric blamed for the July 15 attempted putsch. Gulen has denied involvement in the plot and condemned it.
The closures have left about 200,000 students in Turkey in academic limbo, wondering if they can continue their studies and worried about the black mark of a Gulen school on their college record. Tens of thousands of academics and school teachers have also been purged, deepening concern about curtailment of academic freedom and free speech.
"As students at universities that have been shut, we are being victimised, even though those schools were opened with state approval," said Tekiner.
The 23-year-old had been due to start her fourth and final year at Mevlana University in the central city of Konya before the coup. "I have doubts if I will be able to finish my studies," she said.
Tekiner said she and others were harassed on social media, labelled by anonymous accusers as supporters of the coup because they attended Gulen schools.
President Tayyip Erdogan and the government say the cleric's network used the schools to recruit followers who then infiltrated the military, civil service and judiciary. Gulen, who has lived in Pennsylvania since 1999, denies the charges.
Turkey has asked the United States to extradite him but Washington says only a federal court can make that decision. Since the coup, in which at least 240 people died, Turkey has detained about 40,000 people and formally arrested half of them.
Rights groups and some in the West fear Erdogan is using the purges to stifle dissent and tighten his grip on power.
Until a public falling-out in 2013, Erdogan and Gulen were allies. Erdogan initially saw the cleric as useful in taming the influence of the military and secular elite who had dominated Turkey since the founding of the modern republic.
For years Gulen's followers have run schools across Turkey and as far afield as Africa and the United States, blending Islam with an emphasis on science and interfaith dialogue.
The schools helped to open up higher education to Erdogan's voter base - the pious masses often from poorer regions who were   traditionally shut out of elite universities in Istanbul and Ankara.
Erdogan, himself a graduate of a religious school, has fought to bring religious education into the mainstream of constitutionally secular Turkey and worked to overturn a ban on the headscarf in parliament and universities.
But the closure of Gulen schools is troubling for students in towns where there are no other universities. Those from modest backgrounds - and female students from pious families - cannot afford, or may not be allowed, to live away from home.
"The reason I chose my university is to be close to home," said another student from Konya's Mevlana University. "As a  girl, my family would never allow me to study in another town."
The Council of Higher Education, known as "YOK" in Turkish, provoked widespread outrage when it said students would be placed at new universities based on exam scores, meaning they could end up at a school on the other side of the country.
It later relented following a number social media campaigns, including one under the hashtag "#YOKbizimagduretme" or "YOK, don't victimise us".
Roughly 80,000 people in the military, civil service, and judiciary have been sacked or suspended in the purges. Around half of those have been in education, according to state media.
Teachers' unions and some opposition politicians say authorities are targeting educators based on evidence that is tenuous at best - such as having opened a savings account at Bank Asya, a now defunct lender founded by Gulen's followers.
The government has said the investigations and other measures are necessary to prevent another coup.
But Kamuran Karaca, who heads one of Turkey's biggest teachers' unions, said the wrong people were being targeted. Since the coup, 88 members of his Egitim-Sen union have been  suspended.
"All of our members who have been suspended, rather than being supporters of Gulen, are on the contrary people who strive for secular education and a secular life," said Karaca.
"We believe they were blacklisted because they deposited their rent in Bank Asya, or took a loan from it, or a relative took a loan from it."
Gaye Usluer, a lawmaker from the opposition Republican People's Party, criticised what she said was a "sweeping" crackdown that has also harmed people who may be innocent.
Candan Badem, a Marxist historian, was briefly detained for possessing a book by Gulen in his home, his lawyer told Reuters. He was later released. Badem signed an "Academics for Peace" petition this year that criticised military action in the largely Kurdish southeast.
Erdogan denounced the more than 1,000 signatories, which also included U.S. linguist and activist Noam Chomsky, and some Turkish academics were detained over it.
Several academics and teachers declined to talk to Reuters about the purge, saying they were afraid to go on the record.
"The freedom to communicate and the freedom to collaborate are essential to functioning good science," said Rush Holt of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, who wrote an open letter to Erdogan urging protection of the rights of the scientific community.
The European University Association has said that measures introduced in the wake of coup "go in the wrong direction".
Still, some academics defend the crackdown.
"Nobody knows where this illegal organisation starts and where it ends," said Sedat Gumus, an associate professor at Necmettin Erbakan University in central Konya.
"In such a context, suspending many people from their jobs is understandable. In the investigation it will be revealed who was involved to what extent. If there are people who are falsely accused, they should be able to return to their jobs."
NEW YORK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The United Nations defended its aid funding in Syria on Tuesday after an investigation revealed lucrative contracts were awarded to people close to the nation's President Bashar al-Assad.
The U.N.'s Syrian contracts came under fire in British newspaper The Guardian which said aid money has gone to a charity set up by Assad's wife and to groups and businesses under U.S. and European Union sanctions.
More than 250,000 people have died and 11 million from a population of 23 million have been forced from their homes in Syria's five-year war which started as an uprising against Assad's rule.
The uprising sparked violence among government forces, pro-government militias, nationalist rebels, Islamic State and Kurdish groups and has created a patchwork of areas controlled by different groups.
A spokesman for U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said      Syria was a "difficult and challenging operating environment" with a limited number of vendors of fuel, telecommunication and other goods, especially in hard-to-reach areas.
But he said U.N. aid had reached more than one million people this year in such areas.
"People who accuse us of being 'too close' to one side or another have clearly not been paying attention to what we have been saying on a regular basis," he said in an email to the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
He added that a guiding principle for the United Nations, with 193 member states, was to deliver to all areas of Syria irrespective of the status of control.
"This includes regular dialogue with the government of Syria and its relevant entities to operate at scale and assist the most vulnerable people," the spokesman said.
The Guardian report said it had analysed hundreds of U.N. contracts awarded since 2011, finding the U.N.'s World Health Organization spent more than $5 million on Syria's national blood bank which is controlled by Assad's defence department.
It found the United Nations had paid more than $13 million to the Syrian government to improve farming and agriculture - although the European Union has banned trade with those departments.
It also said the United Nations has paid at least $4 million to Syria's state-owned fuel supplier, also under EU sanctions.
The newspaper cited anonymous sources as saying the United Nations knew its association with such groups in Syria did not promote its humanitarian principles and who believed aid was being prioritised in government-held areas.
It quoted Reinoud Leenders, a London-based expert in war studies, who said the U.N.'s procurement contracts to associates of the Syrian regime "bankroll the very repression and brutality that caused much of the country's humanitarian needs".
"The U.N.'s alleged pragmatism has long given way to troubling proximity to the regime," Leenders said.
The Guardian said two U.N. agencies partnered with the Syria Trust charity, headed by Assad's wife Asma, and had spent $8.5 million. She is under U.S. and E.U. sanctions, it said.
The United Nations said its humanitarian aid in Syria is delivered through dozens of agencies and partners, one of which is the Syria Trust that received less than $800,000 in funding under the U.N.'s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
The U.N. spokesman defended its actions in Syria.
"We do not shy away from criticizing the government for its heavy bureaucratic clearance process and the systematic removal of surgical supplies from convoys, not to mention the use of barrel bombs and indiscriminate bombings of civilian targets," he said.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Confirmed cases of Zika virus in Singapore rose to 82 on Tuesday, as the United States joined a growing list of countries warning pregnant women or those trying to get pregnant to avoid travel to the city-state.
The mosquito-borne Zika virus, which has caused explosive outbreaks in the Americas and the Caribbean since late last year, poses a particular risk to pregnant women because it can cause microcephaly, a severe birth defect in which babies are born with abnormally small heads and underdeveloped brains.
On Tuesday, the United States warned pregnant women not to travel to Singapore, joining Australia, Taiwan and South Korea.
The warnings followed news that Zika transmission appears to be occurring outside of the original cluster, with at least five of 26 new cases confirmed late on Tuesday detected in the Aljunied area in the southeast of Singapore, the health ministry and National Environment Agency (NEA) said in a joint statement.
Singapore has advised pregnant women to take a free Zika test if they showed any symptoms or if their partners tested positive. "This is regardless of whether they have been to Zika-affected areas," health officials said in a statement.
The outbreak and advisories come as the tourism industry in one of the world's busiest travel hubs already faces weak global economic growth. Singapore's Tourism Board said it was premature to consider any impact on the sector, adding it remained a "safe travel destination".
More than 55 million people pass through Singapore's Changi airport every year. In the first half of this year, tourism arrivals topped 8 million, around 1 million more than a year earlier.
Singapore reported its first case of locally-transmitted Zika at the weekend, and the number of confirmed infections has risen steadily since then. At least three dozen patients have made a full recovery.
Neighboring Malaysia and Indonesia have stepped up protective measures, introducing thermal scanners at airports and border checkpoints with the island state. Such measures, however, will only identify symptomatic cases of Zika, but only one in five people have symptoms of the virus, which include fever, rash, joint pain and pink eye.
Singapore residents responded to government calls to be vigilant and to take precautions against mosquito bites.
Online retailer Lazada Singapore said sales of insect repellents jumped five-fold in the past three days. FairPrice supermarkets and Watsons pharmacies said their sales of such products had doubled.
Most of the early infections were among foreign workers, hundreds of thousands of whom, mainly from the Asian sub-continent, work on Singapore's construction sites and in the marine sector.
The Singapore government has not said where the infected foreign workers are from. The foreign ministry directed queries to the health ministry, which did not respond to Reuters questions on the issue. The Ministry of Manpower also did not respond to a request for comment made outside working hours.
The High Commission of Bangladesh, which represents the largest community of foreign workers, said none of those infected were Bangladeshis, and the Thai foreign ministry said none were from Thailand. The embassies of China, India, Sri Lanka and Myanmar said they had not been notified by Singapore whether their citizens were among those infected.
Authorities inspected thousands of homes in seven parts of Singapore, including five foreign worker dormitories, spraying insecticide and removing potential mosquito breeding habitats.
The NEA has inspected about 5,000 premises in and around the initial outbreak area, issuing 400 notices to owners of buildings they could not access. The NEA can force entry into those premises if needed.
Zika was first discovered in Uganda in 1947. It caused clusters of human infections from the 1960s to 1980s across Africa and Asia, according to the World Health Organization.
The outbreak in the Americas was caused by a Zika strain from Asia, possibly carried to Brazil through travel to a sporting event. Many experts believe once infected, Zika produces lifelong immunity.
"Unfortunately, it is not clear the level of immunity that is currently in Asia," said Alessandro Vespignani of Northeastern University in Boston.
WHO declared Zika a global health emergency because of its link with microcephaly. In Brazil, Zika has been linked to more than 1,800 cases of microcephaly.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Democrats in Congress, including party Senate leader Harry Reid, asked the FBI to investigate concerns that the Russian government may be attempting to undermine the U.S. presidential election through cyber attacks that could include tampering with voting results.
"The prospect of a hostile government actively seeking to undermine our free and fair elections represents one of the gravest threats to our democracy since the Cold War," Reid said in a letter to FBI Director James Comey.
Reid's letter, dated Saturday, was first obtained by The New York Times and shared on its website on Monday.
It was followed on Tuesday by a letter from four Democrats asking Comey to assess whether campaign officials working for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump may be colluding with Russian interests to carry out recent hacks against the Democratic National Committee and Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in order to "interfere with the U.S. presidential election."
That letter was signed by Representatives Elijah Cummings, John Conyers, Elliot Engel and Bennie Thompson, each of whom serves as the top Democrat on a different congressional committee. Republicans control both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
Comey, speaking at a cyber security conference on Tuesday, declined to give details about what the Federal Bureau of Investigation was probing in connection with the political hacking but indicated the agency was closely watching what foreign countries are doing.
"We take very seriously any effort by any actor, ... especially nation states, that moves beyond the collection of information ... and offers the prospect of an effort to influence the conduct of affairs in our country, whether that is an election or something else," he said.
The two letters follow a spate of hacking attacks targeting U.S. political databases, including some that officials and cyber security experts have blamed on hackers working for the Russian government. Kremlin officials have denied that.
The FBI examined breaches in voter registration databases in Illinois and Arizona but did not specify who might have been behind it.
Reid said that the threat of Russian government tampering in the election was "more extensive than widely known and may include the intent to falsify official election results."
He also voiced concerns about possible Russian government efforts to manipulate Trump's campaign ahead of the Nov. 8 election, and to use it as a vehicle to advance the interests of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
MOGADISHU (Reuters) - At least 10 people, including soldiers and civilians, were killed in Somalia's capital Mogadishu on Tuesday when a car bomb claimed by al Shabaab exploded outside the Presidential Palace and also damaged two nearby hotels, an official said.
Information Minister Mohamed Abdi Hayir told state radio that a meeting of security officials was under way inside one of the hotels, the SYL, at the time of blast and that one minister and some state radio journalists were injured in the attack.
The hotel is frequented by government officials and police said it believed the facility was the likely target.
The SYL and another hospitality facility, both located near the Presidential Palace, were partially destroyed by the blast, Major Mohamed Ali, a police officer, told Reuters.
"The blast killed 10 (people) including soldiers and civilians and 30 others were wounded," Ali said.
Gunfire could be heard after the blast and a huge cloud of smoke rose above the palace, outside which were the remnants of the car and splattered blood, according to a Reuters witness.
Al Shabaab's Radio Andaluz said the Islamist group was behind the attack and their military operations spokesman, Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, said the attack had killed 15 soldiers and "injured many others including a lawmaker".   Seeking to impose its own harsh form of Islam, al Shabaab, wants to topple the Western backed government in Mogadishu and also push out the 22,000-strong African Union mandated AMISOM peace keeping force backing it.
The group was pushed out of Mogadishu by AMISOM in 2011 but have remained a serious threat, launching frequent attacks aimed at overthrowing the government.
The militants have claimed responsibility for several explosions in Mogadishu, including a car bomb and gun attack last week at a popular beach restaurant in the capital that killed 10 people.
In a separate incident, al Shabaab fighters attacked military bases housing government and African Union troops south west of the capital Mogadishu late on Monday, police and the group said on Tuesday.
Military officer Major Bile Farah said a soldier and two al Shabaab fighters were killed in the attack in K-50 and Muri in Lower Shabelle region.
Abu Musab told Reuters the group's fighters had killed 10 soldiers and commandeered a vehicle from the Somali government soldiers in the Monday attack.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's ruling party backed Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday but urged him to cooperate with police investigations, days after Gordhan declined to meet detectives looking into his time at the tax office.
Gordhan said last week he had done nothing wrong and had no legal obligation to obey a police summons over the inquiry into whether he used a surveillance unit set up when he was head of the tax service to spy on politicians.
State prosecutors have denied suggestions in local media that Gordhan could be charged over the investigation; but the speculation has hit South African assets.
The main opposition party Democratic Alliance said last week  the police investigation into Gordhan was a "witch-hunt".
Political commentators say the probe is supported by a faction allied to President Jacob Zuma, who is said to have been among the politicians spied on by the tax surveillance unit.
Zuma - who has said he backs Gordhan but cannot stop the investigation - has denied warring with the finance minister.
"The ANC reaffirms its unreserved confidence in the Minister," the African National Congress (ANC) Secretary General Gwede Mantashe said, warning that speculation over the minister was hurting the economy and the case could be dealt with better.
The rand gained after Mantashe expressed confidence in Gordhan but then went into reverse, falling 0.6 percent to a session low, after he said the minister must obey the police summons.
"The minister must cooperate with processes. If he has no case to answer he can only prove that through processes," Mantashe told a news conference.
Mantashe said the investigation into Gordhan should be carried out in a manner that does not embarrass the minister.
"All we are saying is that please deal with this matter in a decent way. We don't say Pravin Gordhan must be untouchable," he said, adding the probe should be conducted without "having an element of humiliating this minister."
Analysts said the ANC was split on how to handle the fallout from the Gordhan investigation.
"The ANC is also divided on the question of whether the Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan should remain or should be removed which ever way it turns it will affect the ANC," said Professor Shadrack Gutto, a law lecturer at the University of South Africa.
Mantashe also said the ANC was concerned about a dispute between the Treasury and state-owned power utility Eskom.
The Treasury on Monday accused Eskom executives of blocking the probe of coal contracts between the utility and a company linked to the wealthy Gupta family that is accused of holding undue political sway over Zuma.
Eskom said it was cooperating with investigations and had not been involved in any wrongdoing.
The Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she was concerned that the row could lead to the utility being downgraded by credit rating agencies and ordered the utility to provide a report to facilitate the probe.
The utility later said it sent the report to the Treasury.
"It has been unfortunate that Eskom and National Treasury have also taken their disagreement to the public domain on matters relating to procurement issues," Mantashe said.
In another public spat between the Treasury and a state-run company, South African arms maker Denel said late on Tuesday it would fight a bid to halt a joint venture it has been pursuing called Denel Asia.
Local media have reported that the company is linked to the Gupta family but Denel said this was not the case and there were no grounds for the Treasury to block the joint venture.
"The allegations that Denel is 'captured by the Guptas' are unfounded and politically motivated. The Gupta family has no business joint venture with Denel and none of the Gupta family members or relatives are shareholders in Denel Asia," Denel said in a statement.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Egypt's parliament approved on Tuesday a long-awaited law that governs building and renovating churches, an issue that has led in the past to attacks on members the country's Christian minority by Muslim militants.
Egyptian Christians make up about a tenth of the country's 90 million population and are the Middle East's largest Christian community. They have long complained of discrimination in the majority-Muslim country.
The new law empowers provincial governors to approve church building and renovation permits, previously the domain of security services.
Church officials see it as a step in the right direction but human rights advocates and some Christian Members of Parliament said it was prejudiced.
"This is a sectarian law that shows the state prefers the adherents of one religion over another," Ishak Ibrahim of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights told Reuters.
Activists have long campaigned for a unified places of worship law to govern mosques and churches.
"A unified law would show that the state protects the rights of all its citizens equally," said Ibrahim. "It would send a message to extremists."
The law on mosque building, issued in 2001, is much less restrictive and only discusses issues of land ownership and building regulations.
In contrast, the law approved on Tuesday stipulates that the size of a church must be proportional to the number of Christians in an area which Ibrahim says is problematic.
The government does not make the official number of Christians public in its census and Christians have long complained of being undercounted. Emad Gad, a Christian MP, demanded the stipulation be removed, but it made it into the final version of the law.
The law grants a governor the right to deny a building or renovation permit which was described as "poisonous" during the debate by MP Reda Nadeef, a Christian.
Sectarian violence often erupts on the back of suspicions that Christians are building churches.
Homes are burned, crops are razed, churches are attacked and, occasionally, Christians are forced to leave their villages, say human rights groups and residents.
The law is suitable provided officials are well intentioned, said Bishop Makarios, the highest Coptic Orthodox Church official in Minya, a southern province home to Egypt's largest Christian community.
This was echoed by officials from other sects. The law is "a massive jump after 160 years of legislation governing church building and renovation," said Father Rafik Greish, a spokesman for the Coptic Catholic Church, referring to the Ottoman-era laws governing this matter.
All nine representatives from the ultra-conservative Islamist Nour Party voted against the law.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany and other European Union countries turned a blind eye to the refugee crisis building on its external borders for too long, Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a German newspaper interview to be published on Wednesday.
Merkel, who has faced criticism in Germany for launching her policies of welcoming refugees a year ago, also told the Sueddeutsche Zeitung that Germany and the EU will need patience and endurance in dealing with migration of people to Europe.
"There are political issues that one can see coming but don't really register with people at that certain moment - and in Germany we ignored both the problem for too long and blocked out the need to find a pan-European solution," she said.
Merkel made the comments in an unusually self-critical analysis that appeared to be timed to the one-year anniversary on Wednesday of her now-famous statement "wir schaffen das", or "we can do this", when asked about the rising tide of refugees.
Her conservative party is expected to take a beating in two regional elections next month in part due to her refugee policies.
She said Germany, which has taken in most of the more than 1 million refugees from the Middle East and Asia who arrived in the EU in the past year, had let Spain and other EU border countries deal with the refugees on their own.
"Back then, we also rejected a proportional distribution of the refugees," she said.
Merkel said Germany had not supported models such as the Frontex European border agency that would have impinged on the sovereignty of the EU member states. "We said we would deal with the problem at our airports since we don't have any other external EU boundaries. But that doesn't work."
The three-term chancellor said refugees will be a long-term issue.
"We didn't embrace the problem in an appropriate way," she added. "That goes as well for protecting the external border of the Schengen area," she said, referring to the EU's passport-free and frontier-free zone.
Merkel said the EU needed to improve cooperation with and dramatically increase development aid to countries in Africa as well as Turkey and other troubled regions.
Merkel said Germany had long been content to focus on other problems after years of welcoming refugees from the wars in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. "I cannot deny that," she said.
She admonished German politicians to express themselves in moderate terms and not participate in the current ratcheting up of rhetoric about threats.
A number of Germans had always had a certain racism towards foreigners and were willing to commit violent acts for that cause, but that tendency had grown over the past year, she said.
The German leader, the daughter of pastor, also cautioned against equating all migrants with terrorists. "It's simply incorrect to say that terrorism came only with the refugees," she said. "It was already here in myriad forms and with the various potential attackers that we have been watching."
BEIJING (Reuters) - An American businesswoman held in China since March last year has been charged with spying, China's Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday, the latest development in a case that has added to U.S.-China tensions.
Sandy Phan-Gillis, from Houston, Texas, who is of Chinese ancestry and is a naturalized U.S. citizen, was arrested in March 2015 and had been held without charges since then.
"Based on our understanding, Phan-Gillis, because of her suspected crimes of espionage, has been charged according to law by the relevant Chinese department," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters at a regular briefing.
"China is a country ruled by law. The relevant Chinese department will handle the case strictly according to law," she said, without elaborating.
It was unclear what violations the charge covers.
News of the charges against Phan-Gillis comes just ahead of a visit to China by U.S. President Barack Obama, who will arrive on Saturday for a G20 summit in the city of Hangzhou. Obama is scheduled to hold bilateral meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday.
Obama's visit comes at a time of heightened U.S. tensions with China, particularly over Beijing's extensive territorial claims in the South China Sea, but also over issues such as cyber spying.
In July, a Chinese man, Su Bin, 51, was sent to prison for 46 months in the United States after pleading guilty to conspiring to hack into the computer networks of major U.S. defense contractors. [nL1N19Z22H]
A U.S. State Department official said the United States was "deeply concerned" about Phan-Gillis' welfare and had repeatedly pressed China to provide further details of the case and to allow U.S. consular officers "full and unfettered" access to her.
"We urge Chinese authorities to explain the reasons for Ms. Phan-Gillis’ ongoing detention," the official said.
The official said the United States was also calling on China to "to review and consider seriously" the recommendation  of the U.N. Working Group on Arbitrary Detention that Phan-Gillis be released.
The Chinese government has chided the U.N. group for saying her detention violated international human rights norms.
The U.S. consulate in Guangzhou had been providing consular assistance to Phan-Gillis, including monthly consular visits, the State Department official said.
Her husband, Jeff Gillis, said the "charges are absolutely false," and called for her release.
He said the charges include an accusation that his wife went on a spy mission to China in 1996. Her passport at that time shows that she made no trip to China that year, he said in a statement.
Phan-Gillis had said in a letter transcribed by a U.S. consular official in China that her detention was because of politics and not for any crime.
She visited China on a trade delegation from Houston and was detained while attempting to cross from the southern city of Zhuhai to Macau.
China's state secret law is extremely broad, encompassing everything from industrial data to top leaders' birthdays. Information can also be declared a state secret retroactively.
There is no independent oversight of China's law enforcement authorities or courts, which answer to the ruling Communist Party.
MONTEVIDEO (Reuters) - A former Guantanamo Bay prisoner arrived in Uruguay on Tuesday after being deported from Venezuela, where he set off alarm bells for travelling without proper documents and was detained earlier this month, a government official said.
Jihad Diyab was held for 12 years in Guantanamo without being charged and was released to Uruguay in 2014 in a deal to reduce the number of detainees at the U.S. military prison.
"He arrived early this morning," Susana Muñiz, the director of Uruguayan health services said on local television, adding that he was being taken for a medical check-up.
The Syrian national had not been seen in Montevideo since mid-June and arrived in Caracas by way of Brazil in late July.
Diyab's lawyer told Reuters earlier this month that he asked the Uruguayan consulate in Caracas to help him travel to Turkey where he was to meet with his family. But he was then arrested by Venezuelan security forces.
"He did not properly enter either Brazil or Venezuela, and was deported to Uruguay. He will continue to be treated as a refugee," Uruguayan Interior Minister Eduardo Bonomi told local paper El País.
News that Diyab had left Uruguay led a group of U.S. lawmakers to demand that President Barack Obama halt transfers of Guantanamo prisoners, arguing that they represented a security risk to Americans.
QAYYARA, Iraq (Reuters) - It gets darker earlier these days in the northern Iraqi town of Qayyara, which Islamic State militants abandoned about a week ago after setting fire to many of the region's oil wells.
Smoke billowing into the sky during a Reuters visit on Monday blotted out the sun in central districts hours before nightfall, producing an apocalyptic scene in this desert settlement which lacks electricity amid 49 degree Celsius (120°F) temperatures.
The Iraqi military's recapture of Qayyara, along with a nearby airbase in July, is the latest and most significant advance in a U.S.-backed push to Mosul, the largest city under Islamic State control anywhere in its self-proclaimed caliphate.
Baghdad wants to retake Mosul before the end of the year, which it says will effectively end the militants' presence in Iraq more than two years after they seized a third of its territory. Some officials from countries in the U.S.-led coalition supporting the Iraqi forces have said that timeline may be too ambitious.
Yet the loss of Qayyara certainly dealt a blow to Islamic State, which had extracted oil from some 60 wells and sold it to help finance its activities.
Islamic State used to ship at least 50 tanker truckloads a day from Qayyara and nearby Najma oilfields to neighbouring Syria. A sign remains on the main road announcing prices of  crude in places like the Syrian city of Aleppo, 550 km (340 miles) west of Qayyara.
Rudimentary refineries once used to refine oil for local consumption have been abandoned on the side of the road leading east out of the town.
The smell of petrol now overwhelms the area, wind carrying the smoke from well fires into the town centre. More than a few minutes in the area leaves one's throat burning, and children walking the streets have quickly developed coughs.
Abdel Aziz Saleh, a 25-year-old Qayyara resident, said he wants Baghdad to put out the fires as soon as possible.
"They are suffocating us," he said. "The birds, the animals are black, the people are black. Gas rains down on us at night. Now the gas has reached the residential areas."
He and other residents said oil had spilled into the nearby Tigris River - assertions denied by the oil ministry, which said the oil spills had been contained by trenches. While several bodies were seen floating in the river on Monday, Reuters could not confirm it had been contaminated with oil.
Iraq says it has put out fires at four oil wells in the Qayyara region, but Reuters could not locate any such efforts at the wells closest to residential areas.
Around a dozen separate plumes of smoke were still distinguishable across the horizon as night fell, when a convoy of firetrucks approached the town.
It was not immediately clear how long it will take to extinguish the flames. When Iraq's military torched hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells in 1991 ahead of advancing U.S.-led forces, most fires burned for around two months but some wells were not capped for almost a year.
The oil ministry said it does not expect to resume production from the Qayyara region before Mosul's recapture. The two main fields, Qayyara and Najma, used to produce 30,000 barrels per day of heavy crude before the takeover by Islamic State.
Despite the well fires, Qayyara remains full of inhabitants. Whereas civilians in most other areas recaptured from Islamic State fled ahead of or during government offensives the majority of Qayyara's roughly 20,000 residents have stayed put.
A counter-terrorism officer said that was partly due to the speed with which the army recaptured Qayyara, surprising the Islamic State fighters before they were able to dig in. Qayyara is also located near a military airfield, so many residents in the area have relatives in the army.
With no power and no more fear of punishment from Islamic State's harsh rule, much of the population was in the streets on Monday, waving to military vehicles that handed out basic supplies like cooking oil, sugar and canned food.
Children flashed peace signs and some played in the black reflective pools of oil that spilled into main streets after Islamic State blew up pipelines and wells next to a main hospital in a likely attempt to obstruct visibility for coalition air strikes.
Commanders are confident electricity can be restored soon in Qayyara and said booby trapped streets and buildings are less of a concern than they were in the western cities of Ramadi and Falluja.
"We surrounded them quickly, so they didn't have time to lay many IEDs (improvised explosive devices)," said the officer from the elite counter-terrorism service (CTS), which spearheaded the Qayyara operation along with the army's 9th armoured division.
"There were a lot on the main street they thought we would use to enter but instead we came in from the desert."
The militants still managed to put up a fight, he said, quickly mustering five vehicle-borne IEDs to attack the forces.
The approach to the city shows signs of the fighting that followed, with many buildings collapsed by aerial bombardment. The U.S.-led coalition said it had launched more than 500 air strikes in support of Iraqi forces, nearly as many as in last year's battle for the much larger city of Ramadi.
Qayyara and its nearby airbase - where the bulk of a 560-strong U.S. troop reinforcement will be based - will form the main staging base for the anticipated offensive on Mosul, 60 km (35 miles) to the north.
Many neighbourhoods in Qayyara appear mostly or completely intact, and civilians, many of whom appeared to have recently shaved the beards that Islamic State requires men to grow, said they feel safe in their homes.
After showing off the body of an Islamic State fighter crushed when the building he was in was hit by an air strike, two men from Qayyara alerted soldiers to a possible suicide bomber hiding in a nearby home, which they proceeded to investigate.
A hundred metres from the decomposing corpse, a well fire burned, spewing smoke and bright flashes into the sky.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey responded with artillery fire after rocket and gunfire from Syria hit the Turkish border town of Kilis, some 80 km (50 miles) west of where Turkish-backed Syrian rebels launched an incursion last week, a Turkish military source said.
It was not immediately clear who fired the rocket or opened fire from the Syrian side, the source said. Kilis lies across from Syrian territory controlled by Kurdish forces but also close to an area held by Islamic State militants.
A second Turkish official said three rockets had hit Kilis and that four people had been wounded.
AMMAN (Reuters) - Syria's Kurdish YPG militia said Turkish forces fired at their fighters along the border on Monday, wounding one fighter, hundreds of miles east of Turkey's main incursion into northern Syria.
Chief YPG spokesman Redur Xelil told Reuters that Turkish armoured vehicles were patrolling the area and opened fire on the YPG fighters between the Kurdish-controlled cities of Qamishli and Amouda in Syria's northern Hasaka province.
Turkish-backed forces' push into northern Syria drew a rebuke on Monday from the United States, which said it was concerned the battle had shifted away from targeting Islamic State.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish military sources on Monday denied the army fired at Syrian Kurdish YPG forces in Hasaka province, after the YPG said one of their fighters was injured by shots from Turkish forces along the border.
"It's absolutely not true," one of the sources told Reuters, adding that there was no operation by the Turkish military near Hasaka province.
Chief YPG spokesman Redur Xelil had told Reuters that Turkish armoured vehicles were patrolling the area and opened fire on the YPG fighters between the Kurdish-controlled cities of Qamishli and Amouda in Hasaka province.
MANILA (Reuters) - Twelve soldiers, including a young lieutenant, were killed in a clash with Islamic State-linked rebels on a remote southern island in the Philippines, an army spokesman said on Monday as the army offensive entered its fifth day.
Major Filemon Tan said five soldiers were also wounded in an 1-1/2 hour firefight in the jungles of Patikul town on Jolo island as troops pursued a large formation of the small but brutal Abu Sayyaf group.
"The fighting was really intense, we lost 12 men," Tan said. "You can really expect heavy casualty from both sides due to volume of fire from both sides. We don't know how many from the enemy died but there could be more than 30 rebels."
A young army lieutenant leading the troops was killed in a rebel ambush.
More than 20 Abu Sayyaf rebels had died since Thursday when the military launched an air-and-ground offensive in Patikul, an Abu Sayyaf stronghold, after President Rodrigo Duterte ordered troops to "destroy" the militant group.
The Abu Sayyaf, known for kidnapping and beheading captives, has dogged successive Philippine governments, entrenching its network with vast sums of ransom money in what has become one of Asia's most lucrative kidnapping rackets.
Security experts say the Muslim rebels are motivated less by Islamist ideology and more by the tens of millions of dollars from kidnappings.
Two Canadians and a Filipino teenager were executed this year by the Abu Sayyaf. Last week, two Indonesians escaped captivity but there was speculation the Abu Sayyaf freed them after their families paid their ransoms.
Eight Indonesians, eight Filipinos, five Malaysians, a Dutch bird watcher and a Norwegian resort manager are still being held by the Abu Sayyaf, It was not known the hostages were in Patikul jungle when the assault began on Thursday.
LIBREVILLE (Reuters) - Gabon opposition candidate Jean Ping called on President Ali Bongo on Monday to "acknowledge his defeat" in Saturday's presidential election, a head-on challenge to the Bongo family's half-century rule over the oil-rich nation.
After publishing numbers on Sunday that showed him comfortably in the lead based on a small percentage of votes, Ping called on Monday for Bongo to step down.
"I encourage Ali Bongo to submit to the verdict of the ballot box," he told a news conference, without providing more voting figures.
Bongo's camp also says it is set to win and has accused Ping's supporters of fraud. On Twitter, his spokesman Alain Claude Bilie By Nzé called Ping's news conference "the start of an odious attempt at a coup de force".
Gabonese law forbids candidates from publishing their own results before the official count, expected on Tuesday.
The country's interior minister called Ping's move to pre-empt an official announcement of the poll results by declaring victory an attempt to manipulate the democratic process.
Gabon's one-round election means the winner simply requires more votes than any other candidate. In 2009, Bongo won with 41.73 percent of the vote.
A Ping victory would reverberate throughout a region where strongmen in power for decades have often used their control of state institutions and resources to fend off political competition.
Bongo, 57, won election in the Central African nation of some 2 million people in 2009 following the death of his father Omar, who was president for 42 years.
But he has come under pressure in recent years as a sharp drop in oil prices and production have squeezed the budget and provided fodder for opposition claims that average Gabonese have struggled under his leadership.
Some opposition supporters have also called into question Bongo's Gabonese nationality by claiming he was adopted from eastern Nigeria as a baby, which the president denies.
On Monday, Ping called on the Gabonese people to "defend their choice throughout the country and overseas". He said he had told the American and French ambassadors in Libreville that he intended to guarantee the security of Bongo and his family.
The streets of Libreville remained calm despite the sparring over the result and an acrimonious election campaign.
A European Union observer mission told reporters in Libreville on Monday that it had registered irregularities during campaigning and on election day.
"The mission deplores the lack of transparency of the bodies running the election," said Mariya Gabriel, the head of an E.U. mission that observed the elections.
It said that most irregularities had benefited Bongo, including preferential access to state media and resources.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Rubbish is again accumulating on some Beirut streets after protesters blocked access to a dump, raising fears that last summer's garbage crisis, which provoked unprecedented street protests, could return.
The return of trash piles is among a number of signs of how dysfunctional Lebanon's paralysed political system has become, made worse because of sectarian tension that has increased with next door Syria's civil war.
The government has not passed a budget since 2005 and Lebanon has been without a president for more than two years.
In July last year authorities shut the main landfill site for garbage from the capital without providing an alternative, causing months of festering rubbish to pile up around the city.
That prompted massive protests in central Beirut that were unprecedented for having been mobilized independently of the big sectarian parties that dominate Lebanese politics.
Plans for alternative dumps and even to export the rubbish were all rejected by residents, politicians and activists, until two temporary dumps in Beirut were eventually found.
But these pungent seaside facilities are far from ideal: one is just 200 meters from Beirut International airport and the other adjacent to the central residential and commercial neighbourhood of Bourj Hammoud.
In April this year the Lebanese Pilots Association wrote to the government that more garbage dumped near the airport would raise the risk of birds attracted by the rubbish being sucked into aircraft engines, putting planes in danger.
With the stench from the Bourj Hammoud dump spreading to other districts in the 30 degree heat, feuding political parties have sought to mobilize Beirut residents' frustration.
Angry about the continued use of Bourj Hammoud, which the authorities are trying to develop into a long-term sanitary landfill, the Christian Kataeb political party blocked the entrance, preventing construction work.
"We have been here for 20 days to protest against filling the sea with garbage," said Roger Abi Rashed, deputy head of the local Kataeb branch.
"We are here today to tell the government to find a sustainable, not temporary, solution to the rubbish issue."
Angry that construction work was stopped, Bourj Hammoud's municipality, which was promised $25 million in development funding from the government in exchange for hosting the revamped dump, last week prevented garbage trucks entering the site.
Unable to dump waste, the private company responsible for collecting rubbish, Sukleen, stopped collecting trash from parts of Beirut and the adjoining Mount Lebanon area on Thursday.
Asked by Reuters why Sukleen could not use the other temporary dump near the airport, which is operational, a spokeswoman said Sukleen was "awaiting a disposal plan from the government".
The head of the parliamentary monetary and budgetary committee said on Monday he wanted neither the coast nor the streets of Beirut to become a dump and that there would be a meeting later this week with concerned municipalities.
More than a year after the crisis began, however, Beirut residents see little chance of a resolution soon.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The German government wants Facebook (FB.O) to be more proactive in monitoring and, if necessary, removing forbidden as well as offensive content from its social network platform.
Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere visited Facebook's offices in Berlin and said the company had done well in cooperating with authorities when help was requested but it needed to do more on its own to thwart racist comments, outlawed symbols and appeals for terror.
"Facebook has an immensely important economic position and just like every other large enterprise it has a immensely important social responsibility," said de Maiziere before urging Facebook to do more to remove such content without being asked.
The government has been critical of Facebook in the past. Political leaders and regulators have complained the world's largest social network, with 1.6 billion monthly users, had been slow to respond to hate speech and anti-immigrant messages.
Last year Justice Minister Heiko Maas told Reuters that Facebook must abide by stricter German laws banning racist sentiment even if it might be allowed in the United States under freedom of speech.
Maas said that Germany, because of its Nazi past, has zero tolerance for racist and hate posts and expected Facebook to be more vigilant.
De Maiziere recognized Facebook's efforts to develop software that can better identify outlawed content, praised its efforts to fight child pornography, and said it was right to warn users in its terms against the dissemination of illegal content.
"But it's up to the company to ensure those terms are upheld," he said. "A company with a good reputation for innovation will have to earn a good reputation in this area."
Eva-Maria Kirschsieper, Facebook's head of Public Policy in Germany, told reporters during de Maiziere's visit that the discussions between political leaders and companies in social media would continue.
"We see ourselves as part of German society and part of the German economy," she said. "And we know that we have a major responsibility and we want to live up to this responsibility. We take this issue very seriously indeed."
Earlier this year, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg came to Berlin to respond to the criticism. He said he had learned from Facebook's experience in Germany that migrants were a group of people who also needed to be protected from hate speech online.
AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - A Lebanese journalist was fined on Monday for disclosing the names of protected witnesses at the international tribunal investigating the murder of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri in 2005.
Ibrahim Al Amin and the publisher of the Akhbar Beirut newspaper, Akhbar Beirut S.A.L, were fined 20,000 and 6,000 euros respectively. The court ordered that the fine be paid by Sept. 30.
It was the latest in a series of contempt hearings at the     Special Tribunal for Lebanon, set up in 2009 to investigate the murder of Hariri and 22 others on Feb. 14, 2005.
Al Amin and his publisher were convicted in July of "knowingly and wilfully interfering with the administration of justice by publishing information on purported confidential witnesses," the court said.
The tribunal's maximum penalty for contempt is imprisonment of up to seven years in prison and a fine of up to 100,000 euros.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey carried out an air operation on Monday against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) targets in the Gara region of northern Iraq, Turkish military sources said.
The operation was carried out after intelligence was received regarding the targets, they said, adding it was not immediately clear what damage was done.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When President Barack Obama sets out this week to meet world leaders in China and Laos during his final presidential trip to Asia, he will make an unusual stop along the way.
With time running out for more action on climate change during his time in office, Obama will drop in to Midway Atoll, a far-flung and largely uninhabited coral reef that is a refuge for sharks, albatrosses and endangered turtles and seals.
The photo-rich stop is aimed at both raising awareness about the threat posed by climate change, and showcasing Obama's decision to protect a larger part of the ocean around Hawaii.
But the trip to the middle of the Pacific Ocean will also highlight the high stakes of climate change just before Obama meets world leaders in China.
"I think it's going to be an amazing sequence, and one that really matters," said Doug McCauley, a conservation biologist from University of California, Santa Barbara.
"Suddenly, you're sitting in a room with the leaders who will decide what the fate of that place is going to be," McCauley said.
The rare trip is both a signal of the importance Obama gives to climate change - and a sign of his focus in bliateral meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
The two leaders have clashed on economic and security issues, but forged common ground on climate, which helped secure a global deal to cut carbon emissions at a Paris conference last year.
"We have to recognize that climate change and clean energy cooperation has really helped to create better overall stability in the U.S.-China relationship, writ large," said Andrew Light, a former senior climate official in Obama's State Department.
Light, now with the World Resources Institute think tank, said he expects Xi and Obama will try to push other G20 leaders to agree to timelines for implementing the Paris agreement and work on cutting other greenhouse gases like methane and hydrofluorocarbons.
Any progress on climate issues could be a rare bright spot in a trip otherwise dominated by concerns about the international economy, anti-globalization sentiments and global security problems.
With less than five months left in the White House, Obama is racing to cement his record through actions he can take without help from the gridlocked U.S. Congress.
For example, at Obama's final meeting with his Canadian and Mexican counterparts, the leaders set new goals for clean energy production.
Republicans in Congress have thwarted Obama's legislative efforts on climate, and mocked him for his focus on an issue they see as less pressing than the economy and defense.
Obama also has faced criticism from environmental groups for not doing more to limit U.S. oil and gas production.
"If we're going address the climate crisis or meet our climate commitments, the vast, vast majority of fossil fuels need to remain in the ground," said Brendan Cummings, conservation director with the Center for Biological Diversity.
But former Environmental Protection Agency director Carol Browner said Obama has done what he could on climate both through leadership on the international stage, and by using existing laws to kick-start the clean energy sector and cut emissions from vehicles and power plants.
"Nobody should ever be disappointed with this president on climate change," said Browner, who led the White House climate push in Obama's first term.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish armed forces have carried out 61 artillery strikes around the northern Syrian town of Jarablus in the past 24 hours, hitting 20 targets, Turkey's military said on Monday.
The military said in a statement it was "taking all measures and showing maximum sensitivity" to prevent harm to civilians.
Turkey-backed forces pushed deeper into northern Syria on Monday, drawing a rebuke from NATO ally the United States, which said it was concerned the battle for territory had shifted away from targeting Islamic State.
MANILA (Reuters) - A Philippines senator who is leading an inquiry into the spate of killings unleashed by President Rodrigo Duterte's 'war on drugs' vowed on Monday to press on despite bizarre accusations and insults raining on her from the country's leader.
Leila de Lima told Reuters she has no fears for her own life because it would be clear who was to blame if anything happened to her, but she has been warned by people close to Duterte to stop questioning the extra-judicial killings.
"Some of my closest friends, some of my family are pleading with me 'you better stop already, stop it, stop it, keep quiet or just quit so they leave you alone'. But I cannot do that," the 57-year-old lawyer and politician said in her Senate office.
More than 1,900 people have been killed in Duterte's war on drugs since he came to power two months ago, according to police figures. Police say the toll of about 36 people a day is a result of drug dealers resisting arrest or gang feuds.
De Lima set up a Senate inquiry into the killings and held the first two hearings last week.
On Thursday, Duterte accused de Lima of taking bribes from jailed drug lords. He has also said she is having an affair with her driver and at a news conference declared she was "finished".
On Monday he attacked her again, saying de Lima had lost face as a woman and that if he were her he would hang himself.
"What they are doing to me is even worse than death. The honour, especially my womanhood, my reputation," said de Lima, who denies all the allegations Duterte has made against her.
Duterte, sometimes known as 'The Punisher', won a May election on a promise to wipe out drugs and dealers.
But there has been an outcry from human rights groups over the sheer number of deaths that followed Duterte's victory and over his incendiary rhetoric, which they say encourages police to feel they can kill with impunity.
There have been cases when police officers have killed suspected drug dealers who were in handcuffs and in custody,  civil rights lawyers have said.
There have also been hundreds of killings by anonymous gunmen. De Lima said witnesses had told her about one case involving a group of men dressed as civilians and wearing masks.
"From all indications, based on the account of those who witnessed it, those were actually police," she said. "Are these death squads? Who are they, and under whose direction are they doing that?"
She said despite Duterte's promises to go after drug syndicates and kingpins, it is mostly the poor who are dying.
"The ones being targeted are the powerless, the voiceless, the defenceless, because they are so poor. Where is the justice there, there’s so much injustice," she said.
She said her Senate committee, which is due to hold another hearing on Thursday, was seeking  facts - but it had no power to accuse or pursue any individual.
De Lima is hoping the hearings will speed the passage of legislation that has been stuck in Congress that would make extra-judicial killing a special crime with harsh penalties.
She also wants to bolster the independent Commission on Human Rights (CHR) so it has more capacity to investigate violations.
De Lima said that the CHR and the police's internal affairs service were both overwhelmed and could only do so much, and a climate of fear meant people were reluctant to speak out.
"It’s only the president who can stop all of this," she said. "I call this madness really."
CANBERRA (Reuters) - Australia on Tuesday released what the government says is the world's first ever how-to-guide for combating radical Islamist propaganda in Southeast Asia, which it hopes will help disrupt local recruitment efforts by groups such as Islamic State.
Australia, a staunch U.S. ally, has been on heightened alert for attacks by home-grown Islamist radicals since 2014 and authorities say they have thwarted a number of plots.
The 43-page document, entitled "Undermining Violent Extremist Narratives in South East Asia", will be accessible online and aims to provide tools to disrupt the winding path to radicalisation, said Justice Minister Michael Keenan.
"The process of radicalisation to violence is an incredibly complex issue. Terrorist propaganda affects each individual's state of mind, their thoughts and emotions differently. There is no single pathway to radicalisation," Keenan told a conference in Canberra, according to an advanced copy of his remarks shared with Reuters.
"This compendium provides practical guidance and insight for governments, policy makers and civil society organisations in Australia and Southeast Asia to support their development of effective counter-narratives that undercut the appeal of terrorist propaganda."
The document does not make for light reading. It contains tips for a successful strategy such as "protect the messenger" and "consider how military and counter-terrorism actions impact the strategic counter-narrative".
It also offers case studies and examples, such as the Burqa Avenger cartoon in Pakistan, in which a teenage Muslim heroine battles extremist villains with books, analysing their success in countering narratives put forward by increasingly media-savvy militant groups.
About 100 people have left Australia for Syria to fight alongside organisations such as Islamic State, Australia's Immigration Minister said this year.
Canberra has been increasingly focused in recent years on preventing the spread of militant Islamism to its neighbours in Southeast Asia, which have large Muslim populations and, it is feared, could link up with its own home-grown militants.
Earlier this year, Australian police arrested five men suspected of planning to sail a small boat from the far north to Indonesia and the Philippines en route to joining Islamic State in Syria.
The men were detained after towing the seven-meter boat almost 3,000 km (1,865 miles) from Melbourne to Cairns in Queensland state.
There have been several "lone wolf" assaults in Australia, including a 2014 cafe siege in Sydney that left two hostages and the gunman dead. Also in 2014, police shot dead a Melbourne teenager after he stabbed two counter-terrorism officers.
In 2015, a 15-year-old boy fired on an accountant at a police headquarters in a Sydney suburb and was killed in a gunfight with police.
MADRID (Reuters) - Spain's Socialist leader said on Monday his party would not back acting Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's re-election and end an eight-month political impasse after meeting him for the final time before a confidence vote in parliament on Wednesday.
The Socialists' head Pedro Sanchez holds the key to unlocking the deadlock as Rajoy is just shy of the majority he needs to form a government and has run out of allies. The party's refusal to endorse their longtime rival in the vote heightens the chances of a third election in a year.
Rajoy's centre-right People's Party is six seats short of the absolute majority of 176 seats it needs in the vote, even with the support of liberal party Ciudadanos, which was agreed on Sunday, and one extra seat from a minor Canary Islands party.
The Socialists' abstention would be enough to enable a PP-led minority government under Rajoy, who won the most votes in elections in December and June but both times missed out on a majority.
Sanchez says, however, that Rajoy should instead win the support of several small regional parties which would tip him into majority territory.
"It was an unnecessary meeting," Sanchez told reporters on Monday. "It is Mr Rajoy's responsibility to reach the 176 votes, exclusively Mr Rajoy's and not the Socialists'."
If Rajoy loses Wednesday's vote, a second vote will take place on Friday where a simple majority - in which he would need only to win more votes in favour than against - would suffice to allow him to form a government.
A loss in the second vote, also likely without the support of the Socialists, would trigger a two-month window to form a government at the end of which another election would be called, possibly on Christmas Day.
Pressure has mounted on Sanchez to cave in to both the PP and Ciudadanos' demands and public opinion. Polls show most Spaniards would prefer the Socialists to enable a government led by Rajoy than face new elections.
Spain's best-selling newspaper El Pais said in an editorial on Monday that the Socialists, who it has traditionally supported, should abandon their "absurd obstinacy" in opposing the PP, blaming it on their "weakness and lack of perspective".
"The agreement signed yesterday by the PP and Ciudadanos should be sufficient to form a government, since that is its objective and that is what Spain needs now," it said.
Rajoy, however, is not yet ready to give up on winning over Spain's second-biggest party. He said after his half-hour meeting with Sanchez that he would continue to try to negotiate with them even if he failed in both investiture votes.
"To unblock does not mean to support, (the Socialists) simply would be allowing something as reasonable as Spain having a government," he told reporters.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraq has put out fires at four oil wells in the oil-producing region of Qayyara which Iraqi forces recaptured from Islamic State last week, the oil ministry said on Monday.
"Work is underway to put out flames in the remaining wells or oil spots that Daesh criminal gangs set ablaze before fleeing the city," Deputy Oil Minister Fayadh al-Nema said in the statement. Islamic State is also known as Daesh.
He didn't say how many fires were still ablaze.
The Qayyara region produces heavy sour crude and has a small refinery to process some of the oil.
ANKARA (Reuters) - No one has the right to tell Turkey which terrorist organisation it can fight, a Turkish minister said on Monday, as the NATO member faced criticism over an incursion into northern Syria which has seen clashes with Kurdish militia fighters.
"No one has the right to tell us which terrorist organisation we can fight against and which one to ignore," Turkey's minister for European Union affairs, Omer Celik, told a news conference in Ankara.
Turkey-backed forces pushed deeper into northern Syria on Monday, drawing a rebuke from NATO ally the United States, which said it was concerned the battle for territory had shifted away from Islamic State.
The United States is backing the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia in the fight against Islamic State. Turkey, part of the U.S.-led coalition fighting the Sunni hardline group, considers the YPG to be a terrorist organisation and an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - More than 70 tents were destroyed by fire on Monday in the refugee camp of Yahayawa, near the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk, but no one was injured, the United Nations' refugee agency UNHCR said.
The ministry of displacement and migration "has requested us to provide tents and core relief items CRIs to affected families", UNHCR spokeswoman in Baghdad, Caroline Gluck, said.
"We will respond with tents and CRIs without delay; the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian affairs is coordinating with other clusters to provide any other assistance needed," she said in an email.
The war with Islamic State has forced about 3.4 million people to leave their homes across Iraq, the U.N. says.
Last week, the UNHCR said that hundreds of thousands more people could be uprooted by the military assault to dislodge the militants from Mosul, the biggest city still under Islamic State control, in northern Iraq.
The Yahayawa camp houses about 500 internally displaced families and is managed by the provincial council.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Experts from Russia and Germany are in Egypt to inspect the wreckage of a Russian passenger plane that crashed in Sinai last year killing all 224 people on board, the Egyptian-led investigating committee said on Monday.
Irish, American, and French experts will join the inspection team which will seek to pinpoint the area where the plane began to break up, the committee said in a statement.
"Representatives from Russia and Germany have arrived today to inspect the wreckage of the doomed Russian Metrojet plane which crashed over the Sinai Peninsula last October," the committee said.
Parts of the wreckage had been previously gathered and moved to Cairo International Airport. The experts will attempt to reconstruct the plane.
The Airbus A321, operated by Metrojet, had been returning Russian holiday makers from the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm al-Sheikh to St Petersburg when it broke up over Sinai, killing all on board. Islamic State said it brought down the plane with a bomb smuggled inside a fizzy drink can.
Russia and Western governments quickly confirmed a bomb brought the plane down and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi later said the cause was terrorism. Britain and Russia suspended flights to Sharm al-Sheikh as a result, devastating Egyptian tourism, a lifeline of an already battered economy.
Russia is participating in the investigation as the airline's country of origin, Germany as the manufacturer's, Ireland because the plane was registered there, France because that is where it was designed, and the United States as the engine maker's country of origin.
(Reuters) - Two unusually large earthquakes hit one of Iceland's biggest volcanoes early on Monday, raising concerns of a possible eruption, the Icelandic Met Office said.
The Katla volcano has not erupted properly since 1918 and scientists say it is overdue to do so, although an eruption could still be decades away.
"It is quite a dynamic situation now, in the next hours and days following this, but as we speak at the moment we do not see any signs that there is an imminent hazardous unrest about to happen," Matthew Roberts, a natural hazards scientist at the Icelandic Met Office, said.
Ash from an eruption of the nearby Eyjafjallajokull volcano in 2010 shut down much of Europe's airspace for six days.
Katla, in southern Iceland, was rocked by quakes of magnitude 4.5 and 4.6 overnight. The volcano sustained similar movements in 2011.
The volcano is covered by an ice cap, which should, in the event of an eruption, typically contain the lava for around 60 to 90 minutes, giving time to alert the population and international air traffic, Roberts said.
TUNIS (Reuters) - Islamist militants killed three Tunisian soldiers and wounded seven others on Monday, opening fire on them with rifles and rocket propelled grenades after their patrol hit anti-tank landmines, an army spokesman said.
Jihadists use the remote, mountainous region along the Algerian border as a base and the military has been hunting them down in the rugged terrain with patrols and air strikes on suspected training camps.
Army spokesman Belhassen Ouslati said the three soldiers had been killed in the landmine blast and that clashes were continuing after the ambush in the Mount Sammama area.
Since the 2011 uprising against autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, Tunisia's democracy has been held up as a model for a region wrecked by violence and instability. But Islamist militants are one of the key challenges for the new Prime Minister Youssef Chahed, who officially took office on Monday.
A local Al Qaeda affiliate, Okba Ibn Nafaa, has been based in the Mount Chaambi range. Some of its leadership is Algerian while some foreign militants fled there after the French intervention in Mali.
Militants occasionally carry out attacks on army patrols and checkpoints in the remote areas around Mount Chaambi, and occasionally raid local homes for food and supplies.
Islamic State has also drawn several thousands Tunisian jihadists to its ranks in Syria, Iraq and more recently in neighboring Libya. Tunisian authorities are concerned about returning jihadist carrying out attacks at home.
Three major attacks claimed by Islamic State in Tunisia last year badly hit the country's tourism industry just as the government tries to embark on an ambitious economic reform program to cut public spending and create jobs.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Uncoordinated operations and manoeuvres in northern Syria will give Islamic State more space, the U.S. Department of Defense said on Monday, calling on Turkey and Syrian opposition groups to stop fighting each other.
In a statement, it also said the United States had reiterated a demand that the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia cross back to the east of the Euphrates river and it understood that such a movement had "largely occurred".
In a cross-border campaign in Syria, Turkey and its Syrian rebel allies have seized territory controlled by Kurdish-aligned forces. Turkish officials say their goal is to drive out Islamic State and prevent Kurdish forces extending its area of control.
Kurdish YPG fighters are backed by the United States in the fight against Islamic State. Turkey sees the YPG as an extension of the Kurdish PKK militant group that has waged a three-decade-old insurgency on Turkish soil.
DHAKA (Reuters) - The United States believes that elements of Islamic State are "connected" to operatives in Bangladesh, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday, promising help with intelligence and law enforcement after a wave of militant attacks.
Kerry's blunt statement followed the July 1 attack on a cafe in an upscale district of the Bangladeshi capital, Dhaka, in which 22 people were killed - mostly non-Muslims and foreigners, including one American.
It directly contradicted the narrative of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's government, which has blamed homegrown militants and denied a foreign hand in the hostage taking at the Holey Artisan Bakery that was claimed by Islamic State.
The cafe raid was the most shocking of a series of atrocities that has included killings of atheist intellectuals, people from religious and sexual minorities and foreigners, raising fears over the stability of the mainly Muslim nation of 160 million.
Responding to questions after giving a speech, Kerry said he had a "very candid" conversation with Hasina.
He said that Islamic State had wide contacts around the world, including in South Asia, adding: "They are connected to some degree with some of the operatives here, and we made that very clear in our conversations."
As Kerry's motorcade headed to the U.S. embassy for meetings with opposition leaders, a government minister directly contradicted him.
"I told him that there is no such terrorist or militants from outside or who are connected with the (Islamic State), but there are militants inside our country and they are homegrown," Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan told Reuters.
Bangladesh's secular government has continued to enjoy the West's support despite mounting concerns over its handling of the escalation in militant activity.
Bangladesh's security response has, say analysts, been coloured by a political standoff with the Islamist-leaning opposition that boycotted the last general election and is suspected by the government of links to local militant groups.
Michael Kugelman of The Wilson Center, a Washington-based think tank, said the U.S administration had not paid enough attention to the growing terror threats in Bangladesh, which is now impacting Americans.
"It has arguably taken its eye off the ball even as this threat has begun to directly affect Americans," he said.
Police believe that Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, a local militant group that has pledged allegiance to Islamic State, was involved in organising in the cafe attack.
Two days before Kerry's visit, security forces said they had killed three militants, including a Bangladeshi-born Canadian citizen called Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury who was suspected of being the mastermind.
Chowdhury is reported to have been the subject of a profile in an Islamic State journal called Dabiq that identified him as its top operative in Bangladesh. The Syria-based militant group also published "selfie" photos of the cafe attackers on its propaganda channels while the hostage crisis was continuing.
Kerry said "there is much we can do to cooperate" in the fields of intelligence and law enforcement to address security threats from both domestic and trans-national organizations.
"That's the nature of the beast that we are dealing with today," Kerry said. "I'm absolutely confident that we will build additional capacity and it will be effective."
In a speech, Kerry also touched on the need to uphold democratic principles "to defeat terrorists" and expressed concern over upholding the rights of workers.
Bangladesh's economy depends heavily on the fortunes of the $28 billion garment industry, which is struggling to improve a poor safety record epitomized by the Rana Plaza disaster of 2013 in which a factory collapse killed more than 1,100 people.
Kerry was making his first visit to Bangladesh. His armoured SUV hit a gate in front of the U.S. embassy, but he was not hurt.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - The Iraqi government and the Kurdish regional authorities in northern Iraq will discuss a dispute on oil revenue sharing during bilateral talks on Monday, a government spokesman said.
The oil issue will be among the topics to be discussed in Baghdad by Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi and Nechirvan Barzani, the prime minister of the Kurdistan Regional Government.
Iraq's oil ministry said on Friday it would consider selling crude through Iran should talks with the autonomous Kurdish region about oil exported through Turkey fail.
KARKAMIS, Turkey (Reuters) - Turkey's army and its allies thrust deeper into Syria on Sunday, seizing territory controlled by Kurdish-aligned forces on the fifth day of a cross-border campaign that a monitoring group said had killed at least 35 villagers.
Turkish warplanes roared into northern Syria at daybreak and artillery pounded what security sources said were sites held by the Kurdish YPG militia, after the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported fierce overnight fighting around two villages.
Turkey said 25 Kurdish militants were killed in its air strikes and denied there were civilian casualties.
There was no immediate comment from the YPG, but forces aligned with the group have said it had withdrawn from the area prior to the assault.
Turkey, which is also battling Kurdish insurgents at home, sent tanks and troops into Syria on Wednesday to support its Syrian rebel allies. The Turkish-backed forces first seized the Syrian border town of Jarablus from Islamic State militants before pushing south into areas held by Kurdish-aligned  militias. They have also moved west towards Islamic State areas.
Turkish officials say their goal in Syria is as much about ensuring Kurdish forces do not expand the territory they already control along Turkey's border as it is about driving Islamic State from its strongholds.
However, the Turkish offensive has so far focussed on forces allied to the Kurdish-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a coalition that includes the YPG, an Observatory source said.
The SDF has support from the United States -- which sees the group as an effective Syrian ally against Islamic State, putting Turkey at odds with a fellow NATO member and further complicating Syria's five-year-old civil war.
The conflict began as an uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and has since drawn in regional states and world powers.
The Observatory, a Britain-based monitoring group with a network of sources in Syria, said Turkish-allied forces had seized at least two villages south of Jarablus, Jub al-Kousa and al-Amarna, that were held by militias loyal to the SDF.
The fighting killed 20 civilians in Jub al-Kousa and 15 in al-Amarna, while scores more were wounded, the group said.
Turkish-backed rebels said they had seized a string of villages south of Jarablus controlled by SDF-aligned forces and had moved west to take several villages held by Islamic State.
Turkish security sources said warplanes and artillery had hit YPG sites south of Jarablus and towards Manbij, a city captured by the SDF this month in a U.S.-backed operation.
Colonel Ahmed Osman, head of the Turkish-aligned Sultan Murad rebel group, told Reuters the force was "certainly heading in the direction of Manbij" and hoped to take it.
Ankara wants to stop Kurdish forces gaining control of an unbroken swathe of Syrian territory on Turkey's frontier, which it fears could embolden the Kurdish PKK militant group that has waged a three-decade insurgency in Turkey.
A Reuters witness in Karkamis, a Turkish border town, heard jets and artillery strike within Syria. A Turkish official told Reuters heavier air strikes could come in the hours ahead.
Turkey said one of its soldiers was killed on Saturday when a rocket that it said came from a YPG-controlled area hit a tank. It was the first Turkish death reported in the campaign.
Turkey has suffered shock waves from the conflict raging in its southern neighbour, including bombings by Islamic State. The government suspects the jihadist group was behind a blast at a wedding this month that killed 54 people in southeastern Turkey.
President Tayyip Erdogan struck a defiant note during a visit to the site of the wedding attack. "Our operations against terrorist organisations will continue until the end," he told a rally of thousands of supporters on Sunday.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Polish Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski on Monday criticised the European Commission's handling of last year's migrant crisis, saying that Brussels had exacerbated the problems rather than offering real solutions.
The EU took "hasty, irresponsible and not-fully thought through steps" in response to a massive influx of refugees from Iraq, Syria and other war-torn regions, Waszczykowski said at a news conference with his German and French counterparts.
His comments came a day after Germany, Poland and France agreed to bridge their differences over issues such as migration and shore up support for the EU by reinvigorating the Weimar Triangle, a trilateral group founded after the end of the Cold War.
Waszczykowski has been relentless in his critique of the European Union's executive leadership and blames its policies for Britain's vote to leave the bloc.
Poland's euro sceptic ruling party (PiS) is at loggerheads with Brussels over issues including its constitutional court, migrant policy, climate policy and logging in ancient forests.
Waszczykowski also criticised other EU countries for not acting to secure the external borders of the EU and said the practice had been tolerated for years.
"We are now discovering with surprise that there are double standards in the European migration policy," he said.
VIENNA (Reuters) - The far right is ahead in Austria's presidential race, according to opinion polls which predict a win for the anti-immigration candidate that would be a watershed for populists across Europe who have capitalised on the migration crisis.
Ahead of the Oct. 2 election, the Freedom Party's (FPO) Norbert Hofer is just ahead of his independent rival, Alexander Van der Bellen, who narrowly beat Hofer in a previous run-off vote in May that was annulled.
Concerns about security and national identity as well as dissatisfaction with traditional, more centrist parties, have fuelled support for the FPO as well as the Front National in France and the far-right party Alternative for Germany (AfD).
A poll of 600 people published by the Oesterreich tabloid showed the average support for Hofer at 53 percent, one point higher than a poll in late July, versus 47 percent for former Greens head Alexander Van der Bellen.
Another poll, of 778 people with a margin of error of 3.6 percent, published by newspaper Kurier, found 38 percent thought Hofer would win while 34 percent expected Van der Bellen to.
In polls for parliamentary elections set for 2018, the FPO regularly attracts more than 33 percent, ahead of both ruling centrist parties.
Hofer, whose party argued against joining the European Union in a referendum on membership in 1994, has said Austrians should hold a vote on leaving the bloc if Turkey were to join or if significantly more political power were transferred to Brussels.
The Freedom Party challenged the previous run-off result, which showed Van der Bellen winning by 31,000 votes. A court decided the election had to be re-run due to sloppiness in the count, although no evidence of manipulation was found.
Although Austria's president plays a largely ceremonial role, he can dismiss the cabinet.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Iran's military detected a U.S. drone entering Iranian airspace on Monday and issued a warning for it to leave, which it subsequently did, Iran's Tasnim news agency reported.
"Iran's army air defence detected and warned an American drone in the eastern airspace of the country. It was coming from Afghanistan. The drone left the area," Tasnim quoted the Iranian military as saying.
Tasnim gave no details on how the Iranian authorities had warned the unmanned drone to leave its airspace.
A U.S. defence official said last week that four of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) vessels "harassed" a U.S. warship on Tuesday near the Strait of Hormuz.
Tehran said the ships had only been carrying out their regular duties monitoring foreign ships near Iranian waters.
ROME (Reuters) - The basilica of Saint Benedict in the medieval town of Norcia swayed but held up last week when a 6.2 magnitude earthquake rocked mountainous central Italy.
Just 24 km (15 miles) away in Amatrice, which used to bill itself as the town of 100 churches, the historic center was flattened and not a single holy place escaped undamaged.
The fact that a town in the main quake zone was largely unscathed while others have been crushed might have a lot to do with the vagaries of seismic shocks, which can bring disproportionate damage depending on land formation.
But it might also be because picture-postcard Norcia has consistently invested in anti-seismic protection for its ancient buildings, while its less famous neighbors have not.
Norcia represents the exception, not the rule in Italy, where the majority of buildings were constructed more than a century ago, well before anti-seismic norms were introduced. The question is whether the heavily indebted country has the will and the money to safeguard all its homes and cultural treasures.
Italy is home to more UNESCO world heritage sites than any other nation, with architectural and artistic masterpieces ranging from Greek and Roman remains to the frescoes of the late Mediaeval painter Giotto and residences or "palazzi" of the Renaissance and Baroque periods.
But it is also an active seismic zone, experiencing 36 earthquakes with a magnitude of 5 and above since 1900. Almost every one has brought death and destruction, with nearly 300 people dying in the latest disaster.
Such tragedies inevitably trigger rounds of recriminations about why successive governments haven't done more to defend Italians' lives and heritage.
"We should get to the churches, monuments and palazzi before the quakes do, but we always end up chasing them," says Paolo Clemente from Italy's multidisciplinary research center ENEA.   "If everything is left as it is, our cultural heritage is destined to die...".
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, like other leaders before him, has promised a renewed push to bolster the flimsy earthquake defenses and met the celebrated Italian architect Renzo Piano on Sunday to help devise a national prevention plan.
But like many Italians, Renzi has a fatalistic streak.
"It's illusory to think you can control everything," he said last Thursday. "It's hard to imagine that (this disaster) could have been avoided simply using different building technology. We're talking about towns dating back to the Middle Ages."
Many experts disagree, saying Italy's towns and cities can be protected so long as you have a very deep pocket.
"It is possible to reconcile (artistic) beauty with security when you have money," said Caterina Bon Valsassina, Italy's director general of cultural heritage, arts and landscape. "Once we were rich, but we aren't anymore."
Some 40 billion euros ($45 billion) would be needed to secure Italy's public buildings, according to the National Engineers' Association. The bill would go up to 360 billion euros to upgrade all the building stock, the country's employers association Confindustria estimates.
Italy has the largest debt mountain in the European Union as a proportion of its output after Greece, and its economy has barely grown in the last 17 years. This means there is very little money for major new budget items, such as nationwide earthquake-proofing.
Government adviser Mauro Grassi says Italy should spend 4 billion euros a year for the next 20 years on disaster prevention programs, arguing that this is roughly what the country is spending now on disaster response and reconstruction.
But even if it did, there is no guarantee it would be spent wisely, with corruption, bureaucracy, shoddy workmanship and organized crime all lurking in the shadows.
Amatrice's main school was reopened in 2012 after the local authorities spent 700,000 euros on a refurbishment, including anti-seismic protection. It now lies in ruins.
"If these buildings had been constructed like they are in Japan, then they would not have collapsed," prosecutor Giuseppe Saieva, who is leading an inquiry into why so many buildings collapsed last week, told la Repubblica newspaper.
The reconstruction effort in L'Aquila, a 13th century city walloped by an earthquake in 2009, is still many years from completion. Seven building contractors were arrested in 2014 on allegations they were working with the Mafia.
Other delays have been caused by often bewildering red tape that would surely snarl any significant campaign to retrofit buildings with anti-seismic protection.
A recently introduced code for assigning public work contracts includes 220 norms. It is designed to root out graft but local authorities say it is a tangled nightmare to follow.
Ironically, not all the money that is currently offered by the government to encourage individuals to safeguard their property is used, partly because of bureaucracy.
Following the L'Aquila calamity, the government earmarked almost 1 billion euros for earthquake programs, but only 700 million euros have been committed to defined projects.
In Amatrice, the local region said funds could be spent only on primary residences, despite the fact that many of the properties were secondary, holiday homes. A town clerk then forgot to put in the applications for the handful of local people who had applied for help, missing the deadline.
Experts say that in Italy's old towns and villages, where houses are often crammed together around small squares and narrow lanes, everyone has to retrofit their homes to make it worthwhile. An earthquake proof house can survive a bad tremor only for an unproofed house to collapse into it and destroy it.
With limited resources, working out priorities is tough.
About 500 hospitals and 28,000 schools in at-risk areas do not have anti-seismic cover. Many of Italy's 51 UNESCO heritage sites are found in earthquake zones, such as the central hill town of Assisi, which was badly damaged in a 1997 quake.
It also has 6,000 sites of historical or artistic interest.
"Some hamlets might not have Giotto frescoes, but they are the expression of the beauty and culture of Italy. It is a complex beauty to protect...," says Fabio Carapezza Guttuso, a top manager of the Italian Culture Ministry.
However, the experience of Norcia shows protection is possible, with the small town upgrading its defenses in response to a 1979 earthquake that killed five and left 2,000 homeless.
Although the town's famed Monastery of St. Benedict was damaged on Wednesday, it did not collapse. Nor did any other building within Norcia's ancient walls.
"Since the earthquake that hit the valley in 1979, the mayors and the community have worked hard to spend public funds well in order to become resilient," Norcia mayor Nicola Alemanno told Reuters. "Prevention is an investment for the long-run."
($1 = 0.8932 euros)
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Islamic State has claimed a suicide bombing that killed at least 15 people and injured 16 at a wedding party near the holy Shi'ite city of Kerbala late on Sunday.
Five assailants including the suicide bomber attacked the celebration in Ain al-Tamr, west of Kerbala in southern Iraq, firing machine guns and throwing hand grenades, the police said. All the attackers were killed by security forces.
The bombing is the first in the Kerbala region since Iraqi forces dislodged Islamic State militants from their stronghold in Falluja, 80 km (50 miles) north of city.
The ultra-hardline Sunni group has been retreating since last year in the face of government forces backed by a U.S.-led coalition and Iranian-supported Shi'ite militias.
But it remains in control of parts of northern and western Iraq and continues to claim bombings all over the country, targeting mainly Shi'ite districts and cities.
A statement on the Amaq news agency that supports Islamic State said the attack was carried out by four of its suicide fighters against a "gathering of Shi'ites".
Initial reports in local media late, citing security sources, blamed the killings on a dispute between two tribes at the wedding party.
Islamic State claimed a truck bomb that killed at least 325 people in Baghdad's Karrada shopping street in July, the deadliest attack since the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein in 2003.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility for an attack that killed more than 15 people at a wedding party near the southern Shi'ite city of Kerbala, the militants' Amaq news agency said in a statement on Monday.
"Dozens were killed and wounded after four fighters from the Islamic State attacked a gathering of Shi'ites in Ain al-Tamr, south west of Kerbala," the statement said.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing at a local militia compound in the southern Yemeni city of Aden on Monday, and said the attack killed about 60 new recruits, according to the group's Amaq news agency.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian customs officers seized a record 95 kg (210 lb) of cocaine from a cruise ship docked in Sydney Harbour following a joint operation at the weekend and leading to the arrest of three Canadians, they said on Monday.
It was the biggest drug seizure at an airport or a cruise ship in Australia, Tim Fitzgerald, a regional commander at the Australian Border Force, said.
Customs officers boarded the vessel and searched cabins with the help of sniffer dogs, they said in a statement.
"It was during the search of the cabin ... that we identified a number of suitcases in the cabin itself that were locked. Itemizer or trace technology was used to scan the outside of those suitcases and as a result a number of tests came positive for the presence of cocaine," Fitzgerald said.
The Canadians were charged with importing a commercial quantity of cocaine, for which the maximum penalty is life imprisonment.
ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - Pakistan's Supreme Court on Monday upheld verdicts and death sentences in the cases of 16 civilians convicted of terrorism-related offences by military courts, the first time the highest court has ruled on the legality of cases tried by the military.
A five-member bench ruled that the appellants had not proved the military violated their constitutional rights or failed to follow procedure, in a blow to some activists who contend the courts routinely violate people's rights.
Pakistan's government empowered military courts to try civilian terrorism suspects in January 2015, following an attack by Pakistani Taliban militants on a school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 pupils.
The military has so far convicted 104 civilians in the secret tribunals. Of those, 100 have been sentenced to death, and four to life imprisonment. All but six are said by the military to have confessed.
Those whose appeals were dismissed on Monday included nine members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and two al-Qaeda members, according to Pakistan's military. Two convicts are said to have been involved in the Peshawar school killings.
Pakistan has been battling the TTP, an umbrella organisation of militant groups fighting to impose strict Islamic law, and its allies including al-Qaeda since 2007.
Lawyers for all 16 convicts contended their clients had been tried in secret, without access to legal counsel of their choice, and that their confessions had been recorded illegally. They also claimed they were denied access to military court records when preparing their appeals.
The complaints echoed those made by lawyers and families of those convicted by the courts to Reuters. Two families and one lawyer said they had been threatened after filing appeals. Several told Reuters that confessions were "coerced" by the military.
Sajid Ilyas Bhatti, the deputy attorney general representing the government, denied the appellants' claims, saying they had been accorded their rights.
He argued that military court proceedings were "immune from challenge on the ground of any alleged violation of the fundamental rights".
In its 182-page judgment, the court concluded that the appellants failed to prove wrongdoing on the part of the military authorities.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Two Turkish soldiers were killed in clashes in the largely Kurdish southeastern Hakkari province near the border with Iraq on Monday, Dogan news agency said.
No further details were immediately available. Violence in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast has flared since a 2-1/2-year-old ceasefire between the state and the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) fell apart in July 2015.
NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) -  The first hybrid rice varieties developed in sub-Saharan Africa are yielding up to four times more than other improved varieties, say scientists, who are using web-based tools to identify the right climate conditions to maximise harvests.
The 15 hybrids, bred in Kenya and Tanzania, are also tolerant to diseases and the high temperatures found in Kenya's western Lake Region and coastal areas.
Local farmers have always depended on imported hybrid rice varieties, particularly from Asia, which sometimes do not adapt well to conditions in sub-Saharan Africa.
As the climate shifts and arable land shrinks under population pressure, experts say there is a need for more innovative ways to produce food.
Africa's food deficit is projected to increase to 60 million metric tonnes by 2020 if no action is taken, according to the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA).
Joe DeVries, director of an AGRA programme to strengthen Africa's seed systems, said productivity on the continent is limited by the fact that farmers have a narrow choice of improved varieties.
“Most of them (are) planting varieties that were released more than 30 years ago,” he said.
Denis Kyetere, executive director of the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), which has developed the new hybrids in a public-private partnership, said hybrid technology had revolutionised rice production in Asia, especially in China.
Asia’s productivity dramatically increased from an average of 1.89 metric tonnes per hectare in 1949 to 6.71 tonnes per hectare in 2012.
“With this technology, we look forward to Africa being able to feed Africa,” said Kayode Sanni, project manager for rice at the AATF. In 2014, Africa imported 12 million tonnes of rice, mostly from Asia, he noted.
The AATF, in collaboration with private firm Hybrids East Africa Limited, has so far developed 140 hybrid rice varieties using African parent lines.
Of these, 15 – each yielding 7 to 10 tonnes per hectare - have been presented to the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (KEPHIS) for national performance trials.
U.S.-based aWhere Inc, a partner in the hybrid rice project, has developed web-based tools that allow scientists to determine when and where to conduct breeding, seed multiplication and seed production to take advantage of the best climate conditions.
Improved inbred rice varieties, such as the New Rice for Africa (NERICA) lines, are already in use on African farms.
With this method, two different parent varieties are cross-bred, and their offspring are selected through several cycles of self-pollination, or inbreeding, to get the desired result.
The end product has the ability to reproduce itself through self-pollination because the rice plant flowers contain both the male and female organs.
With hybrid varieties, the parent plants are crossed separately with new varieties, and the offspring from those crosses are united to produce a first-generation hybrid seed, which performs better than both parents. The process is repeated each time.
Currently, the average yield of inbred rice varieties in sub-Saharan Africa is 2.3 tonnes per hectare. But in trials, some of the new hybrids have produced between 7 and 10 tonnes per hectare, said Sanni, more than the breeders had hoped for.
“I think it is a tremendous breakthrough,” he added.
One potential problem is that seeds harvested from hybrid plants are not recommended for replanting because their superior performance is lost due to genetic separation, resulting in a lower yield.
That means farmers do not save seed from their harvest to plant again, and seed companies must cross the parent materials every season to produce new hybrid seed for planting.
“This has always been a setback - particularly for farmers who cannot afford higher prices of hybrid seeds. But through this project, we have developed an innovative way of helping the poor farmers, so that they can borrow the seed and pay (it) back only after harvest,” said John Mann, managing director for Afritec Seeds Ltd, which is testing more than 100 hybrid varieties under the AATF’s “Breeding by Design” project.
Although farmers will have to buy seeds each time they plant, the extra profit from the hybrids' higher yield is expected to be far higher than the cost of the seeds, said Sanni.
Apart from Egypt, which has been producing hybrid rice on a commercial scale for over a decade, no other African country had succeeded in developing its own local hybrid rice.
Egyptian farmers have improved the country’s average rice production to almost 10 metric tonnes per hectare, a feat praised by the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization and others.
Farmers who are participating in the trials in East Africa are eagerly waiting for the hybrid seeds to be officially released for commercial use – probably in less than a year, after two seasons of trials by KEPHIS.
“We have already set aside money to buy the new breeds,” said Charles Wawo, a rice farmer and chairman of the Ahero Irrigation Scheme Multi-Purpose Co-operative Society in Kisumu County in western Kenya.
Kenya and Tanzania will be the first beneficiaries of the new hybrid varieties. Trials will then be rolled out in other countries in East, West and Southern Africa, Sanni said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Triggering the procedure for Britain to exit the European Union is like turning off the engines on an airplane, a top European diplomat says: best only do it if you can see a landing strip. Otherwise, all parties risk a messy outcome.
When Britain makes its exit move - by invoking Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty - it will set the clock running on a two-year deadline to leave the EU. Keen to avoid a crash landing, officials on both sides are scoping out how to proceed.
Options include the 'neverland' possibility of simply not invoking Article 50, trying back channel talks to sharpen Britain's sense of what scenarios are possible, and hopping from an interim outcome to a more permanent post-Brexit landing site.
The first option is a non-starter for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Europe's most powerful leader and the first one Theresa May met after becoming British prime minister last month.
"The EU can't accept that," said a source close to Merkel, who has no desire to see Britain leave but has a pragmatic focus on holding the rest of bloc together, and does not believe Britain will hold a second referendum on its EU membership.
Even if the British economy's resilience in the immediate aftermath of the country's June 23 vote to leave the EU eases the economic pressure on Britain to press ahead with Brexit, May herself has said "Brexit means Brexit".
She has, however, said Britain will not trigger the exit procedure this year.
For the British government, the dilemma of when and how to make a Brexit landing is complicated by a refusal on the part of EU leaders, led by Merkel, to discuss potential outcomes until Britain invokes the exit procedure.
"We won't talk beforehand," said the source close to Merkel, speaking on condition of anonymity. Another German government official stressed the strict ban in Berlin on any pre-negotiating: "We won't talk about substance."
In the absence of formal pre-negotiations, the British government must work through the second option: peering through gaps in the clouds of European officialdom to try to work out what its post-Brexit 'landing' options are.
Such back channelling could help the British work out what is realistic in order to avoid EU negotiators balking at their position, and the clock running down on the two-year deadline.
"You can only nail it down if you are in the realm of the possible," said one European official.
A likely trade-off between EU market access (which Britain would prefer) and the free movement of people (which is does not want) will probably leave a few achievable 'landing points', leaving British officials to try to identify these in informal meetings with cagey counterparts.
Here, they may yet find a way forward. There have been indications from at least one government that there may be room for discussions, rather than negotiations, in advance of Britain triggering Article 50.
German officials have also signalled they are ready to make some concessions to strike a deal with Britain. European Affairs Minister Michael Roth has held out the possibility of London achieving "special status" in its ties with the EU after Brexit.
But European leaders do not want Britain to hold the bloc hostage by horse trading on the terms of an exit before it commits to leave. So even if British officials sharpen their sense of the kind of deal they can strike, they still face a tight timeframe to clinch a post-Brexit settlement with the EU.
Behind the scenes, there has been a growing realisation in Europe's capitals that the two-year window for negotiating Brexit is far too short.
This raises the third option being mooted by some European officials: an interim framework for Britain's ties with the EU, based on an existing model similar to that of Norway or Switzerland.
"That might be a temporary solution," said one.
Further talks could then result in another landing spot beyond the two-year negotiating window offered by Article 50.
A spokeswoman for May said the prime minister and her government were going for a "British deal", to get the best for the country.
The trickiest area is the crunch trade-off between market access and the free movement of people, which is sacrosanct to EU leaders. "The price on free movement for prosperity is high," the European official said.
One option to reduce the flow of people to Britain is for it to firm up rules around benefits such that only people from other EU countries with a firm job offer can move to the UK.
Merkel has cut May some breathing space to work out her negotiating position, resisting calls from Paris and Brussels - in the days immediately after the Brexit vote - for Britain to leave the EU "as soon as possible".
"There was a lot of testosterone flying around in the days after the referendum. That's when Merkel is at her best," said one British official. "She pulled it all back and said 'it's okay to take your time'."
But there is a limit to Merkel's patience. The source close to her said: "It's in everyone's interests to have clarity.
(Reuters) - Terminals at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) were evacuated briefly late on Sunday after reports of gunfire that police later determined were incorrect, in the second recent false alarm at a major U.S. airport.
At least two terminals were closed while security personnel checked them for anything suspicious, according to Officer Alicia Hernandez of the Los Angeles Police Department.
The central terminal's arrival and departures areas as well as all other terminals re-opened after about two hours.
An investigation was under way, Andy Neiman, head of media relations for the LAPD, said in a Twitter message.
The alert came two months after police temporarily evacuated a terminal at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport while they investigated reports of gunfire there, also later determined to be false.
A preliminary investigation of that incident, which also occurred on a Sunday evening, found no evidence of foul play or suspicious activity.
U.S. airport security officials have been on heightened alert in recent months following deadly attacks at international airports in Belgium and Turkey.
The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said on its website that air traffic to LAX was being delayed at the point of departure.
Airport authorities said in a Twitter post that an individual in a Zorro costume had been detained there, without indicating whether that incident was connected to Sunday night's scare.
Canberra (Reuters) - Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull faces a tooth and nail fight with an emboldened opposition and slew of independent lawmakers when parliament returns on Tuesday for the first time since elections last month in which he took a beating.
Turnbull called early polls to break a deadlock in the upper house Senate, where a handful of independents blocked the government's agenda of corporate tax cuts and workplace reforms for more than two years.
But the election backfired, leaving the ruling Liberal-National coalition with a one-vote majority in the lower house and dependant on either the opposition Labor Party or eight to 10 independents or minor party Senators to pass legislation.
"The government no longer has a working majority. Everything that happens in Parliament now will be affected by the weak support the prime minister has in his own party room," Labor's Manager of Opposition Business Tony Burke told Reuters.
"The Turnbull government won’t last three years. On its best day, defeat is only one vote away."
Indeed, Turnbull looks set to face his first defeat as early as this week over a government proposal to hold a plebiscite to legalize same-sex marriage.
Labor has garnered enough support from the Greens Party and independents, including newly elected Senator Derryn Hinch, to defeat a measure they call costly and unnecessary.
Turnbull enjoyed record-high approval ratings after ousting Tony Abbott in a party-room coup in 2014. Since then, his numbers have sagged as the government failed to chalk up legislative victories.
Hinch, a television personality known as "the human headline", rides into office this week on that wave of voter discontent.
"I've met every prime minister since (Robert) Menzies," he told Reuters, referring to Australia's longest serving prime minister, who left office in 1966.
"I've never seen a prime minister ... who's managed to dribble away their political cache so fast."
Further complicating matters for Turnbull is a bloc of protectionist lawmakers led by the far-right One Nation Party.
This month, Treasurer Scott Morrison officially rejected bids by two Chinese companies in the A$10 billion ($7.55 billion) sale of electricity provider Ausgrid, which was widely seen as a reaction to the protectionists' growing power.
Nationals Party Senator John Williams, who is threatening to break with the government to support a Royal Commission into the financial services sector opposed by Turnbull, acknowledged they were facing an uphill battle.
"It will be tough. But people need to make decisions for the future of our country," Williams told Reuters.
"If we don't ... then I'm sorry to say it but in years to come we're going to hit the financial brick wall and it's going to be a smash then."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union grinds back into action this week after its August break, still dazed by Britain's midsummer vote to quit the EU and facing much the same "polycrisis" as a year ago: a mass of refugees, a fragile economy, hostile Russians and, yes, those Brits, now more awkward than ever.
When President Jean-Claude Juncker makes his annual State of the Union address to Parliament in Strasbourg on Sept. 14, he might easily repeat last year's warning: the EU had a "last chance" to save itself from a tide of centrifugal nationalisms.
Last week, the EU's remaining Big Three -- German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande and their host, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi -- felt they needed to renew their vows at the wellspring of the union, the island of Ventotene, where in 1941 prisoners of Mussolini wrote a manifesto for a united Europe.
That they met on the deck of the aircraft carrier Garibaldi reinforced the sense of beleaguered leaders rallying to the EU's defence as they contemplated an obstacle-strewn political calendar for the year ahead.
The EU leaders are first preparing for a summit on Sept. 16 in Bratislava -- without Britain -- that aims to sketch out a post-Brexit future for the Union.
On Oct. 2, Hungary's right-wing prime minister, Viktor Orban, is set to deliver another slap to Brussels: a largely symbolic referendum to reject an EU quota system for relocating refugees among member states -- a scheme Juncker invested much capital in a year ago, but which has barely got off the ground.
On Nov. 8, Orban is hoping for victory for a man he calls the "valiant" Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential election. Few of Orban's EU peers are so enthusiastic. They see Trump as a disruptive maverick whose endorsement of and by Brexiteer-in-chief Nigel Farage marks him as no friend of the Union.
A Trump win could snap a transatlantic coalition on Russia  that is already fraying in Europe, where governments from Paris to Bratislava are seeking a review of Ukraine-related sanctions when measures expire at year's end. Trump might also inject a new dose of post-Brexit uncertainty for world trade.
At home, all the Big Three leaders face their own electoral challenges from eurosceptics.
It starts with Renzi, today trying to persuade Italians he has the youthful energy for rebuilding after the latest earthquake in the Apennines, unlike the scandal-tainted Silvio Berlusconi at L'Aquila in 2009, when more than 300 people died.
Probably in November, Renzi will put to a referendum the constitutional reforms he says are needed to break a political deadlock that is choking the Italian economy. Polls are tight and the eurosceptic upstarts 5-Star are gunning for the socialist premier, who is expected to resign if he loses.
Hollande is threatened with a drubbing on April 23 at the hands of far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen in the first round of France's presidential election.
Her appeal has been enhanced by Islamic State carnage in Paris and Nice and the summer row about burkinis on the beaches, although pollsters doubt she can win a May 7 runoff vote against Hollande or any other survivor from a mainstream party.
As for Merkel, she has yet to confirm she wants a fourth term at parliamentary elections due in just over a year. The biggest threat to her re-election remains her decision last year to welcome a million migrants to Germany as EU borders buckled. That has already weakened support for her conservative party.
Such threats to domestic survival have often spurred leaders to take potshots at Brussels -- even if only the British have taken it to the length of turning most voters against the EU entirely. But even if little has changed in Brussels since last summer, optimists might see reason to hope for more unity now.
While rows go on about how, indeed whether, EU states should share out the burden of asylum-seekers stranded in Greece and Italy, what is new is how few are arriving, at least in Greece.
Rights groups were outraged this year by hard-nosed deals with non-EU Balkan states to bar the routes north from Greece and with Turkey to stop Syrian refugees reaching Greece in the first place. But those deals did slash the numbers arriving.
It's something EU officials find hard to boast of. Many admit privately to unease at policies that, along with efforts to pay African governments to stop people setting off for Italy, sit uncomfortably with the Union's lofty humanitarian ideals.
But look again at Merkel, Hollande and Renzi on the Garibaldi, flagship of an EU mission off Libya that is part rescue operation and military deterrent against people smugglers, and a slightly different image of today's EU emerges.
All three spoke of Europe getting tougher and more cohesive on security. It is the kind of language that may resonate with sceptical voters dissatisfied with Europe's struggle to thrive in a globalising world and with the likes of Orban and other eastern leaders alarmed by Merkel's earlier open-door policy.
Relieved of the need to keep Britons from bolting, Juncker wrung howls of outrage last week from London's europhobic press when he called national borders "the worst invention ever". He also renewed his call for a "European army", which was long just a pipe dream for the Luxemburger as long as Britain had a veto.
The past few days have seen Merkel and a succession of other leaders she has met, including Orban, echo such hopes of joint military structures, indicating one area where EU integration may now forge ahead in response to the British departure.
That still leaves a host of issues dividing European leaders in the coming year: whether to be nice or nasty to Britain once it decides to open negotiations; how to shore up weaknesses in the economic cooperation that underpins the euro; how far to ease sanctions in the hope of better ties with Moscow.
Consensus will be a tall order. Merkel, standing on the deck of the Garibaldi, cited security, investment and youth opportunities as three priorities for a post-Brexit new start for a Europe united and strong. But, she warned: "Danger exists, of fragmentation, of selfishness, of retreating into ourselves."
MANILA (Reuters) - Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte on Monday promised rewards running to tens of thousands of dollars for information leading to the capture of police officers protecting drug syndicates and warned corrupt officials they would face "a day of reckoning".
In a National Heroes Day speech, Duterte said there would be no let-up in a "war on drugs" in which - according to police figures - more than 1,900 people have been killed since he came to power two months ago.
Police say the toll of about 36 people a day is a result of drug dealers resisting arrest or gang feuds.
Duterte railed against critics who have complained that the poor who trade drugs to make a living are being targeted by the police, but added that army generals, city mayors, governors and police involved in the drug trade must also be stopped.
"I consider the fight against drugs a war, there is a crisis in this country, it is drugs ... it has infected every nook and corner," he said in the speech to retired and serving soldiers, government officials and foreign diplomats.
Singling out corrupt policemen known as "ninjas", who take pay-offs from drug lords, Duterte said he was placing a 2 million peso ($43,000) bounty on their heads, telling their colleagues to "squeal on your friends".
Duterte, who won a May election on a promise to wipe out drugs and dealers, last month named about 160 officials, judges, police and soldiers who he said were protecting drug traffickers or selling drugs in their communities.
The United States, a close ally of the Philippines, said last week it was "deeply concerned" about the reports of extra-judicial drug killings and it urged Duterte's government to ensure that law-enforcement efforts "comply with its human rights obligation".
The crackdown and some strongly worded criticism Duterte has made of the United States since coming to power present a dilemma for Washington, which has been seeking to forge unity among allies in Asia in the face of an increasingly assertive China, especially in the strategic South China Sea.
This month, two U.N. human rights experts urged Manila to stop the extra-judicial executions and killings. Duterte responded by threatening to leave the United Nations.
In his speech on Monday Duterte scoffed at accusations that he was trampling on human rights and said law enforcers should not worry about criminal liability while acting on his campaign.
In the early hours of Monday a suspected drug lord and his wife were shot dead by a gunman as they stepped off a ferry in the central province of Iloilo, national police spokesman Dionardo Carlos said.
Police said the man, Melvin Odicta who was also known as "Dragon", was returning from Manila where last week he had met the interior minister to deny accusations that he was the region's top drug dealer.
National Police chief Ronald dela Rosa said on Friday he did not believe Odicta, telling officers: "Who are they fooling?"
In a speech to thousands of drug users and pushers the previous day, dela Rosa encouraged them to kill drug lords because they were getting rich at the expense of the poor.
"You want to kill them, then kill them, you can kill them because you are their victims here. You know who are the drug lords here, go to their houses, pour gasoline, set it on fire, show them you are angry at them."
He later apologized for the comments.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday Turkey's pursuit of militant groups would be unrelenting, speaking in the city of Gaziantep where a suicide bomber believed to be backed by Islamic State attacked a wedding this month and killed 54.
"Our operations against terrorist organisations will continue until the end," he told a rally of thousands of flag-waving supporters, citing militant groups such as Islamic State, Kurdish insurgents PKK and supporters of a U.S.-based cleric blamed for masterminding last month's failed coup.
Erdogan said a cross-border offensive into Syria was giving people who fled Islamic State-controlled areas a chance to return home, including to the town of Jarablus. "People who it belongs to are coming back," he said.
The president also repeated that he would approve reinstituting the death penalty if parliament backed it, an issue that has put it odds with the European Union, a bloc Turkey has long aspired to join.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States on Sunday condemned the Venezuelan  government’s decision to move Daniel Ceballos, a former opposition mayor accused of fomenting protests, to prison from house arrest and called for his immediate release.
State Department spokesman John Kirby said Ceballos’s transfer on Saturday “represents an effort to intimidate and impede the Venezuelan people's right to peacefully express their opinion Sept. 1,” when the opposition plans a major demonstration against the government of President Nicolas Maduro.
Ceballos was arrested in 2014 on accusations he helped lead violent unrest in the tumultuous western city of San Cristobal, where he was mayor. He denies the accusations.
Opposition leaders called his arrest an effort to quash dissent and describe Ceballos as a political prisoner. Maduro calls him a criminal who sought to destabilise the country, and denies Venezuela holds political prisoners.
Patricia de Ceballos said agents from the Sebin intelligence service arrived at their residence in the capital Caracas at around 3 a.m. on Saturday saying they were going to conduct a medical exam for her husband, who was granted house arrest in 2015 for health reasons.
The interior ministry said Ceballos' house arrest had been suspended because he had attempted to escape from his home and planned to stir up violence at the Sept. 1 demonstration.
“The United States is deeply disturbed by the Venezuelan government's decision to move opposition leader Daniel Ceballos from house arrest to prison,” Kirby said in a statement.
“The basic underpinnings of the rule of law in Venezuela have degraded to an alarming degree. There is no place in a democratic society for employing the instruments of the state to bully, intimidate and silence the political opposition,” he said.
Venezuela has faced intense international pressure to free jailed opposition leaders including Ceballos and Leopoldo Lopez, another former mayor who was also imprisoned in 2014 in connection with anti-government demonstrations.
The issue complicated a rapprochement effort last year between Caracas and Washington, which have been at ideological loggerheads since the 14-year rule of late socialist leader Hugo Chavez.
(Reuters) - A bus with an unlicensed driver spun out of control near New Orleans on Sunday, killing two people and injuring 41, while taking volunteers to help with Louisiana flood relief, officials said.
St. John the Baptist Fire District Chief Spencer Chauvin was among those killed in the early morning crash after the chartered bus slammed into him as he tried to help victims of another accident, Louisiana State Police spokeswoman Melissa Matey told reporters at a news conference.
Two other firefighters were injured in the crash, one critically, and a passenger in another vehicle struck by the bus died at the scene, the spokeswoman said.
The driver, who was unauthorised to drive a commercial vehicle, was in custody and would be booked on suspicion of negligent homicide, reckless driving and driving without a licence, Matey said.
"All three firemen were thrown over the guard rail and into the water below," Matey said.
The incident started when a speeding pickup truck spun out of control, bouncing from one side of the road to the other before coming to rest along the right lane and shoulder of Interstate 10 near the community of Laplace, about 25 miles (40 km) northwest of New Orleans, Matey said.
The firefighters and state police troopers were on scene to investigate when the bus, also out of control, slammed into the fire truck and a Toyota Camry, Matey said. Jermaine Starr, a passenger in the Camry, was pronounced dead at the scene.
It was not immediately clear why the bus driver, Denis Yasmir Amaya Rodriguez, 37, lost control.
Rodriguez, who is from Honduras, was in the United States illegally and Homeland Security officials are assisting the state in its investigation, Matey said.
The Acadian Ambulance Service said on Twitter it had taken 38 people to hospitals and that a second ambulance company had transported three to hospitals.
Matey said at the news conference that most of the injuries to the 24 people on the bus were minor to moderate.
The bus, filled with volunteers to help residents recover from massive flooding in Louisiana earlier this month, was travelling westbound on Interstate 10 when it crashed into the fire truck and another vehicle, the television station and other media reported.
As many as 60,600 homes were reported damaged or destroyed in flooding that ravaged 20 parishes, or counties, in the southern part of Louisiana. About 3,000 residents were still living in shelters as of Aug. 22, officials said last week.
ASUNCION (Reuters) - An ambush in the north of Paraguay killed eight soldiers,  authorities said on Saturday, adding that the attack bore the hallmarks of the guerrilla group known as the Paraguayan People's Army.
The Paraguayan People's Army, known locally by its Spanish initials EPP, is a small leftist group formed just over a decade ago.
It is loosely modelled on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, which has said in recent days that it will lay down its arms after half a century of war.
The security forces who officials said were attacked on Saturday belong to a unit created by the government in 2013 to combat the EPP.
"At about 9am this morning a routine patrol was the object of an attack on a country road in the Arroyito district ... the attackers detonated explosives as the truck passed and then carried out a cowardly armed attack on the wounded soldiers," said the Interior Ministry in a statement.
The government said it is investigating the attack, which took place in a rural part of Concepcion, about 450 kilometres (280 miles) north of capital Asuncion, in an area where the EPP is known to operate.
The shadowy EPP sometimes leave pamphlets at the site of attacks. Authorities have not said if anything like that has been found.
Interior Minister Francisco de Vargas told a local radio station that the manner of the attack - explosive artefacts by a road - was typical of the EPP. "It is very probable that is what happened," he said.
The EPP has been blamed by authorities for a string of kidnappings, murders and attacks in the remote north of Paraguay, an area of cattle ranches, poor rural labourers, and illegal marijuana plantations.
In 2013 it carried out an attack in which five people died, its bloodiest to date.
The group is believed to hold three people captive at present: a police agent who has been held for over two years, and two Mennonites, members of a religious sect of European background who have significant dairy farming communities in Paraguay.
AMATRICE, Italy (Reuters) - Rescuers believe they have found more bodies buried deep in the rubble of the ruined town of Amatrice, five days after a devastating earthquake struck central Italy, killing at least 290 people.
Residents of the hill town estimated that up to 10 people were still missing and emergency services said they had located three corpses in Amatrice's Hotel Roma, which, like much of the historic centre, was wrecked by Wednesday's quake.
Deputy Mayor Gianluca Carloni said his uncle's body had still not been recovered from the hotel, which was particularly busy at this time of year because of a food festival.
"It is absolutely vital to finish as soon as possible this initial (search) phase to make sure that there are no more bodies under the rubble," he said.
Museums across Italy donated proceeds from their ticket sales on Sunday to help the rebuilding effort, while top flight soccer teams held a minute's silence before their weekend matches out of respect for the victims.
Pope Francis led prayers for the dead in his weekly address in St Peter's Square in Rome, saying he wanted to go to the earthquake zone to bring comfort to the survivors.
"Dear brothers and sisters, as soon as it is possible, I hope to come and visit you," he said.
Priests in the quake zone held their regular Sunday services in large tents. Amatrice's municipal website said the town had 100 churches, but every one was damaged by the disaster and many would have to be demolished.
With aftershocks continuing to rattle the region, including a magnitude 4.4 quake centred on the nearby city of Ascoli Piceno, residents were still struggling to absorb the disaster.
"It took me 20 years to get my house, and then, in just 10 seconds, it was gone, like so many others," said Ascenzio Attenni, who lived in the hamlet of Sant'Angelo outside Amatrice, where eight people died.
"We have to thank God that we are alive," he said, before breaking down in tears.
Rescue operations in most of the area were halted two days ago, but teams were still combing Amatrice, which is 105 km (65 miles) east of Rome. The fire service said it was trying to remove some of the fallen masonry at the Hotel Roma and create a safe path to retrieve the three bodies as soon as possible.
The Civil Protection Department lowered the official death toll on Sunday to 290 from a previously given 291. A number of foreigners were among the dead, including 11 Romanians, the foreign ministry in Bucharest said.
Many Romanians work in Italy and Bucharest said 14 of its nationals were still unaccounted for.
Italy has promised to rebuild the shattered communities and has said it will learn from the mistakes following a similar earthquake in the nearby city of L'Aquila in 2009, where much of the centre is still out of bounds.
The rebuilding effort was stalled following allegations that organised crime groups had muscled in to obtain lucrative contracts. Italy's anti-mafia chief Franco Roberti said the experience of L'Aquila would serve well this time around, but warned that the government could not lower its guard.
"The risks are there and it is pointless to pretend otherwise," he told la Repubblica newspaper. "Post-quake reconstruction is always very appetising for criminal gangs and their business partners."
LIBREVILLE (Reuters) - Supporters of Gabon's President Ali Bongo and his chief rival  both said on Sunday they were set to win a presidential election that poses the most serious challenge yet to the Bongo family's half-century rule in the tiny, oil-rich nation.
Backers of the president and his main challenger, Jean Ping, also traded accusations of fraud allegedly committed during Saturday's vote, raising the prospect of increased tension in the wake of an uncharacteristically bitter campaign.
At a large gathering of supporters at his campaign headquarters in the capital, Ping, 73, distributed figures showing him handily beating Bongo.
"The general trends indicate we're the winner of this important presidential election," Ping told backers and reporters. "Despite numerous irregularities ... you have managed to thwart this regime's congenital traps of fraud."
Interior Minister Pacôme Moubelet-Boubeya, who had already warned candidates that giving results before the official declaration was against the law, condemned Ping's announcement.
"The candidate Jean Ping has just carried out an attempt to manipulate the democratic process," he said in a statement distributed late on Sunday.
Official results are expected on Tuesday.
Bongo, 57, who first won election after his father Omar died in 2009 after 42 years in office, has benefited from being the incumbent in a country with a patronage system lubricated by oil largesse.
Gabon's one-round election means the winner simply requires more votes than any other candidate. In 2009, Bongo won with 41.73 percent of the vote.
Addressing Ping's declaration, Bongo warned his rival against pre-empting the result by claiming victory before an official announcement.
"You must not sell the skin of the bear before you've killed him," he said, speaking at one of his campaign offices in Libreville. "In any case, I am confident."
Minutes earlier, his spokesman Alain Claude Bilie By Nzé told journalists that Bongo was leading in five of Gabon's nine provinces.
In comments broadcast overnight on state-owned television, the spokesman went even further, stating that Bongo was poised to win another term in office.
"Even if no figure can or should be given at this stage, we are, in light of information we are receiving, able to say that our candidate ... will claim victory," he said.
Bilie By Nzé also said "massive fraud" had been observed during the vote, particularly in polling stations located in opposition strongholds.
The interior ministry on Sunday acknowledged fraud had been noted in some polling stations. But it offered little detail and said that the process remained "satisfactory and positive".
An oil producer with a population of less than two million, Gabon is one of Africa's richest countries.
However, declining oil output and falling prices have resulted in budget cuts and provided fodder for opposition claims that the average person has struggled under Bongo's leadership. His re-election bid was also hobbled by a series of high-profile defections from the ruling party.
Ping, one of 10 candidates contesting the poll, is a former foreign minister and African Union Commission chairman, who was a close ally of Omar Bongo.
Some opposition supporters have called into question Bongo's Gabonese nationality, claiming he was adopted from eastern Nigeria as a baby, a charge that risks fuelling xenophobic sentiment and which the president denies.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan could be charged with graft as soon as this week, the City Press newspaper reported on Sunday, citing senior sources in the police, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the tax service.
The AFP news agency quoted an NPA spokesperson as saying "there is no decision whatsoever to prosecute anyone", but that police had given prosecutors a docket on Friday. Neither Gordhan nor the prosecuting service could be reached by Reuters.
Last week, police summoned Gordhan in connection with an investigation into a "rogue spy unit" set up in the revenue service when he headed the organisation, rattling South African markets and sending the rand down 5 percent.
The investigation first came to light in February and political pundits have said Gordhan is being undermined by a faction in the government and ruling African National Congress (ANC) allied to President Jacob Zuma.
According to Sunday's report in City Press, 30 witnesses have been called to testify against Gordhan and three former officials from the South African Revenue Service (SARS).
The newspaper said Gordhan would be charged with corruption for allegedly granting early retirement to Ivan Pillay, a former commissioner of the South African Revenue Service who is also under investigation. It said charges could be brought as soon as this week.
Zuma said on Thursday he backed Gordhan but was powerless to stop a police investigation into him, signalling a prolonged tussle that could add to market volatility.
South Africa's credit rating is set to be cut to junk status this year, according to a Reuters poll this week, with economists surveyed citing the heightened political risk around the Gordhan saga.
Gordhan commands huge respect in the markets and his departure would be a serious blow to Africa's most industrialised country as it teeters on the brink of recession.
The Sunday Times said Gordhan had told a meeting of Treasury staff on Friday that he and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas could be removed in a cabinet shuffle. Treasury officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
PARIS (Reuters) - A law banning the full-body "burkini" swimsuit in France would  stoke tensions between communities and would be both unconstitutional and ineffective, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said in an interview published on Sunday.
France's highest administrative court, the Council of State, ruled on Friday against a decision to ban the burkini by the mayor of the resort town of Villeneuve-Loubet.
The ruling may set a precedent for the dozens of French towns that have also ordered burkini bans.
The issue has become politically charged at the start of party primaries ahead of next year's presidential election in France, with several leaders on the right and far-right calling for a law prohibiting the full-body swimming costume worn by some Muslim women.
Former President Nicolas Sarkozy who is staging a political comeback and is seeking the ticket of the conservative Les Republicains in primaries set for November, has called for a law allowing mayors to ban the burkini.
But Cazeneuve told La Croix newspaper that such a law was unlikely under the current socialist government.
"The government ... refuses to legislate on this because a law would be unconstitutional, ineffective and likely to create antagonism and irreparable tensions," he said.
"We do not need a new law. Current laws clearly lay out France's secularism."
The debate was fuelled by footage of police trying to enforce the ban on a woman on a beach in Nice.
The controversy, coupled with several Islamist militant attacks in France since January 2015, has filtered into early campaigning for the presidential election in April 2017, making French cultural identity and security highly-charged issues in the political debates.
"France needs healing and people coming together, not divisive outbursts by those contesting in primaries," Cazeneuve said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said in an interview on Saturday that Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives had "underestimated" the challenge of integrating record numbers of migrants.
Gabriel leads the Social Democrats (SPD) -- the junior coalition partner in Merkel's government -- and his comments come as campaigning kicks off for a federal election next year and regional elections in Berlin and the eastern state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
Hundreds of thousands of migrants arrived in Germany from the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere last year. There is widespread concern about how to integrate them into German society and the labor market, and support for the anti-immigrant party Alternative for Germany (AfD) has grown.
"I, we always said that it's inconceivable for Germany to take in a million people every year," Gabriel said in an interview with broadcaster ZDF.
"There is an upper limit to a country's integration ability," he added at a news conference on Sunday.
He said Germany had 300,000 new school children due to the migrant influx and added that the country could not manage to integrate so many into the school system every year because there would not be enough teachers.
Gabriel also criticized Merkel's catchphrase "Wir schaffen das" ("We can do this"), which she adopted during last year's migrant crisis.
The chancellor used the phrase at a news conference in late July after a spate of attacks on civilians in Germany, including two claimed by Islamic State, that put her open-door migrant policy in the spotlight and dented her popularity.
Merkel rejected Gabriel's criticism in an interview with broadcaster ARD and said the federal government had worked hard with state and municipal authorities to solve problems, changed laws and provided funding.
She suggested she was open to changes in the EU's planned quota system, which aims to transfer of about 160,000 asylum seekers from Greece and Italy to other EU states, but said it was important to find a solution that shared responsibility.
It would not be acceptable, Merkel said, for governments to say: "We don't generally want to have Muslims in our country."
Instead of taking in refugees en masse, some eastern European countries want to provide other forms of help -- such as border guards for other EU countries -- and have suggested that the European Commission could offset those contributions against its proposed distribution quota.
LAHORE, Pakistan (Reuters) - Pakistani police said on Sunday that three Islamists suspected of being behind an attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in the city of Lahore in 2009 had been killed during a shootout.
The three men, along with a fourth alleged militant who was also killed, were in police custody travelling on the edge of Lahore late on Saturday when a group of seven or eight gunmen attacked their convoy, the police said.
Police said they returned fire but the four men in their custody were killed in the gunfight. Authorities are hunting for the attackers who fled the scene, the Punjab counter-terrorism department said in a statement.
The Sri Lankan cricket team was travelling by bus when at least 10 gunmen fired at them in March 2009 with rifles, grenades and rockets, wounding six players and a British coach and killing eight Pakistanis.
Most international cricket tours to Pakistan were subsequently cancelled and the country was forced to play all its "home" games in the United Arab Emirates.
Pakistan is fighting a number of Islamist militant groups who have staged scores of attacks against the state, civilians and religious minorities over the last decade, although Lahore remains relatively safer than other parts of the country.
The government in Islamabad says it is clamping down on militants and the army has carried out large military operations along the volatile border with Afghanistan to flush out militants, but attacks still occur.
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - South Sudan opposition leader, Riek Machar, has left hospital but will remain in Khartoum for some time, Sabt Makkouk, an aide accompanying Machar, said on Friday.
Sudan's Information Minister announced on August 23 that Machar, who left South Sudan to escape government forces, was in Khartoum for medical treatment.
"Riek Machar left hospital this morning in stable health and has recovered ... He will stay in Khartoum for some time," Makkouk told Reuters.
President Salva Kiir sacked Machar from his post as vice president after renewed fighting in South Sudan's capital Juba last month between forces loyal to the long-time rivals. The clashes forced tens of thousands of people to flee.
Machar withdrew to the bush during the fighting in Juba and was picked up this month by U.N. peace keepers in Democratic Republic of Congo with a leg injury. His spokesman earlier said Machar had left South Sudan to evade Kiir's forces and had said his injury was not serious enough to require medical attention.
Makkouk said that Machar would speak at a press conference on Friday or Saturday in Khartoum to explain the latest developments in South Sudan. He was also due to meet Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The head of an alternative cancer treatment center in Germany is under investigation after three patients died there in suspicious circumstances, German prosecutors said on Friday.
The non-medical practitioner, identified as Klaus R., is suspected of manslaughter in three cases and negligent injury in the case of two more patients who remain in serious condition, said Axel Stahl, senior prosecutor in the Krefeld prosecutor's office.
Investigators are looking into allegations that the suspect treated patients with 3BP, an experimental drug that has not been clinically tested or approved for use as a cancer treatment. It is, however, used in alternative medicine, and the suspect was authorized to administer the drug on that basis. He has denied any wrongdoing.
"These are people who received treatment shortly before July 19 ... and immediately following this treatment had a dramatic decline in health", Stahl said.
The investigation will mainly focus on whether a causal link existed between the deaths of the patients and their treatment, Stahl said. It will probably be several weeks until prosecutors had the first results, he said.
Investigators would look into whether the chemical composition of the drug was incorrect and whether the dosage could have been wrong, he said.
The alternative treatment center, located in the West German city of Brueggen near the Dutch border, was an outpatient practice. "The patients came mostly from Belgium and the Netherlands," Stahl said.
LA PAZ (Reuters) - Bolivian miners lifted the roadblock where violent protests had taken place this week, a day after a government deputy minister was beaten to death, with President Evo Morales calling Friday a day of "deep pain" for the country.
Deputy Interior Minister Rodolfo Illanes, 56, was killed on Thursday after being taken hostage by workers who had blocked a major highway in Panduro, around 160 km (100 miles) from capital city La Paz. Officials said he died of blows to the head.
The workers were demanding more mining concessions with less stringent environmental rules.
"Our natural resources belong to the people, which is why I call brother Illanes a hero in the defense of our natural resources," Morales told local media, calling for a three-day period of mourning.
Illanes had traveled to Panduro to negotiate with the miners. His body was found in the early morning by the side of the highway that connects La Paz with the city of Oruro, wrapped in a blanket, said Edwin Blanco, the prosecutor in charge of the investigation.
"The cause of death was basically bleeding in the brain. Ribs were also broken," Blanco told reporters.
Morales said the protests and Illanes' death looked to be part of a "political conspiracy rather than a legitimate social claim" made by the miners.
Morales, an ex-coca grower, nationalized Bolivia's resources sector after taking power in 2006, initially winning plaudits for plowing the profits into welfare programs.
But his government has been dogged by accusations of cronyism and authoritarianism in recent years. Some labor unions have soured on him as falling commodity prices have crimped spending.
The Panduro protest turned violent this week after a highway was blockaded. Two workers were killed on Wednesday after police fired shots. The government said 17 police officers had been wounded.
Bolivia's Panduro area has zinc, gold and silver mines. Most of the country's miners, including those involved in the protests, work in cooperatives. Unlike neighboring Peru and Chile, there are few foreign-owned mining companies.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton said on Friday the Clinton Foundation was seeking other organizations to  partner with as it looks to wind down some of its charitable work, but defended her work as secretary of state as independent from her family's foundation.
Clinton has come under fire in recent days amid questions over the charity and its donors given her role heading the State Department from 2009 to early 2013. Critics have accused her of running a "pay-for-play" operation, a charge she and the foundation have denied. Even some supporters have said Clinton faces a perception problem over the issue.
"I know the foundation is looking for partners, but that's going to take some time to carry out," Clinton said in an interview on MSNBC. "Winding down some of these programs takes time. You don't just turn on and off ... a switch. Even trying to negotiate with partner groups takes a lot of serious effort."
"My work as secretary of state was not influenced by any outside forces. I made policy decisions based on what I thought was right to keep Americans safe and to protect our interests abroad. I believe my aides also acted appropriately," she said.
Several media editorial boards this week noted the foundation's philanthropic efforts in areas such as global health and HIV/AIDS, but urged the foundation - formally called the Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation - to transfer the work to other large U.S. charities.
Former President Bill Clinton, who helped establish the global charity after serving two terms in the White House, would resign from the board if his wife wins the Nov. 8  election, the foundation announced last week. It also said it would stop accepting some foreign and corporate donations.
Hillary Clinton's Republican rival for the White House, Donald Trump, and other Republicans have called for a special prosecutor to probe the charity for possible corruption, an accusation her campaign has called a groundless political smear.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's population registered its biggest increase in more than 20 years in 2015, data showed on Friday, as record numbers of migrants entered the country.
More than a million people fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East, Africa and beyond flocked to Europe's most populous nation last year, drawn by Germany's strong economy, relatively liberal asylum laws and generous system of benefits.
Net migration reached a record high of 1,139,000, more than doubling from 2014, the Federal Statistics Office said.
A domestic debate about the benefits and drawbacks of migration has been raised a notch by a recent spate of violent attacks on civilians, some of which were claimed by Islamist militants.
Federal elections are due next year and some German politicians have argued the influx will help ease a shortage of skilled labour as the population ages and birth rates fall.
Others are worried such a large number of migrants, many of whom lack the language skills and training Germany needs, is placing a heavy burden on the social safety net.
With 188,000 more people having died in Germany in 2015 than were born, overall the population rose by 978,000 to 82.2 million, its strongest rise since 1992.
The Interior Ministry has said 1.1 million migrants arrived in Germany last year with the aim of seeking asylum, with just under 480,000 applying. Asylum seekers have faced delays in making their applications.
The statistics office said the figures it used to calculate net migration were based on numbers registering at registration offices. Asylum seekers are initially housed in reception centres and generally only register later.
All of Germany's 16 regions saw their populations increase. Asylum seekers are spread around the country based on each state's population and tax revenues.
At the end of 2015 there were 8.7 million foreign nationals living in Germany, an increase of 14.7 percent compared with the previous year, with foreigners making up 10.5 percent of the population.
The IAB German labour office research institute estimated on Friday that the number of people who come to Germany in search of protection would fall to around 300,000 to 400,000 this year.
It said that estimate was dependent on the continued existence of the European Union's migrant deal with Turkey, which aims to stem the flow of illegal migrants to Europe, and the Balkan route remaining closed.
The IAB said the number of new arrivals had stabilised at about 16,000 refugees per month since April. That compares with more than 200,000 in November.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkey's Tayyip Erdogan discussed the situation in Syria in a telephone conversation on Friday, stressing the importance of a joint fight against terrorism, the Kremlin said.
The two leaders also discussed further development of political and trade and economic ties, agreeing to continue personal dialogue on a bilateral and international affairs, the Kremlin said.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and Russia's Vladimir Putin agreed in a phone call on Friday to accelerate efforts to deliver aid to Syria's Aleppo, Erdogan's office said in a statement.
Erdogan informed Putin about Turkey's incursion into Syria that started early on Wednesday, and the two stressed the importance of cooperation for regional security against all "terrorist organisations", including Islamic State, according to the statement.
Erdogan and Putin agreed to hold a bilateral meeting during the G20 Summit in China during the first week of September. Russia and Turkey have been repairing relations, which were strained after Turkey downed a Russian jet near the Syrian border last year.
KINSHASA (Reuters) - Democratic Republic of Congo will free five pro-democracy activists in the next few days, the justice minister said on Friday, to try to appease the opposition and ease negotiations over an election timetable after a delayed presidential vote.
Opponents accuse President Joseph Kabila of deliberately delaying the vote in order to cling to power beyond the end of his mandate in December, a charge his supporters deny.
Opposition leaders could not be reached for comment but Friday's news looked unlikely to appease the main opposition alliance, which dismissed a similar promise to release prisoners last week as insufficient and boycotted the talks.
Only four of the 24 prisoners named last week turned out to still be in jail, and several prominent political figures were not on the list of names.
Thambwe said on Friday that he expected those four to be released at the weekend.
Talks between the government, its political opponents and civil society representatives started this week after authorities said last weekend that a vote set for November could not be held before July as they enrol millions of new voters.
Authorities have arrested dozens of people in the last year, who the opposition deem political prisoners, and about 40 people were killed in January 2015 in protests over a possible election delay, drawing criticism from the United Nations.
Justice Minister Alexis Thambwe Mwamba told reporters in the capital Kinshasa that five activists - four from the youth group Lucha based in the eastern city of Goma and one from Kinshasa-based pro-democracy group Filimbi - would soon be released.
"The formalities will be taken care of starting today, and they should be able to leave Makala prison in the next two or three days," he said.
Kabila took power when his father was assassinated in 2001, then won disputed elections in 2006 and 2011. Congo has not experienced a peaceful transition of power since independence from Belgium in 1960.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's High Court on Friday allowed opposition parties to march in the capital against electoral processes they say favour President Robert Mugabe, hours after police fired teargas at gathering protesters, an opposition official said.
Movement for Democratic Change vice president Nelson Chamisa said the court ruled that the demonstration should proceed from 12 noon to 4 p.m. and that police should not disturb the march.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - An explosion at a sports centre in the southern Belgian town of Chimay early on Friday killed one person and wounded four others, two of them seriously, Belgium's Crisis Centre said.
"It is probably a gas explosion," an official at the agency told Reuters, adding that there was no indication of it being a militant attack.
Local media reported the blast occurred just after midnight (2200 GMT) at a sports centre known as "Le Chalon" in Chimay, close to the French border, when five people were still inside the building. Part of the building was destroyed.
Belgium and France, along with the rest of Europe, have been on high alert after Islamic State attacks in Paris and Brussels over the past year.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Kuwaiti authorities have detained a state employee suspected of belonging to the Islamic State-linked "Cyber Caliphate Army", and hacking official websites of foreign countries to spread militant ideology, local media reported on Friday.
The Arabic-language al-Watan and al-Qabas reported that the 26-year-old man identified as Othman Zebn Nayef was arrested after months of surveillance.
Al-Qabas quoted the interior ministry's public information department as saying in a statement that Nayef confessed to being "a main member of the so-called Caliphate Cyber Army", believed to be the electronic arm of Islamic State.
The English-language Arab Times, which carried a similar report, did not identify the department where he had worked, but said he was caught using his office computer to "hack official social media sites of some 'friendly and sister' countries to spread the extremist thoughts of the so-called Islamic State".
The statement said Nayef's arrest had helped capture two suspects in Iraq and one in Jordan on Thursday, but provided no further details.
Kuwait has waged a crackdown on Islamist militants since a suicide bomber killed 27 people in an attack on a Shi'ite Muslim mosque in Kuwait city in June 2015. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack.
In a separate report, al-Qabas said that around 150 Kuwaiti nationals and residents who hold no citizenship, known as Bidoon, were in Syria fighting within armed groups trying to topple President Bashar al-Assad, and that up to 11  have died in the fighting.
The newspaper quoted unnamed sources as saying that some of those fighters have been trying to find ways to return home as they face "extortion" and robbery from fellow militants.
The Kuwaiti government, an ally of the United States, has stepped up its monitoring of individuals and charities suspected of collecting donations for militants linked to al Qaeda in Syria and in Iraq.
TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisia's new government won a confidence vote late on Friday after the Prime Minister Youssef Chahed warned in Parliament an austerity programme will be inevitable with thousands of public sector job cuts and new taxes if Tunisia does not overcome its economic difficulties.
The Unity government was backed by 167 of the parliament's 217 members.
The North African state is struggling with lower tourism revenues after two Islamist militant attacks on foreign tourists last year hit what is one of its key industries. Strikes and protests for jobs have also hurt the country's phosphate production.
Chahed has promised his new government will take tough decisions to help the economy grow and create jobs as the country comes under pressure from international lenders to push through reforms and trim public spending.
Lawmakers were meeting on Friday to vote whether to approve Chahed's new government - a broad coalition of secular, Islamist and leftist parties, independents and trade union allies which he believes can deliver on economic reforms.
"If the situation continues like this then in 2017 we will need a policy of austerity, and dismiss thousands of public sector employees and impose new taxes," Chahed told lawmakers before the vote.
Chahed, an ally of President Beji Caid Essebsi, promised a tough line on the economy. But critics question whether he has the political clout to overcome the labour union opposition, strikes and party infighting that have dogged past governments.
He said economic growth this year would not surpass 1.5 percent, below the official target of 2.5 percent for the year.
Chahed said state production of phosphate - a major revenue earner - had declined in the past five years by 60 percent, while public wage payouts had more than doubled from 6.7 billion dinars (2.3 billion pounds) in 2010 to 13.4 billion dinars this year.
He also expected the budget deficit to widen by 2.9 billion dinars to 6.5 billion dinars by year-end.
Chahed, at 41 the youngest prime minister Tunisia has ever had, said his government would be tough on illegal strikes.
"We will not allow interruption of production at any factory and we will be firm and severe in dealing with illegal strikes and sit-ins."
He vowed to press ahead with economic reforms sought by international lenders such as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
At 13.5 percent of GDP, Tunisia's public sector wage bill is proportionately one of the highest in the world. But labour unions and other groups have resisted attempts to reform pensions and introduce more taxes.
An estimated $3 billion in debt service payments is due next year and the state is likely to struggle just to come up with the roughly $450 million it needs every month to pay employees.
($1 = 2.1900 Tunisian dinars)
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico on Friday renewed his call for the European Union to end sanctions against Russia after meeting President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, saying they had failed to influence the settlement of any key issues.
He made his comments on Facebook as Slovakia, which holds the rotating EU presidency, prepared to host a meeting of the bloc's foreign ministers next week, with some central European countries expressing unease over the continuing sanctions on Russia.
The EU bloc imposed energy, financial and defence sanctions on Moscow after it annexed Ukraine's Crimea in March 2014 and agreed in June to extend them until the end of January. Separate sanctions, aimed at individuals, expire next month and may be extended.
Fico said: "Personally, I think it is time to view the sanctions rationally and to say that they harm both the EU and Russia."
"They have brought absolutely nothing to (solving) the sensitive questions which they were supposed to influence. We agreed with Vladimir Putin that our common pursuit is to revive our mutual trade again," Fico said in the comment which appeared on his Facebook page along with a photo of his Thursday meeting with Putin.
Slovakia imports almost all its gas and oil from Russia, as well as nuclear fuel to generate two power plants. It exports cars to Russia, though these are just a fraction of its exports to the EU.
Fico, who was re-elected for a third time as prime minister in March, has, like some other central European powers,  consistently questioned the use of sanctions on Russia.
Hungary has taken a similar line. Czech President Milos Zeman, a backer of Russia, has repeatedly called for ending  sanctions and the head of the upper house of the Czech parliament pleaded with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to end them when she visited Prague on Thursday.
Merkel said last week there was not reason to lift sanctions as Russia has not fulfilled its commitments under the Minsk agreements aimed at ending the conflict in eastern Ukraine where Kiev and the West say Russia is arming and supporting separatist rebels.
ABUJA (Reuters) - Traditional leaders in Nigeria's oil-producing Niger Delta have demanded that authorities release youths arrested by the army before they will mediate in talks with militants who have been blowing up pipelines, a government official said.
On Thursday, Oil Minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu met traditional leaders from the southern region where a wave of pipeline attacks has cut the country's oil output by 700,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 1.56 million bpd.
The government had asked the leaders to make contact with the militants, who are fractured in many small groups with no unified command or demands.
The rulers, or traditional kings, asked for the release of a group of school children arrested in May and other prisoners caught in a military sweep against militants in the swamplands, the official said.
They also want the government to appoint one team to engage with all militant groups, he said.
Kachikwu asked the leaders to contact the different militant groups. "So I do urge you all to continue to reach out to all the splinter groups," he said, according to the officials.
"The government is worried that over $40 billion invested in the area is yet to yield the desired result," he said, referring to oil investments in the Niger Delta.
Militants say they want a greater share of Nigeria's oil wealth to go to the impoverished region. Crude sales make up about 70 percent of national income and the vast majority of that oil comes from the swampland.
One group called Niger Delta Avengers, which has claimed several major attacks, said in a statement attributed to them on Sunday they had agreed to a ceasefire to start a dialogue. Officials have refused to confirm this.
ANKARA/KARKAMIS, Turkey (Reuters) - A suicide truck bombing at a police headquarters in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast killed at least 11 and wounded dozens on Friday, two days after Turkey launched an incursion against Islamic State and Kurdish militia fighters in Syria.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said there was no doubt that the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has waged a three-decade insurgency for Kurdish autonomy, was responsible for the attack in Sirnak province, which borders Syria and Iraq.
The provincial governor's office said 11 police officers were killed and 78 people, three of them civilians, wounded.  There was no immediate claim of responsibility.
The bombing in the town of Cizre was the latest in a series of attacks since a ceasefire with the PKK collapsed more than a year ago, and comes as Turkey tries to recover from a failed July 15 military coup.
More than 1,700 military personnel have been removed for their alleged role in the putsch, including some 40 percent of admirals and generals, raising concern about the NATO member's ability to protect itself as it battles Islamic State in Syria and Kurdish militants at home.
At a news conference in Istanbul, Yildirim said Turkey had opened a war on all terrorist groups. His deputy, Numan Kurtulmus, said on Twitter that Islamic State, the PKK and the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia were all attacking Turkey to take advantage of last month's coup attempt.
"Turkey is in an intense fight against terrorist organizations ... The PKK/YPG and Islamic State seized the July 15 coup attempt as an opportunity," Kurtulmus wrote.
Large plumes of smoke billowed from the blast site in Cizre, footage on CNN Turk showed. The broadcaster said a dozen ambulances and two helicopters had been sent to the scene.
Photographs broadcast by private channel NTV showed a large three-storey building reduced to its concrete shell, with no walls or windows, and surrounded by grey rubble.
Turkish special forces, tanks and warplanes launched their first major incursion into Syria on Wednesday in support of Syrian rebels, in an operation President Tayyip Erdogan has said is aimed both at driving Islamic State away from the border area and preventing territorial gains by the YPG.
Turkey views the YPG as an extension of the PKK, which is listed as a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and the European Union. More than 40,000 people, mostly Kurds, have died since the rebels took up arms in Turkey in 1984.
Turkish troops fired on U.S.-backed YPG fighters in northern Syria on Thursday - a confrontation that highlights the cross-cutting of interests of two pivotal NATO allies.
Also on Thursday, Interior Minister Efkan Ala accused the PKK of attacking a convoy carrying the country's main opposition party leader, Kemal Kilicdaroglu.
The government has blamed the PKK for a series of attacks this month in the southeast. The group has claimed responsibility for at least one attack on a police station.
Last week Erdogan accused followers of a U.S.-based Islamic cleric he blames for the July 15 coup attempt of being complicit in attacks by Kurdish militants.
The cleric, Fethullah Gulen, has denied any involvement in and denounced the coup plot.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey's resolve to battle militants would only increase after Friday's attack on a police headquarters in the southeast of the country that he blamed on the outlawed militant group Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
Turkey was battling militants "at home and abroad", the president said in a statement, two days after Turkey launched an incursion against Islamic State and Kurdish militia fighters in Syria.
PARIS (Reuters) - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls defended a ban on burkinis in more than a dozen coastal towns on Thursday, saying France was locked in a "battle of cultures" and that the full-body swimsuit symbolized the enslavement of women.
Photographs of armed police ordering a Muslim woman on a beach in the Mediterranean city of Nice to partially disrobe went viral on social media this week, upsetting many French Muslims and causing global consternation.
In a sign of rifts opening in the socialist government before a presidential election in 2017, France's Moroccan-born education minister said the debate was fanning racist rhetoric and being used for political gain. The health minister said France's secular values did not mean a rejection of religion.
"We have to wage a determined fight against radical Islam, against these religious symbols which are filtering into public spaces," Valls said in an interview on BFM-TV.
Reiterating his stance on the issue, he said: "For me the burkini is a symbol of the enslavement of women."
France's Conseil d'Etat, its highest administrative court, on Thursday began hearing a request by a human rights group for the burkini ban in the Mediterranean town of Villeneuve-Loubet to be overturned.
The debate over the burkini ban encapsulates the difficulties secular France faces as it grapples with a response to homegrown jihadists and foreign militants, following Islamist attacks on Nice and a Normandy church in July, and major deadly attacks in Paris last year. Security and immigration are now central issues in the presidential election campaign.
Former head of state Nicolas Sarkozy, who joined the presidential race on Monday, told the Figaro magazine that France under President Francois Hollande had become too timid.
"The Burkini is a political act, a militant act, a provocation. Women who wear it are testing the Republic," Sarkozy told the magazine in comments to be published on Friday.
In a demonstration of how the Burkini controversy has reverberated abroad, British author J. K. Rowling tweeted: "So Sarkozy calls the Burkini a 'provocation'. Whether women cover or uncover their bodies, seems we're always 'asking for it.'"
France is not the only country where restrictions on face and head coverings are back in the spotlight, and debate on assimilation is raging in Western Europe after a wave of militant strikes and an immigration crisis that has forced a rethink of Europe's internal open border policy.
In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives want a partial ban on the niqab, or face veil, while in Austria right-wing politicians have called for a ban on the burqa, which covers the face and body. In Switzerland there are calls for a popular vote on a ban on the burqa.
On a visit to Paris on Thursday, London's Muslim mayor, Sadiq Khan, condemned the ban, saying no one should tell women what to wear.
"I don't think it's right," Khan told the Evening Standard newspaper. "One of the joys of London is that we don't simply tolerate difference, we respect it, we embrace it."
The burkini has been banned by at least 15 French towns from Corsica to the northern coast but most restrictions have been enforced in the southeast, an area where the far-right is strong and which is a gateway and home for many immigrants.
It has also been a fertile zone for Islamist militant networks recruiting would-be jihadists to fight in Syria.
The stigma caused by the ban "would only encourage Islamic State's recruiters", said Abdallah Zekri of the National Observatory against Islamaphobia.
At least two ministers came out in open disagreement with the government's stance on the burkini bans on Thursday.
"To pretend that swimming veiled or bathing on a beach dressed is in itself threatening to public order and the values of the Republic is to forget that those (secular) values are meant to allow each person to safeguard their identity," Health Minister Marisol Touraine wrote on her website.
Education Minister Najat Vallaud-Belkacem said she opposed burkinis but dismissed the argument of Prime Minister Valls that the ban was a useful tool in France's fight against militants.
"There is no link between the terror attacks of Daesh and the dress of a woman on the beach," Vallaud-Belkacem told Europe 1 radio, using the Arabic acronym for Islamic State.
While Valls on Thursday rejected the idea the ban might fuel sympathies for militant groups, some government officials are worried.
One senior French government official warned that missteps would only exacerbate tensions heightened since a Tunisian drove his truck through a crowd in Nice last month, killing 86 people, and youths slit the throat of a Catholic priest in Normandy.
"We have several million Muslims in France who are mostly moderates or non-practicing. If they feel that it is the only subject in public debate they won't feel at home and will be tempted to withdraw to their communities," the official said.
The Conseil d'Etat is expected to rule on the Villeneuve-Lobet ban on Friday at 3 p.m. (1300 GMT).
PARIS (Reuters) - France's highest administrative court will rule on Friday whether to uphold or suspend a ban on burkinis that has spread to more than a dozen coastal towns, pending a definitive decision, a judge said.
The court, the Conseil d'Etat, considered on Thursday a human rights group's request to overturn the burkini ban in the Mediterranean town of Villeneuve-Loubet.
But Friday's decision, at 3 p.m. local time (1300 GMT), will not be about the legality of the ban.
Under the French system, the judge will merely decide whether there is ground to act urgently by temporarily suspending the ban until a judgement on its legality can be made.
The court will therefore consider two things: whether the town's decree banning the burkini is a flagrant violation of civil liberties, and if the harm caused is serious enough to immediately suspend it.
A decision on the substance is likely to take at least several more months or longer.
The procedure was developed to avoid situations whereby serious violations of civil liberties by public authorities would remain in place for months or even years because of clogged-up courts.
For more on France's burkini ban, click on:
BEIJING (Reuters) - China will prosecute the former head of its statistics bureau, the country's anti-corruption watchdog said on Friday, accusing him of serious violations of discipline, including extravagance, abuse of power and selling power for sex.
President Xi Jinping has conducted a sweeping campaign to root out deeply ingrained corruption since assuming office more than three years ago, warning that the problem is so bad it could affect the ruling Communist Party's grip on power.
The crackdown has targeted a broad swathe of high-ranking officials, from members of the military to former judges and various ministry chiefs, as well as numerous bosses of state-owned companies.
Wang Baoan, the former chief of China's National Bureau of Statistics, lacked political faith, had frequently stayed at expensive hotels, abused his position to get benefits for relatives, and had accepted gifts, property and bribes, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) said.
Wang, 52, also engaged in "superstitious activities", "exchanged power for sex", and was "morally bankrupt", the agency said in a statement on its website.
The CCDI announced the investigation of Wang in January. The latest move expelling him from the party and handing his case over to legal authorities indicates he will face prosecution.
Reuters was not able to reach Wang for comment and it was unclear if he had been able to retain a lawyer. China's courts are controlled by the party, and convictions in such cases are generally a foregone conclusion.
Wang was deputy finance minister from 2012 until April 2015, when he took up the post of statistics bureau chief.
A Chinese general has also been arrested for violating party discipline, a Hong Kong newspaper cited two unnamed sources as saying, describing him as one of the most senior incumbent military officials to be targeted in Beijing's crackdown on corruption.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When Barack Obama became the first African-American to win the White House in 2008, his victory was a turning point in U.S. race relations that set high expectations for progress to come.
Nearly eight years later, with Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton attacking each other over racial politics, the legacy of Obama's presidency looks decidedly mixed, black leaders said.
To some, the tone of the Republican presidential nominee's campaign, as well as a recent series of racially charged shootings involving police, show that the United States has come no closer to overcoming its history of racial strife.
Having a black president, two attorneys general and a chief of homeland security did not result in basic fairness for victims of racially charged violence, said Cornel West, an academic and former Obama supporter who has become a high-profile critic of the Democratic president.
"How many policemen who have murdered unarmed innocent black civilians have gone to jail with that kind of black power at the top? Zero," West said.
Obama could have acted more directly while in office to help blacks, West added, citing persistently high childhood poverty among African-Americans. “The (economic) recovery has not filtered over into black and working poor communities,” he said.
Others said Obama showed leadership on race while making real achievements on healthcare and the economy that helped Americans of all ethnicities.
Al Sharpton, a civil rights leader with close ties to the White House, described Obama as a "transformative" president held back by the need to serve varying constituencies and compromise with lawmakers who had different priorities.
"He tried to be as balanced and respectful as he could, to the chagrin of many in the black community, who felt that he was leaning over backwards,” Sharpton said.
Unemployment among African-Americans fell by half under Obama, Sharpton noted, while Obama's remarks on race elevated the issue. In 2012 at the White House, Obama referred to Trayvon Martin, a black youth gunned down by a white Hispanic man, as a boy who would have resembled the son he did not have.
“We’ve never had a president do that,” Sharpton said.
Andrew Young, a former Atlanta mayor, congressman, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and adviser to slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., said Obama, as a black leader, had to seek compromise more than previous white presidents.
"It was easier for (Jimmy) Carter or Lyndon Johnson, even Bill Clinton as southern whites to do things specifically for black people," Young said.
Backlash from white working class voters had contributed to Trump's rise, Young said.
"We really haven’t had a complete psychological adjustment to a multi-racial society," he said. "That’s what’s rallying people behind Trump. They're frustrated by the complexities of this day and age. And (Trump), like others, gives a simple answer and blames it on somebody else."
Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, blasted Trump on Thursday as a divisive candidate who was stoking racist groups. Trump criticized Clinton, saying she had let black Americans down and was falsely labelling Republicans as bigoted.
Clinton supporters were more likely to want to address race relations than Trump supporters, a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll of more than 2,800 people found in late March.
Obama has said race relations are not as bad as some suggest. Friends say he never expected his presidency to wipe away centuries of racism and slavery's legacy.
"To expect to erase all of that legacy of injustice or racism and discrimination in eight years is unrealistic," said Valerie Jarrett, a White House adviser and close Obama friend.
"Were there people who probably had a false sense of progress based just on an election? Sure," she said.
The administration wants to advance criminal justice reform legislation before Obama leaves office, aiming for a win on an issue watched closely in the black community. But prospects of passage in Congress during an election year are uncertain.
Obama, who has made clear his disdain for Trump and his frustration with Congress, has said he hoped his own voice on race would help improve things for future generations. "We plant seeds, and somebody else maybe sits under the shade of the tree that we planted," Obama said at a news conference in July.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Islamic State, Kurdish insurgents and Syrian-Kurdish fighters are attacking Turkey to try and take advantage of last month's failed coup, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus said on Friday.
Kurtulmus also said on his official Twitter account that Turkey was determined to protect its borders and security.
His comments came after a car bomb on Friday in the largely Kurdish southeast that killed at least 11 people. The state-run news agency blamed the attack on the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hong Kong has confirmed its first case of Zika in a woman who had travelled to the Caribbean, putting the Asian financial hub on high alert for any spread of the mosquito-borne virus that has wreaked havoc in Latin America, the Caribbean and beyond.
Leung Ting-hung, Controller of the Centre for Health Protection of the Department of Health, told a media conference late on Thursday that relevant measures had been taken to prevent the virus from spreading.
He said the government's priority was controlling the mosquito population in Hong Kong.
"The patient is a 38-year-old woman with good past health. She has developed joint pain and red eyes since August 20," the department of health said in a statement.
The unidentified woman had been in the Caribbean from Aug. 6-20 and returned to Hong Kong on Monday, the department said.
It said it would report the case to the World Health Organization.
In February, a mainland Chinese man who flew into Hong Kong was diagnosed as having the Zika virus, according to  broadcaster RTHK, citing officials as saying there was little chance he could have caused an outbreak during his brief stay.
Zika was detected in Brazil last year and has since spread across the Americas. The virus poses a risk to pregnant women because it can cause severe birth defects. It has been linked to more than 1,800 cases of microcephaly in Brazil.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Inspired by the success of Pokemon Go, a Belgian primary school headmaster has developed an online game for people to search for books instead of cartoon monsters, attracting tens of thousands of players in weeks.
While with Pokemon Go, players use a mobile device's GPS and camera to track virtual creatures around town, Aveline Gregoire's version is played through a Facebook group called "Chasseurs de livres" ("Book hunters").
Players post pictures and hints about where they have hidden a book and others go to hunt them down. Once someone has finished reading a book, they "release" it back into the wild.
"While I was arranging my library, I realised I didn't have enough space for all my books. Having played Pokemon Go with my kids, I had the idea of releasing the books into nature," Gregoire told Reuters.
Though it was only set up a few weeks ago, more than 40,000 people are already signed up to Gregoire's Facebook group.
The hidden tomes range from books for toddlers through to Stephen King horrors, placed around Belgian towns and countryside, often wrapped in clear plastic to keep off the rain.
The Detournay family from the town of Baudour in southern Belgium said the game was now part of their morning walks. They found one book and left four others for people to find.
"My daughter said it's like hunting for easter eggs, only with books," Jessica Detournay said.
When they returned home, they received a Facebook notification informing them that somebody had already found two of their books.
Gregoire is now contemplating taking the game a step further and creating an app for it.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's Defence Ministry is offering Japan to join Moscow's humanitarian mission in the Syrian city of Aleppo, Russian news agencies cited Russian Deputy Defence Minister Anatoly Antonov as saying on Friday.
Antonov made the proposal during his meeting with the Japanese Ambassador to Russia, Toyohisa Kozuki, on Thursday.
KABUL/ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - With its spacious, leafy campus, foreign professors and English-language MBAs, the American University in Kabul offers young Afghan students the kind of Western-style education unimaginable for most of their peers.
The image of an island of liberalism and learning in a country plagued by militant violence has been shattered.
On Wednesday evening, at least two gunmen stormed classrooms after a suspected car bomb was used to get into the walled complex, and killed seven students and a professor.
The death toll could have been far higher, with most students managing to barricade themselves in classrooms or flee to safety, even if it meant breaking bones as they jumped from the second floor of a building.
As security forces patrolled the 5-acre campus on Thursday and university staff visited the wounded in hospital, students weighed up the risks of returning to their education.
"Now my parents say I should stop studying there if it reopens, but I want to continue, because is there another institution like it in the whole country?" said Farooq, an international relations student.
Opened in 2006 and partly funded by U.S. aid, the not-for-profit American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) had grown to accommodate 1,700 students, offering some of the country's most respected degrees craved by young people restless for opportunities.
A slick promotion video on the university's website shows smiling Afghan men and women in traditional Western robes and mortar boards preparing to graduate.
Pupils range from poorer Afghans on scholarships to the sons and daughters of the country's elite.
The university also offers overseas exchange programmes to the United States and Germany, a further incentive to those deciding whether to go back.
"When the university reopens, I will be the first to enter and continue my education. The terrorists can never stop us from learning," said Wahida Faizi.
There has been no claim of responsibility for the raid, which ended after security forces cleared buildings early on Thursday.
Islamist militants have increasingly targeted educational institutions in countries including neighbouring Pakistan, in an effort to frighten the public and damage centres of learning they deem out of place in their vision of an Islamic society.
Taliban insurgents who control swathes of rural Afghanistan and want to topple the Western-backed government of President Ashraf Ghani also frequently attack places where foreigners live or gather, leaving the American University even more vulnerable.
Two teachers from the university, an American and an Australian, were abducted at gunpoint from a road near the campus on Aug. 7. They are still missing.
Among the wounded in Wednesday's attack was a Ugandan professor, according to the Kabul emergency hospital where he was being treated.
Despite security concerns, the university's reputation and unique setting have continued to attract overseas teaching staff, even as the insurgency grew and foreigners were targeted.
Some 60 percent of professors are foreign and the wider academic staff are drawn from 16 countries including Afghanistan, said Shamroz Khan Masjidi, a university spokesman.
Ten academics joined from overseas shortly before the start of classes in mid-August.
Security had been beefed up since 2014, when a wave of bombings in Kabul targeting foreign guesthouses, restaurants and clubs drove many expatriates to leave the city.
At the university, accommodation for foreign faculty members was built on site a few years ago, overseen by a watchtower and armed guards, and expatriates were chaperoned by an Afghan if they left the campus compound.
Still, security would have to be tightened further.
"Extra and upgraded measures have to be taken," said Masjidi, declining to specify what they would be.
Edrees Nawabi, another student at the university, said he feared that foreign teachers would be less willing to come to Kabul after the attack.
But Masjidi sounded a note of defiance.
"The attack will not deter us from our determination to provide education to Afghan students, and AUAF will rise again, even stronger."
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - At least 11 people were killed and 78 wounded in a blast at a police headquarters in Turkish town of Cizre in the largely Kurdish southeast, broadcaster NTV reported.
NTV did not cite a source for the casualty figures.
The state-run Anadolu news agency blamed the attack on the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), a militant group that has waged a three-decade insurgency for Kurdish autonomy and has been involved in almost daily clashes with security forces since a ceasefire collapsed more than a year ago.
VIENNA (Reuters) - A Chinese citizen has been arrested in Hong Kong in connection with a cyber attack that cost Austrian aerospace parts maker FACC 42 million euros ($47.39 million), Austrian police said on Friday.
FACC fired its chief executive and chief financial officer after the attack, which involved hoax emails asking an employee to transfer money for a fake acquisition project - a kind of scam known as a "fake president incident".
FACC's customers include Airbus and Boeing.
A 32-year-old man, who was an authorized signatory of a Hong Kong-based firm that received around 4 million euros from FACC, was arrested on July 1 on suspicion of money laundering, a spokesman for Austria's Federal Office for Crime said.
Such attacks, also known as "business email compromise", involve thieves gaining access to legitimate email accounts inside a company – often those of top executives – to carry out unauthorized transfers of funds.
The technique, which relies on simple trickery or more sophisticated computer intrusions, typically targets businesses working with international suppliers that regularly perform wire transfers.
A spokesman for FACC said the company was working on getting back 10 million euros which had been found and frozen on accounts in different countries around the world. These 10 million euros are not included in the 42 million euro hit the group has already booked.
The spokesman declined to give details on the arrest or the location of the accounts.
In June, the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said identified losses from this scam totaled $3.1 billion and had risen by 1,300 percent in the past 18 months.
Such scams have been reported by 22,143 victims in all 50 U.S. states and in 100 countries around the world.
The FBI said reports indicate that fraudulent transfers have been made to 79 countries with the majority going to Asian banks located in China and Hong Kong.
Another tool for fraud, "ransomware", which has received much media attention over the past year, refers to malicious software that thieves use to blocks access to a computer until a ransom is paid.
Security experts say the two trends are the fastest growing cyber security threats to businesses worldwide.
FBI report: here
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's Health Minister Recep Akdag said on Friday more than 70 people were wounded in a blast at a police headquarters in the town of Cizre, in the predominantly Kurdish Sirnak province in the south east.
But he told reporters in Istanbul that the death toll from the blast remained unclear.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand on Friday announced a joint funding package of A$7.7 million (£4.45 million) to help Pacific Island countries benefit economically from a soon-to-be completed landmark trade and development deal.
Senior representatives from 16 countries met in Christchurch, New Zealand on Friday to negotiate the final terms of the 'Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations Plus' (PACER Plus) agreement which aims to create jobs and raise standards of living in the Pacific region.
The ministers agreed to conclude negotiations by the end of October and seal the agreement by December, NZ minister of trade Todd McClay said in a statement.
Opportunities for economic development in Pacific Island countries are limited because of their small size and the difficulty achieving the economies of scale needed to compete in international markets.
A regional trade and economic integration agreement, expected to facilitate trade in the countries, is likely to help create jobs and wealth in the Pacific.
The Pacific Islands economy grew at 3.4 percent to $8.63 billion in 2015, according to World Bank data from eleven member countries that have a combined population of about 2.3 million.
The negotiations include all members of the Pacific Islands Forum: Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu.
BUDAPEST (Reuters) - Hungary plans to build a second fence on its southern border with Serbia that would enable it to keep out any major new wave of migrants, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Friday.
Orban said the new barrier, to be built alongside the existing one, would strengthen defences to respond if Turkey's policy on migration changed. If that happened, hundreds of thousands could appear at Hungary's border, he told public radio.
"Technical planning is under way to erect a more massive defence system next to the existing line of defence which was built quickly (last year)," Orban said.
Orban said Hungary had to prepare for the eventuality of a deal between Turkey and the European Union to clamp down on migration into Europe via the Balkans unravelling.
"Then if it does not work with nice words, we will have to stop them with force, and we will do so," Orban said.
A razor-wire fence built along Hungary's southern border with Serbia and Croatia has sharply reduced flows.
Last year hundreds of thousands of migrants moved up from the Balkans towards northern Europe. That flow has since been reduced to no more than a steady trickle.
Orban said Hungary would also boost its police presence to 47,000 from 44,000, of which 3,000 will be constantly deployed on the southern border.
He also said it was Europe's interest to work with Turkey and to agree on the issues that serve Europe's security.
Under the existing deal, Turkey has agreed to help stem the tide of illegal migrants into the bloc in exchange for aid and visa-free travel for Turks. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly said that European leaders are not living up to their side of the pact.
Later on Friday, Orban and other prime ministers of Central European EU member states -- the Visegrad countries -- will meet in Warsaw with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Orban said the task for politicians was to change a  decision by the EU to let in migrants and distribute them based on quotas among member states.
"The question is whether Angela Merkel will be willing to change this flawed Brussels decision together with us. Whether she is willing to fight with us for this, or not, Orban said."
Hungary will hold a referendum on Oct. 2 on whether to accept any future EU quota system for resettling migrants.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Japan should play a "constructive" role at the upcoming G20 summit in the Chinese city of Hangzhou because cooperation is in the interests of all parties, China's top diplomat told a visiting Japanese envoy.
Ties between Asia's two largest economies have long been overshadowed by arguments over their painful wartime history and a territorial spat in the East China Sea, among other issues.
Beijing has also accused Tokyo of interfering in the South China Sea, where China and several Southeast Asian nations are embroiled in an argument over ownership.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will attend the summit, which starts next weekend, along with other world leaders including U.S. President Barack Obama.
Chinese state councillor Yang Jiechi, who outranks the foreign minister, told the head of Japan's National Security Council, Shotaro Yachi, that Japan should "play a constructive role" at the G20 summit, state news agency Xinhua reported late on Thursday.
"The improvement of China-Japan ties has been continuously disturbed by various problems, especially the issues related to East China Sea and South China Sea, which is in the interests of neither side," Xinhua paraphrased Yang as saying.
Yachi also met Chinese Premier Li Keqiang.
"The China-Japan relationship is still very fragile although there is a momentum of improvement," Li said, according to Xinhua.
Li said he hoped Japan would adopt a "correct understanding of China and fulfil the commitment to taking China's development as its opportunity".
Xinhua said Yachi read a letter from Abe to Li, in which Abe said Japan expected a successful G20 summit and was willing to enhance cooperation with China in this regard.
AMATRICE, Italy (Reuters) - The death toll from a devastating earthquake in central Italy climbed to 250 on Thursday as rescue teams scoured mounds of rubble for a second day in towns and villages flattened by the natural disaster.
The 6.2 magnitude quake struck a cluster of mountain communities 140 km (85 miles) east of Rome early on Wednesday as people slept, destroying hundreds of homes.
Dozens of emergency workers with sniffer dogs clambered over piles of debris trying to find anyone still trapped, while cranes removed huge slabs of fallen masonry and trucks full of rubble left the area every few minutes.
"People like myself have lost everything, but at the same time the fact that we have survived means we have to move forward one minute at a time," said Alessandra Cioni, 45, who managed to crawl out of her crumpled house after the quake.
"We have been saved, not like half the people in this place who have lost their lives," she said, breaking down in tears.
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi promised to rebuild the shattered houses and said he would renew efforts to bolster Italy's flimsy defenses against earthquakes that regularly batter the country.
"We want those communities to have the chance of a future and not just memories," he told reporters in Rome.
A violent aftershock on Thursday afternoon sent rescuers fleeing as stones fell from the already severely damaged bell tower of the 15th century church of St. Augustine in Amatrice.
The jolt, which struck fear and panic in survivors,  detached the church's facade, leaving it leaning dangerously over the main street where the emergency services were working under blue skies and a hot summer sun.
Almost 200 of the victims died in Amatrice, which is famed for a local pasta dish and was full of holidaymakers ahead of its 50th annual food festival, set for this weekend.
It was unclear how many visitors were in the area on Wednesday, making it hard to track the number of deaths.
"We need to know firstly the exact number of people who are missing before we can say what work is waiting for us," said fire department spokesperson Luca Cari.
"We will obviously move forward without interruption until we are sure there is no one left."
Five Romanians, one Spaniard, one Canadian and a number of other foreigners, some of them care-givers for the elderly, were believed to be among the dead, officials said.
Aerial video taken by drones showed swathes of Amatrice, last year voted one of Italy's most beautiful historic towns, completely flattened.
The nearby towns of Pescara del Tronto, Arquata del Tronto and Accumoli fared little better, leaving thousands of people homeless. The Civil Protection Department has sent up tents for survivors, which risk being their homes for many weeks.
Italy has a poor record of rebuilding after quakes. About 8,300 people who were forced to leave their houses after a deadly earthquake in L'Aquila in 2009 are still living in temporary accommodation.
Renzi declined to predict when the homeless might be rehoused, but said it was his government's top priority. "This is not about setting challenges and making promises. We need the pace of a marathon runner," he said.
About 365 people injured in Wednesday's quake were  hospitalized, the Civil Protection said, noting that about 5,000 people, including police, firefighters, soldiers and volunteers, were involved in post-quake operations.
As night fell on Thursday, rescuers said they had pulled 215 people from the rubble, but as the hours passed only bodies were recovered, including many children who had been spending their summer holidays in the region.
Two young boys and their parents died in the nearby town of Accumoli when the church bell tower crashed through their roof. Magistrates opened an investigation into whether there had been any negligence in recent restoration work.
Another investigation was opened into why Amatrice's school had collapsed, despite the fact it had only opened in 2012 and was meant to have been earthquake-proof.
Most of the buildings in the area were built hundreds of years ago, helping to explain the widespread destruction. Cultural Minister Dario Franceschini said all 293 culturally important sites, many of them churches, had either collapsed or been seriously damaged.
Italy sits on two fault lines, making it one of the most seismically active countries in Europe. Almost 30 people died in earthquakes in northern Italy in 2012 while more than 300 died in a quake in the L'Aquila disaster.
"We are the best in the world when it comes to managing emergencies, but that is not enough," Renzi said.
"We need to change our mentality. We need a new model of development, but also of prevention. ...Everyone says this after these events, but now is the moment for all of Italy, working together, to take a leap forward."
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Brazil's Senate began the trial of suspended President Dilma Rousseff on Thursday after a lengthy impeachment process that has paralysed the politics of Latin America's largest nation and is expected to culminate in her removal from office next week.
Thursday's session, presided over by Supreme Court Chief Justice Ricardo Lewandowski, heard witnesses for and against Rousseff, Brazil's first female president, who is charged with breaking budget laws.
The leftist leader, whose popularity has been hammered by a deep recession and immense corruption scandal since she won reelection in 2014, will appear before the 81 senators on Monday to defend herself. Her opponents are confident they have more than the 54 votes needed to convict her.
Authorities prepared barriers to contain demonstrations outside Brazil's modernistic Congress building, but virtually no Rousseff supporters turned out, underscoring the isolation of the impeached president.
If the final vote, which is expected late Tuesday or in the early hours of Wednesday, goes against Rousseff it would confirm her vice president, Michel Temer, as Brazil's new leader for the rest of her four-year term through 2018, ending 13 years of left-wing Workers Party rule.
Rousseff, a former leftist guerrilla, is charged with spending without congressional approval and manipulating government accounts to mask the extent of Brazil's growing deficit in the run-up to her 2014 re-election.
Her Senate supporters managed to discredit a key witness, a Federal Audit Court prosecutor who led the probe of Rousseff's government, because he had taken part in an anti-Rousseff demonstration.
Lewandowski ruled that Julio Marcelo de Oliveira could be questioned but his testimony would not count as proof, a development that is not expected to affect the outcome of a trial that is more political than judicial.
A survey published by O Globo newspaper on Thursday showed that 52 senators were committed to voting to dismiss Rousseff, with only 19 supporting her and 10 undecided or not polled.
Rousseff has denied any wrongdoing and described efforts to oust her as a "coup." She has refused to resign and said the accounting practices she is being put on trial for were also commonly used by previous governments.
With unemployment above 11 percent, and dozens of politicians in her coalition implicated in a kickback scandal at state-led oil company Petrobras, the trial has become a test of Rousseff's support.
Polls show ordinary Brazilians are unconcerned by the alleged accounting irregularities but want Rousseff ousted in the hope the next government can better manage the economy.
If confirmed president by Rousseff's ouster, Temer would face a daunting task: steering Latin America's largest economy out of recession and plugging a budget deficit that has topped 10 percent of gross domestic product.
In the unlikely case that she is acquitted, Rousseff would immediately return to office.
Brazilian assets have rallied on prospects of a more market-friendly government, with the currency rising around 30 percent against the dollar this year. Still, investors and members of Temer's fragile coalition are concerned he has yet to implement measures to control the deficit.
Temer's right-leaning government has sought to speed up the trial so he can set about restoring confidence in a once-booming economy and remove any doubts about his legitimacy.
A draft budget for next year is not expected in Congress until Aug. 31, after the Senate votes, by which time Temer could have more political leverage to push through austerity measures.
Investors are concerned Temer might give in to pressure for spending increases such as pay hikes for public employees, including the nation's judges, a demand supported by Lewandowski.
Temer has proposed a constitutional limit on spending and a broad reform of Brazil's pension system to reverse a deteriorating fiscal outlook - moves applauded by credit rating agencies that last year stripped the country of its prized investment grade.
"While we expect the current administration to have a better chance of getting these reforms through Congress than the previous government, there is still no clear support to approve these measures," Moody's Investors Service said in a client note.
If Rousseff is removed, Temer must be sworn in by the Senate. He is then expected to address the nation before heading to the summit of the G20 group of leading economies in China on Sept. 4-5.
Without the legal protection of her presidential status, Rousseff could find herself in court facing an investigation into whether she and former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva tried to obstruct the Petrobras corruption probe.
Even Rousseff's Workers Party, hurt by corruption scandals and her dismal economic record, has distanced itself from her last-minute call for elections to resolve the political crisis.
Yet party leader Lula came to her defence on Thursday. Speaking to workers in the city of Niteroi, Lula said Rousseff may have committed policy errors but she was an honest politician who had done nothing to warrant her removal.
"What they're doing is finding a way to take power without winning votes in an election," he said. "Today is a shameful day. The senators have begun to rip up Brazil's constitution."
KARKAMIS, Turkey (Reuters) - Turkish troops fired on U.S.-backed Kurdish militia fighters in northern Syria on Thursday, highlighting the complications of an incursion meant to secure the border region against both Islamic State and Kurdish advances.
Syrian rebels backed by Turkish special forces, tanks and warplanes entered Jarablus, one of Islamic State's last strongholds on the Turkish-Syrian border, on Wednesday.
But President Tayyip Erdogan and senior government officials have made clear the aim of "Operation Euphrates Shield" is as much about stopping the Kurdish YPG militia seizing territory and filling the void left by Islamic State as it is about eliminating the ultra-hardline Islamist group itself.
A Turkish security source said the army shelled the People's Protection Units (YPG) south of Jarablus. Turkey's state-run Anadolu agency described the action as warning shots.
Gunfire and explosions echoed around hills in the region on Thursday, a day after the incursion first began.
Some of the blasts were triggered as Turkish security forces cleared mines and booby traps left by retreating Islamic State militants, according to Nuh Kocaaslan, the mayor of Karkamis, which sits just across the border from Jarablus. He said three Turkish-backed Syrian rebels were killed but no Turkish troops.
Turkey, which has NATO's second biggest armed forces, demanded that the YPG retreat to the east side of the Euphrates river within a week. The Kurdish militia had moved west of the river earlier this month as part of a U.S.-backed operation, now completed, to capture the city of Manbij from Islamic State.
Ankara views the YPG as a threat because of its close links to Kurdish militants waging a three-decade-old insurgency on its own soil. It has been alarmed by the YPG's gains in northern Syria since the start of the Syrian civil war in 2011, fearing it could extend Kurdish control along Turkish borders and fuel the ambitions of Kurdish insurgents in Turkey.
Turkey's stance has put it at odds with Washington, which sees the YPG as a rare reliable ally on the ground in Syria, where Washington is trying to defeat Islamic State while also opposing President Bashar al-Assad's government in a complex, multi-sided, five-year-old civil war.
The Syrian Kurdish force is one of the most powerful militias in Syria and regarded as the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a U.S.-backed alliance formed last October to fight Islamic State.
Turkish Defense Minister Fikri Isik said the Kurdish PYD party, the political arm of the YPG, wanted to unite Kurdish-controlled cantons east of Jarablus with those further west. "We cannot let this happen," he said.
"Islamic State should be completely cleansed, this is an absolute must. But it's not enough for us ... The PYD and the YPG militia should not replace Islamic State there," Isik told Turkish broadcaster NTV.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu by phone on Thursday that YPG fighters were retreating to the east side of the Euphrates, as Turkey has demanded, foreign ministry sources in Ankara said.
A spokesman for the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State said the SDF had withdrawn across the Euphrates, doing so "to prepare for the eventual liberation" of Raqqa, the radical group's stronghold which lies further east.
Isik said the retreat was not yet complete and Washington had given assurances that this would happen in the next week.
"If the PYD does not retreat to east of the Euphrates, we have the right to do everything about it," the minister said.
The offensive is Turkey's first major military operation since a failed July 15 coup shook confidence in its ability to step up the fight against Islamic State. It came four days after a suicide bomber suspected of links to the group killed 54 people at a wedding in the southeastern city of Gaziantep.
U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, who met Erdogan during a trip to Turkey on Wednesday, said Turkey was ready to stay in Syria for as long as it takes to destroy the radical Islamist group.
"I think there has been a gradual mind shift ... in Turkey, with the realization that ISIL is an existential threat to Turkey," he told reporters during a visit to Sweden, using an acronym for the militant group.
A Turkish official said the ground incursion had been in the works for more than two years but had been delayed by U.S. reservations, resistance from some Turkish commanders, and a stand-off with Russia which had made air cover impossible.
Turkey had made the case more strongly to Washington over the past few months, had patched up relations with Russia, and had removed some of the Turkish commanders from their posts after finding they were involved in the coup attempt, paving the way for the operation to go ahead, the official said.
The incursion comes at a testing time for Turkish-U.S. relations. Erdogan wants the United States to extradite Fethullah Gulen, a Turkish cleric who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania for 17 years and whose religious movement Turkey blames for staging last month's failed coup.
Washington says it needs clear evidence of Gulen's involvement and that it is a matter for the courts, a position that has sparked an outpouring of anti-Americanism from Turkey's pro-government media. Gulen denies any role in the coup attempt.
The sound of gunfire, audible from a hill on the Turkish side of the border overlooking Jarablus, rang out on Thursday and black smoke rose over the town. War planes flew overhead.
A senior Turkish official said there were now more than 20 Turkish tanks inside Syria and that additional tanks and construction machinery would be sent in as required. A Reuters witness saw at least nine tanks enter on Thursday, and 10 more were waiting outside a military outpost on the Turkish side.
"We need construction machinery to open up roads ... and we may need more in the days ahead. We also have armored personnel carriers that could be used on the Syrian side. We may put them into service as needed," the official said.
Erdogan said on Wednesday that Islamic State had been driven out of Jarablus and that it was now controlled by Turkish-backed Syrian rebels, who are largely Arab and Turkmen.
"The myth that the YPG is the only effective force fighting Islamic State has collapsed," Erdogan's spokesman Ibrahim Kalin wrote on Twitter, reflecting Turkish frustration at how closely Washington has been working with the Kurdish militia.
Saleh Muslim, head of the Kurdish PYD, said on Wednesday that Turkey was entering a "quagmire" in Syria and faced defeat there like Islamic State. Redur Xelil, spokesman for the YPG, said the intervention was a "blatant aggression in Syrian internal affairs".
After seizing Jarablus, the Turkish-backed rebels have advanced up to 10 km (6 miles) south of the border town, rebel sources and a group monitoring the war said.
But the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also said Kurdish-backed forces opposed by Ankara had gained up to 8 km of ground northwards, apparently seeking to pre-empt advances by the rebels.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian rebels, who this week seized a strategic town from Islamic State, aim to move westward in the next phase of their Turkey-backed operation, an advance that could take weeks or months to complete, a rebel commander said.
Colonel Ahmad Osman, head of the Sultan Murad group, also told Reuters the rebels did not wish to fight Kurdish forces that have advanced in northern Syria as part of a separate campaign against IS, but would do so if necessary.
Sultan Murad is one of the main Syrian rebel groups taking part in the operation that on Wednesday drove IS from the border town of Jarablus with help from Turkish special forces, warplanes and tanks.
The operation aims to expel IS from its last foothold at the Syrian-Turkish border, but also to prevent any further gains by the Kurdish YPG militia whose growing influence in Syria has alarmed Turkey as it battles its own Kurdish insurgency.
Osman, speaking to Reuters from Jarablus, said the priority was now to advance some 70 km (40 miles) westward to Marea, a town where rebels have long had a frontline with IS.
"We want to cleanse this area before moving south," Osman said. Failing to do so would leave the rebels at risk of IS counter attack, he said. "The priority is from Jarablus in the direction of al-Rai, reaching Marea."
Al-Rai is a village between Jarablus and Marea captured by rebels this month.
Osman said there were dozens of villages between Jarablus and Marea that must be recaptured from IS. "Liberating these villages between Jarablus and Marea requires weeks and perhaps months, according to the nature of the battles," he said.
Several rebel groups are taking part in the operation, fighting under the banner of the Free Syrian Army. They have received varying degrees of help from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's foreign enemies, including military aid and training.
Osman, 49, said both Turkey and the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State, of which Ankara is a part, were keen to provide air support for the operation.
The rebel factions have also advanced southward from Jarablus toward the city of Manbij, which was captured earlier this month from Islamic State by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) alliance including Kurdish fighters.
The SDF crossed the Euphrates river in order to attack Manbij. Turkey has demanded the Kurdish YPG fighters now go back across the river.
The rebels fighting with Turkish support are hostile to the YPG, with the sides clashing repeatedly since last year. "We are currently planning not to confront them, but if we have to confront them, we will," Osman said.
Osman, who defected from the Syrian military to join the uprising in 2012, said that for some operations, the number of rebel fighters may need to be increased from its current level of between 1,200 and 1,500.
"We are ready to supply greater numbers, depending on the nature of the battle," he said.
With its spacious, leafy campus, foreign professors and English-language MBAs, the American University in Kabul offers young Afghan students the kind of Western-style education unimaginable for most of their peers.
The image of an island of liberalism and learning in a country plagued by militant violence has been shattered.
On Wednesday evening, at least two gunmen stormed classrooms after a suspected car bomb was used to get into the walled complex, and killed seven students and a professor. (Full Story)
The death toll could have been far higher, with most students managing to barricade themselves in classrooms or flee to safety, even if it meant breaking bones as they jumped from the second floor of a building.
As security forces patrolled the 5-acre campus on Thursday and university staff visited the wounded in hospital, students weighed up the risks of returning to their education.
"Now my parents say I should stop studying there if it reopens, but I want to continue, because is there another institution like it in the whole country?" said Farooq, an international relations student.
Opened in 2006 and partly funded by U.S. aid, the not-for-profit American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) had grown to accommodate 1,700 students, offering some of the country's most respected degrees craved by young people restless for opportunities.
A slick promotion video on the university's website shows smiling Afghan men and women in traditional Western robes and mortar boards preparing to graduate.
Pupils range from poorer Afghans on scholarships to the sons and daughters of the country's elite.
The university also offers overseas exchange programmes to the United States and Germany, a further incentive to those deciding whether to go back.
"When the university reopens, I will be the first to enter and continue my education. The terrorists can never stop us from learning," said Wahida Faizi.
There has been no claim of responsibility for the raid, which ended after security forces cleared buildings early on Thursday.
Islamist militants have increasingly targeted educational institutions in countries including neighbouring Pakistan, in an effort to frighten the public and damage centres of learning they deem out of place in their vision of an Islamic society.
Taliban insurgents who control swathes of rural Afghanistan and want to topple the Western-backed government of President Ashraf Ghani also frequently attack places where foreigners live or gather, leaving the American University even more vulnerable.
Two teachers from the university, an American and an Australian, were abducted at gunpoint from a road near the campus on Aug. 7. They are still missing.
Among the wounded in Wednesday's attack was a Ugandan professor, according to the Kabul emergency hospital where he was being treated.
Despite security concerns, the university's reputation and unique setting have continued to attract overseas teaching staff, even as the insurgency grew and foreigners were targeted.
Some 60 percent of professors are foreign and the wider academic staff are drawn from 16 countries including Afghanistan, said Shamroz Khan Masjidi, a university spokesman.
Ten academics joined from overseas shortly before the start of classes in mid-August.
Security had been beefed up since 2014, when a wave of bombings in Kabul targeting foreign guesthouses, restaurants and clubs drove many expatriates to leave the city.
At the university, accommodation for foreign faculty members was built on site a few years ago, overseen by a watchtower and armed guards, and expatriates were chaperoned by an Afghan if they left the campus compound.
Still, security would have to be tightened further.
"Extra and upgraded measures have to be taken," said Masjidi, declining to specify what they would be.
Edrees Nawabi, another student at the university, said he feared that foreign teachers would be less willing to come to Kabul after the attack.
But Masjidi sounded a note of defiance.
RENO, Nev./MANCHESTER, N.H. (Reuters) - Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton accused Donald Trump on Thursday of fuelling America's "radical fringe" with racist rhetoric, even as her Republican rival sought to soften his image with an appeal to minorities.
Clinton needs to retain support from black and Latino voters to win the Nov. 8 election, the same coalition that helped propel Democrat Barack Obama to the White House in 2008. Trump, whose support comes mainly from whites, is unlikely to be victorious unless he can cut into that support.
"Donald Trump has built his campaign on prejudice and paranoia," Clinton said in a scathing speech in Nevada. "He’s taking hate groups mainstream and helping a radical fringe take over one of America’s two major political parties."
"This is a moment of reckoning for every Republican dismayed that the Party of Lincoln has become the Party of Trump," Clinton said, referring to Abraham Lincoln, the first Republican president, who issued the Emancipation Proclamation and championed the 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution during the Civil War that led to the abolition of slavery in 1865.
Trump, who trails Clinton in national opinion polls, has polled poorly with minorities and has been criticized for his proposals on immigration, which include deporting millions of undocumented foreigners, building a wall along the Mexican border, and suspending Muslim immigration to shore up national security.
He described some Mexican immigrants as "criminals and rapists" in a 2015 speech launching his candidacy and more recently questioned the impartiality of an American-born judge of Mexican heritage.
On Thursday, the New York real estate mogul-turned-politician criticized Clinton before her speech, saying she and her party had let black Americans down with failed economic policies and were falsely labelling Republicans as bigoted.
"When Democratic policies fail, they are left with only this one tired argument: You're racist, you're racist, you're racist," Trump told a crowd in Manchester, New Hampshire. "It’s a tired, disgusted argument and is so totally predictable.”
At a Mississippi rally on Wednesday, Trump called Clinton a "bigot who sees people of colour only as votes, not as human beings."
He argued on Thursday that Clinton's opposition to charter schools and vouchers locked minority students in failing jobs, that her tax policies would hurt black-owned businesses and that she would allow immigrants to take jobs from minorities.
Trump said the Clinton attacks were not only an assault on him, but on all his supporters - people, he said, who want strong borders and security.
“To Hillary Clinton, and to her donors and advisers, pushing her to spread smears and her lies about decent people, I have three words ... shame on you.”
A Reuters/Ipsos States of the Nation poll for the week beginning Aug. 15 found Clinton beating Trump among Hispanic voters by 15 percentage points, and by 57 percentage points among black voters.
Trump has tried recently to broaden his appeal to them, hinting at a softening of his hardline position on immigration.
In comments broadcast on Fox News on Wednesday night, Trump said he would be willing to work with immigrants who have abided by U.S. laws while living in the country, backing away from his insistence during the primaries that he would try to deport all 11 million illegal immigrants.
Trump also met with black and Latino Republican leaders at his headquarters in New York City on Thursday morning.
Trump's efforts were unlikely to draw out minorities in his favour but could reassure some moderate Republicans worried about his views on race, said Bernard Fraga, a political science professor at Indiana University.
"I don’t think these efforts will do a lot to help him in minority communities," Fraga said.
An association of 40 Latino organizations sent a letter on Thursday calling on him to "cease" his rhetoric and meet with their leadership to discuss ways he could improve his outreach to Hispanics.
"As we have expressed numerous times, your rhetoric of relentless attacks against our community is an issue of serious concern and has had a significant impact, fuelling an alarming trend in our nation," the letter reads.
Clinton released a video on Thursday ahead of her Nevada speech tying Trump to white supremacist groups. The video shows a Ku Klux Klan member praising Trump and plays a recording of former leader Klan leader David Duke calling on white people to vote for Trump.
The video also shows newly appointed Trump campaign chairman Steve Bannon, who ran the website Breitbart.com, which has been accused of stoking online racists.    
Bannon told the magazine Mother Jones during the Republican National Convention last month that the website was "the platform for the alt-right," a brand of U.S. political conservatism associated with white nationalism.
Trump's campaign called for the Clinton campaign to withdraw the video.
"This type of rhetoric and repulsive advertising is revolting and completely beyond the pale," Mark Burns, an African-American pastor who supports Trump, said in a statement. "I call on Hillary Clinton to disavow this video and her campaign for this sickening act that has no place in our world."
(Reuters) - A U.S. judge ordered the State Department on Thursday to release by Sept. 13 any emails it finds between Hillary Clinton and the White House from the week of the 2012 attack in Benghazi, Libya, among the thousands of additional emails uncovered by federal investigators.
The order came after the Federal Bureau of Investigation gave the department a disc earlier this month containing 14,900 emails to and from Clinton and other documents it said it had recovered that she did not return to the government.
Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, has been criticized for using an unauthorized private email system run from a server in the basement of her home while she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013, a decision she says was wrong and that she regrets.
The issue has hung over her campaign for the White House and raised questions among voters about her trustworthiness.
Judge William Dimitrouleas of the U.S. District Court in southern Florida made his order in response to a request by the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch, which is suing the State Department for Clinton-era records under freedom of information laws.
Spokesmen for Clinton did not respond to requests for
comment.
At least one other judge has said the department will eventually have to release all the newly recovered work emails, and at least some are expected to appear before the Nov. 8 presidential election.
After the system's existence became more widely known, Clinton returned what she said were all her work emails to the State Department in 2014, and the department released them in batches to the public, some 30,000 in all.
The FBI took her server in 2015 after it was discovered she had sent and received classified government secrets through the system, which the government bans.
Clinton has said she did not know the information was classified at the time.
After a year-long investigation, FBI Director James Comey said last month that Clinton should have recognised the sensitivity of the information and that she had been "extremely careless" with government secrets. But he said there were not enough grounds for a prosecution, a decision criticized by Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and other Republicans.
It remained unclear if there were any newly discovered emails that related to the September 2012 attack on a U.S. facility in Benghazi, Libya, in which four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, were killed.
"Using broad search terms, we have identified a number of documents potentially responsive to a Benghazi-related request," Elizabeth Trudeau, a State Department spokeswoman, said in a statement. "At this time, we have not confirmed that the documents are, in fact, responsive. We also have not determined if they involve Secretary Clinton."
GENEVA (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry arrived in Geneva on Thursday to try to finalise details of a deal with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on military cooperation and intelligence sharing in Syria.
American and Russian officials, whose governments back opposite sides in the five-year Syrian war, have been meeting since July on the plan aimed at defeating Islamic State. Kerry and Lavrov are to meet on Friday for talks.
Kerry said earlier this week the talks were nearing an end, with technical teams still meeting.
Kerry arrived from Jeddah, where he announced a plan to end the conflict in Yemen and also discussed Syria with Gulf Arab states, which support various rebel factions in Syria's war.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - The number of people who have travelled overseas from Canada and are suspected of involvement in radical activities has grown, security officials said in a report that found the number of women leaving to join Islamic State was also on the rise.
At the end of 2015, 60 of what Canada calls "extremist travellers" had returned to the country, according to the annual report released on Thursday by Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale.
These returnees are being monitored by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police as a top priority, Goodale's spokesman said. Goodale has overall responsibility for law enforcement, including the RCMP and Canadian Security Intelligence Service.
The main security threat comes from individuals acting alone or in small groups who are inspired by militant groups such as Islamic State and al Qaeda rather than directed by them.
The report comes just two weeks after an Islamic State supporter who was in the final stages of preparing an attack on a Canadian city with a homemade bomb was killed during a police raid at his home in Ontario.
At the end of last year, the government was aware of about 180 individuals with a connection to Canada who were abroad and suspected of "engaging in terrorism-related activities", the report said.
That is up from approximately 130 individuals in 2014. More than half of the 180 are believed to be in Turkey, Iraq or Syria, where the ongoing conflict has destabilised the region.
Women now make up about 20 percent of total extremist travellers from Canada, in some cases taking their children to conflict zones, the report said.
Although it is commonly assumed that women travel abroad to marry extremists, some may take on secondary roles within militant groups, while others appear to be taking part in combat, the report said.
It was the first major security report issued since the Liberal government came into power last year. The Liberals campaigned on a plan to scale back a 2015 law that gave increased powers to security authorities in the wake of two deadly attacks by homegrown radicals in 2014.
Since the thwarted attack earlier this month, the government has said it will continue with its plans to reform the law and is beginning national security consultations.
A gunman killed a soldier at Ottawa's national war memorial before launching an attack on Parliament in October 2014, while a man ran down two soldiers in Quebec, killing one, around the same time.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi held talks on Thursday with visiting Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem about securing their common border, an official Iraqi statement said, after a partial retreat by Islamic State militants.
This year the jihadist group has lost about half the land it seized in 2014 and 2015 in Iraq but it remains in control of territory on both sides of the northwestern border with Syria.
Abadi is hoping to take back Mosul, the largest Iraqi city under Islamic State's control, effectively defeating the group in Iraq.
"Securing the common border was discussed as our heroic forces get close to the border with Syria," said a statement by the Iraqi government published after the talks in Baghdad.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's foreign minister has called for a new arms control deal with Moscow to avoid an escalation of tensions in Europe, where intensified military exercises by Russia and NATO have raised concerns that a war could inadvertently be triggered.
In an apparent reference to Russia's annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine, Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Russia had violated basic, non-negotiable principles of peace, breaking delicate bonds of trust built up over decades.
"At the same time, we must all be united in the desire to avoid a further twist in the escalating spiral," he said in an advanced release of an opinion piece to run in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung's Friday edition.
He said a new arms control process would offer a "proven means for transparency, risk avoidance and trust building".
"In addition, we want a structured dialogue, with all partners who carry responsibility for the security of our continent," he wrote, noting that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) could be a forum for talks.
On Wednesday, a group of former foreign and defence ministers said Russia and NATO must agree common rules to handle unexpected military encounters to reduce the risk of inadvertently triggering a war between Moscow and the West.
Steinmeier, a Social Democrat, drew the criticism from NATO officials in June after warning their decision to stage military manoeuvres in eastern Europe amounted to "sabre-rattling and shrill war cries" that could worsen tensions with Russia.
His Social Democrats (SPD) generally back a more conciliatory stance towards Russia than Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative bloc.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraq's parliament impeached Defence Minister Khaled al-Obeidi on Thursday over corruption allegations, removing him from office as the army gears up for an assault on Islamic State's de facto capital, Mosul.
Two lawmakers said parliament voted 142-102 to withdraw confidence from Obeidi after questioning him this month about weapons contracts. He had denied the corruption allegations and in turn accused Parliament Speaker Salim al-Jabouri and five other MPs of wrongdoing.
Obeidi, a Sunni Muslim ally of Shi'ite Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, had spearheaded the military campaign to retake territory that the ultra-hardline Sunni Islamic State group seized in 2014 and said he had cut down on graft including ghost soldiers -- members of the military who do not exist but whose salaries are collected.
"Those who brought Iraq to where it is now have triumphed," Obeidi said in a Facebook post following parliament's vote. "I tried with everything to fight corruption but it appears that its masters are stronger, their voices louder and their actions more enduring."
Lawmakers have accused the Defence Ministry of wasting billions of dollars and weakening the armed forces to the point where they collapsed in 2014 in the face of the Islamic State onslaught under the previous government led by Nuri al-Maliki, who was also acting defence minister.
Thirteen years after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein and led to sectarian violence, OPEC oil producer Iraq ranks 161st out of 168 nations in Transparency International's corruption index.
The military is slowly being rebuilt with the support of a U.S.-led coalition, which has been bombing Islamic State militants in Iraq and neighbouring Syria. The army and Iranian-backed Shi'ite militias have retaken many areas from the militants, but the biggest test will be the battle for Mosul.
It was not immediately clear how Obeidi's departure would affect that offensive, which Iraqi officials have said could start as soon as next month, a timeline some coalition officials consider too ambitious.
"It will not negatively influence counter-terrorism efforts against Daesh, nor will it hinder the Mosul operation," said senior Shi'ite MP and former national security adviser Mowaffak al-Rubaie, using an Arabic acronym for Islamic State.
Brett McGurk, the U.S. envoy to the anti-IS coalition, said this month that the row between Obeidi and Jabouri would not derail the Mosul offensive.
A Baghdad-based spokesman on Thursday said the coalition remained committed to supporting Iraqi security forces, declining to speculate on the possibility of fallout on the battlefield from Obeidi's departure, which he called "a matter for the government of Iraq".
Critics of the vote condemned Obeidi's questioning as political. Sunni lawmaker Khalid al-Mifraji described the impeachment as "a crack in our war against Daesh".
JEDDAH, Saudi Arabia (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Thursday he had agreed in talks with Gulf Arab states and the United Nations in Saudi Arabia on a plan to restart peace talks Yemen with a goal of forming a unity government.
U.N.-sponsored negotiations to end 18 months of fighting in the impoverished country on Saudi Arabia's southern border collapsed this month and the dominant Iran-allied Houthi movement there resumed shelling attacks into the kingdom.
Speaking at a press conference with his Saudi counterpart Adel al-Jubeir in the Saudi city of Jeddah, Kerry said the conflict in which the kingdom has launched thousands of air strikes in favour of the exiled government had gone on too long and needed to end.
Kerry said the Houthis must cease shelling across the border with Saudi Arabia, pull back from the capital Sanaa which they took control of two years ago, cede their weapons and enter into a unity government with their domestic foes.
Yemen's internationally recognised government, based in Saudi Arabia, has made similar demands but insisted that the Houthis fulfil all those measures before any new government was formed. However Kerry suggested they could move ahead in parallel.
"We agreed on a renewed approach to negotiations with both a security and political track simultaneously working in order to provide a comprehensive settlement," Kerry said.
"The final agreement ... would include in the first phase a swift formation of a new national unity government, the withdrawal of forces from Sanaa and other areas and the transfer of all heavy weapons including ballistic missiles, from the Houthis and forces aligned to them to a third party."
The reference to handing weapons to a third party also appeared to be a departure from the government demands.
"This leaves nothing for future speculation," Kerry said. "This has a clarity to it about how confidence can be built, what the end game looks like, and how the parties get there."
Jubeir said Saudi Arabia and the United States had agreed a way forward for Yemen and said the U.N. envoy to Yemen would take it up with the parties.
"We managed to come out with a vision related to a roadmap for Yemen, which the U.N. envoy had discussed with us so there will be clarity on the final settlement which the U.N. envoy will discuss with the Yemeni parties," Jubeir told the news conference.
Saudi Arabia, a key U.S. ally, has come under stiff criticism from rights groups for air strikes that have repeatedly killed civilians in Yemen.
The Yemen war has killed more than 6,500 people and displaced some 3 million.
The United Nations human rights office said in report on Thursday that the Saudi-led coalition was responsible for 60 percent of the 3,799 civilians killed in the war.
During his 24-hour visit to Saudi Arabia, Kerry met representatives of the Gulf Arab countries who mostly back the kingdom's war effort.
Saudi Arabia and its allies view the Houthis, who hail from a branch of Shi'ite Islam, as proxies of their archrival Iran.
The Houthis deny this and say the exiled government and the Saudis are imperialist pawns of the West bent on dominating Yemen and excluding them from power.
Jubeir denied this, saying the kingdom had "no interest, no claims in Yemen."
Kerry flew to Jeddah on Wednesday night from Nigeria. His talks with Saudi leaders and other Gulf Arab states were also due to cover possible U.S. military cooperation with Russia in Syria, a senior U.S. official said.
Backing by Gulf Arab states for the Syria plan is vital because they wield influence over Syrian opposition groups fighting to topple President Bashar al-Assad. Russia and Iran support Assad.
In his 30-minute meeting with King Salman, Kerry exchanged words with the 80-year-old monarch about his health. Speaking through a translator in the first public comments on recent surgery in the United States, he complained about his back.
"We're happy to see you in good form," Kerry said, before reporters were ushered from the room.
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria (Reuters) - Hundreds of people displaced by a Boko Haram insurgency in Nigeria's northeast staged a protest in the region's main city on Thursday to demand more aid, accusing officials of stealing food rations, witnesses said.
They left their camps in Maiduguri, capital of the northeastern Borno state, and blocked the highway to Kano, another big city, for five hours, demanding that distribution by feeding committees be ended.
The U.N. food program WFP last week warned that up to 5.5 million people in the volatile northeast might need food aid by next month as soaring inflation was pushing up food prices.
The Nigerian army, backed by its neighbours, has retaken most territory previously lost to Boko Haram jihadists, which have been staging a seven-year insurgency in the northeast. But most who have fled fighting are afraid to go back and harvest their fields as the security situation remains volatile.
"They don't give us good food. The quality is bad. Most of the foodstuffs are being diverted by the officials, selling them to make quick money," said Aisha Ali, one of the protesters.
"We're hungry and we don't want any feeding committee again because they aren't giving us quality food. Give us our food directly," said Halima Mustapha, referring to a state body distributing aid.
Borno's deputy state governor Usman Durkwa said he had suspended the feeding committee to investigate the accusations and ordered two trucks to deliver food directly to the needy.
"Each family will now get its food stuffs and cook," he told reporters.
On Friday, the WFP said there were "catastrophic levels" of suffering in the northeast, warning of a "regional crisis".
The Boko Haram insurgency has displaced some 2.3 million people, who mostly live in camps in and near Maiduguri.
The jihadist group, which has been trying to set up an Islamic state in the north, still stages regularly suicide bombings, despite having to retreat to the Sambisa forest south of Maiduguri, its main stronghold.
KABUL (Reuters) - Thirteen people, including students and a professor, were killed in an attack on the American University in Kabul that had students leaping from the windows in panic, the Afghan government said on Thursday.
The attack began on Wednesday evening with a large explosion from what officials said was a car bomb followed by gunfire, as suspected militants stormed into the complex where foreign staff and pupils were working.
It ended early on Thursday when two gunmen were shot dead by Afghan special forces who surrounded the walled compound and worked their way inside, interior ministry officials said.
The Afghan presidential palace said in a statement that seven students, three security force personnel, two security guards and one professor were killed in the attack, the second incident involving the university this month.
Islamist militant groups, mainly the Afghan Taliban and a local offshoot of Islamic State, have claimed a string of bomb attacks aimed at toppling the Western-backed government of President Ashraf Ghani.
But there was no claim of responsibility for the raid.
Ghani, in a statement, called the assault "a cowardly attempt" to hinder progress in Afghanistan. Such attacks would only strengthen the government's resolve to fight terror, he said.
The university said it was working with authorities to make sure everyone was accounted for.
Fraidoon Obaidi, chief of the Kabul police criminal investigation department, told Reuters that police had evacuated between 700 and 750 students from the university, which is popular with the children of Afghanistan's elite.
The Afghan presidential palace said initial findings by the intelligence services showed that the attack was planned in neighboring Pakistan. Afghanistan frequently accuses militants it says are in Pakistan for attacks on its soil.
Pakistan's army chief General Raheel Sharif spoke with the Afghan president, condemned the attack and pledged to cooperate fully with the Afghan investigation, Pakistan's military said.
A spokesman for the Pakistan government did not respond to a request for comment.
Authorities in Islamabad have long rejected accusations that Pakistan has provided support and sanctuary to militants who would attack Afghanistan.
The gunmen got into the building despite armed guards and watchtowers.
Students recounted barricading themselves in classrooms or jumping from windows to escape when the attack started.
"Many students jumped from the second floor, some broke their legs and some hurt their head trying to escape," Abdullah Fahimi, a student who escaped, told Reuters. He injured his ankle making the leap.
"We were in the class when we heard a loud explosion followed by gunfire. It was very close. Some students were crying, others were screaming," he said.
Others used an emergency exit, scaled walls and jumped to safety.
It was the second time this month that the university or its staff had been targeted.
Two teachers, an American and an Australian, were abducted at gunpoint from a road near the university on Aug. 7. They are still missing.
The American University of Afghanistan has about 1,700 students and advertises itself as the country's only not-for-profit, "non-partisan", co-educational university. It opened in 2006 and caters to full-time and part-time students.
Taliban insurgents control large swathes of Afghanistan, and the security forces are struggling to contain them, especially in the provinces of Helmand to the south and Kunduz to the north.
NATO ended its combat mission in December 2014 but thousands of foreign troops remain to train and assist Afghan forces, while several thousand other U.S. soldiers are engaged in a separate mission focusing on al Qaeda and Islamic State.
The United States said it was closely monitoring the situation in Kabul following the attack and that forces from the U.S.-led coalition were involved in the response in an advise-and-assist role.
HAVANA (Reuters) - Colombia's government peace negotiators hit back on Thursday at critics of a deal to end half a century of war with leftist FARC guerrillas, saying the cost of bringing the rebel fighters into society was much lower than spending on the conflict.
The government and the FARC, or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, said on Wednesday that they had reached an agreement that effectively ends a 52-year conflict that led to the deaths of more than 220,000 people and left millions displaced.
Opponents of the deal, led by former President Alvaro Uribe, say it gives rebels amnesty for too many crimes and is unfair to law-abiding citizens because it calls for subsidizing fighters as they leave jungle and mountain hideouts to look for work.
The agreement must now be approved by Colombians in an Oct. 2 referendum, and the government must win support from many who would prefer to have defeated the guerrillas through military force to avenge years of kidnappings and attacks.
The team that spent nearly four years negotiating with the FARC in Havana held a news conference to defend the deal, saying the government and society must help integrate the fighters, some who have spent decades in camps.
"This is for Colombia, so that what happened in Central America does not happen here - that we abandon them after they lay down their weapons and they end up in criminal groups or taking up weapons again," said Senator Roy Barreras, one of the negotiators.
Violent crime has increased sharply in Central American countries such as El Salvador and Guatemala since guerrillas and other armed groups were demobilized in the 1990s, a crisis some blame on the failure to help fighters adjust to civilian life.
Part of the plan to help the FARC fighters includes paying them 90 percent of Colombia's minimum wage as they emerge from their hideouts. The negotiators compared the monthly $200 subsidy to the thousands of dollars spent on each army bombing raid.
"War is much more expensive, even without counting the human cost," Barreras said.
The 297-page peace agreement will be sent to Colombia's Congress on Thursday for approval. President Juan Manuel Santos and a FARC representative will sign it before the October referendum, the negotiators said.
Most opinion polls suggest Colombians will back the deal, but the nation is deeply divided and caught in a heated debate over what sort of justice the rebels should face.
Under the agreement, the rebels and government soldiers will receive amnesty for all but the gravest crimes, an arrangement similar to one Uribe struck with right-wing paramilitary groups when he was in office.
If the deal is approved, FARC will have non-voting representation in Congress until 2018 and can participate in elections. From then on, the former rebels will have to win votes like candidates in any other political party.
Once the agreement is signed, a 180-day countdown begins toward the full demobilization of the fighters, a process that the international community will monitor.
Both the White House and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton congratulated Colombia on the deal and promised U.S. support for implementing it.
"As president, I'll ensure that the United States remains their partner in that process," Clinton said. "The people of Colombia deserve nothing less."
LISBON (Reuters) - Portugal on Thursday asked Iraq to waive the diplomatic immunity of the twin sons of its ambassador after prosecutors sought their interrogation as formal suspects in the beating of a local youth who ended up in intensive care.
The case, which risks escalating into a diplomatic row, caused an uproar in Portugal after the two 17-year-olds, who have acknowledged their part in the beating of 15-year-old Ruben Cavaco on Aug. 17, were swiftly released by police on the night of the incident.
The foreign ministry said on Thursday that it had handed the request to the Iraqi embassy's charge d'affaires, and now awaited a response from the Iraqi authorities. Ambassador Saad Mohammed Ridha travelled to Baghdad on Tuesday.
As family members of a diplomat the twins are protected from prosecution in the host country under international convention on diplomatic relations.
The prosecutor general's office said in a statement earlier that it asked the foreign ministry to intervene after the investigation pointed to "facts that could potentially constitute the crime of attempted manslaughter".
"With the pieces of evidence already collected and the investigation carried out so far, it is considered essential that the two suspects with diplomatic immunity be interrogated as formal suspects in order to clarify the facts," it said.
The incident took place in Ponte de Sor in central Portugal where one of the brother is attending flying school.
In an early statement the Iraqi embassy said the brothers, Haider and Ridha, had acted in self-defence and their attackers had shouted racist and anti-Muslim slurs, though the brothers themselves in later comments to media did not repeat this.
They told SIC television channel on Monday they had first been attacked by a group of young men, including Cavaco, after a night of drinking at a bar. They said they were later  confronted once more by Cavaco which is when they beat him.
The brothers apologised to Cavaco and his family but said they were all "victims of circumstance" and that the media had exaggerated the case. After several days in a drug induced coma, Cavaco left intensive care unit on Tuesday.
It is only possible for a diplomat's home country to waive immunity, but such cases are rare. Portugal can expel a diplomat or his family, but cannot question or detain the suspects. If Iraq refuses to waive immunity, it could still prosecute the two at home, if it so chooses.
TACUEYO, Colombia (Reuters) - Jose Toconas picks at branches hanging in rows from the roof of his marijuana drying house and smells their spiky flower buds.
In two days he will strip them from their stems, trim the dark green florets into neat little balls and hand them over to  dealers working with Marxist rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).
"This doesn't make me a drug dealer. I'm a farmer," says  Toconas, 45, who earns about 2 million pesos ($640) a month growing weed at his small mountain farm in Tacueyo, a hamlet in Colombia's southwestern Cauca province.
"They come to my door, pay me and leave. If coffee or beans paid me more, I'd grow coffee or beans, but they don't."
Those simple economics will be one of President Juan Manuel Santos' biggest problems as he seeks to eliminate illegal drug production with the help of FARC rebels now that the two sides have agreed a peace deal to end half a century of conflict.
Under the peace accord, unveiled by both sides on  Wednesday, FARC leaders pledged to work with the government to eradicate coca and marijuana production in areas they have controlled, help farmers switch to legal crops and foster development in long-neglected, poor rural areas.
But that leaves the door open for other trafficking groups to replace the FARC, which have for decades taxed growers and drug dealers, taken a hefty cut of profits from local and overseas sales and at times traded directly with powerful Mexican drug cartels.
Crime gangs and another Marxist rebel group, the National Liberation Army (ELN), are already moving into Cauca and other drug trafficking hot spots where poor growers of marijuana and coca, the raw material for cocaine, sell to the highest bidder.
"I'd rather keep growing," said Toconas of his marijuana crop. He says he switched out of coca cultivation 10 years ago when the government's fumigation program made it too risky.
The government says it will move quickly to try to stop other gangs expanding their drug operations.
"In territories left vacant by the FARC we have to fill the space immediately because organised crime will get there quickly," Defence Minister Luis Carlos Villegas told Reuters.
Trafficking of cocaine and marijuana has been a scourge in Colombia since the 1980s, when the country's most famous trafficker Pablo Escobar earned billions and used bombings and assassinations to protect his cocaine empire.
While no one has been able to match the power and wealth  that Escobar enjoyed before he was shot dead by police in 1993,  the industry remains lucrative.
The government has stepped up its offensive against gangs in recent months as the Clan del Golfo, formed by former right-wing paramilitaries who were demobilized in a previous peace deal, took advantage of a FARC ceasefire to gain new territory and smuggling routes.
The mountain road from El Palo to Toribio in FARC-dominated Cauca is already daubed with fresh graffiti proclaiming the ELN's arrival, and residents complain they are hassled by the trafficking gangs.
Like the FARC, the ELN wants to negotiate a peace deal with  the government, but many Colombians believe some fighters from both groups will join drug gangs once they give up as rebel fighters.
Today's most successful crime gangs formed after a 2006 peace accord with paramilitaries failed to absorb thousands into society.
Some FARC fighters already shift their allegiances between the two rebel groups and crime gangs, said Alcibiades Escue, Toribio's 53-year-old mayor.
"By day they wear the FARC insignia and by nightfall they've switched to the ELN," he said, only half joking.
Many residents here are sceptical.
"Even if peace is signed there won't be peace," said Jeymi Orozco, 19, who helps pack marijuana for dealers at her adobe shack on the road to Toribio.
"They will all come, all the gangs. And if the government tries to eradicate coca and marijuana there will be more struggle," she says of the problems that could arise if their livelihood is removed.
While most marijuana and coca farmers are poor, it is a profitable business higher up the chain and the FARC has earned billions of dollars from it over the years.
The government has promised to provide subsidies to get legal production - of citrus fruits, coffee and beans - started, as well as investment in roads and education.
But the mountains of Cauca - and most areas with illegal crops - are far from the reach of the state.
Dirt roads are often washed away by rain, making it difficult for farmers to make a living selling legal crops. With coca and marijuana, FARC agents come to the farms to collect the goods.
Luz Mari Teteche, 42, earns about 36,000 pesos ($12) daily as a so-called hairdresser, trimming the leaves from marijuana flowers using kitchen scissors and bagging the buds in sacks.
Hidden behind plastic tarpaulins, she works her fingers raw about 12 days a month to feed her family.
"This pays better than coffee and it has more harvests a  year than coffee," she says, reaching for another marijuana  ranch from the stack at her feet. "The government will have to  give big subsidies for people to stop this work."
Many question how Colombia will fund crop replacement programs and infrastructure projects given the slowing economy is already facing a massive shortfall in revenue as oil prices slump.
U.S. financial support under the so-called Plan Colombia to combat rebels and drug gangs has also been reduced.
At night here, the lush valleys are ablaze with electric lamps that ensure the marijuana grows quicker, and flashy four-wheel drive pick-ups roll non-stop along dirt tracks, their back ends filled with sacks of marijuana and coca leaves.
"Crime gangs are probably drooling - but they should be worried too," said Eduardo Diaz, head of the president's crop substitution program, highlighting the government's tougher stance on the gangs.
While Colombia has had patchy success in its fight against illegal drugs - a $10 billion effort by the United States did little to dent coca cultivation - Santos is betting a beefed-up campaign against criminal networks will keep them in disarray long enough to prevent a move on the FARC's drug business before farmers accept a switch into legal crops.
He recently authorized air raids against crime gangs, a move that was key to combating the FARC.
"Peace won't bring an end to the criminal activities of today," said General Jose Mendoza, head of the anti-narcotics police. "We have to keep fighting."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House on Thursday said it supported the United Nations' efforts to bring humanitarian relief to the divided Syrian city of Aleppo and would welcome Russia's constructive engagement.
"What the United States supports is the U.N. effort to try to broker all sides to come together around some kind of agreement that would allow humanitarian assistance to reach people in the city who so badly need it," White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters when asked about Russia's agreeing to a 48-hour humanitarian ceasefire.
"And we certainly would welcome the Russians and others engaging constructively in that process," he added.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Finnish Health Minister Hanna Mantyla said on Tuesday she was stepping down for personal reasons just as the three-party ruling coalition seeks to pass a complicated healthcare reform which nearly led to the government's collapse last year.
Mantyla, who belongs to the co-ruling eurosceptic Finns Party, has been her party's lead negotiator on the reform, which is hoped to bring long-term savings worth 3 billion euros ($3.4 billion).
Another Finns Party member, parliamentarian Pirkko Mattila, will replace her starting from next week, the party said. Mantyla is tipped as a possible successor of Timo Soini, long-time leader of the party who is also foreign minister.
The health care reform is a cornerstone in Prime Minister Juha Sipila's plan to balance Finland's public finances and is part of a long-term savings plan of 10 billion euros.
Euro zone member Finland is struggling to return to growth after years of stagnation due to a string of problems, including a decline of Nokia's former phone business and recession in neighbouring Russia.
Finland's national debt breached the EU limit of 60 percent of gross domestic product in 2015, partly why the country lost its last AAA credit rating in June.
Soini said on Tuesday the reform was on track but challenging.
"There are no major disagreements, but coalition parties have different priorities... and nothing is ready until the whole package is ready. It is a difficult reform, as we saw last year."
Mantyla's resignation comes as support for the Finns party has been hurt by compromises it made on austerity, the migrant crisis as well as on euro zone bailouts.
The party has also raised with the idea of a 'Fixit' referendum, following Britain's 'Brexit' vote to leave the European Union, despite recent polls showing support for EU membership growing among Finns.
A poll for national broadcaster YLE last week showed 7.6 percent of respondents supported the Finns Party, down from 17.7 percent in parliament elections in 2015.
($1 = 0.8876 euros)
OSLO (Reuters) - Sea ice around Antarctica shrank in a warm period more than 100,000 years ago, an indication that man-made climate change could also trigger an abrupt retreat, a scientific report said Tuesday.
A thaw would reverse a paradoxical expansion of the extent of floating ice on the ocean around the frozen continent in recent decades, apparently defying the trend of global warming blamed on greenhouse gases.
Winter sea ice around Antarctica shrank 65 percent in a natural warm period between Ice Ages about 128,000 years ago, when temperatures were slightly warmer than now, according to the report in the journal Nature Communications.
The conclusions were based on ancient ice cores drilled from deep in the Antarctic ice sheet. The chemistry of snow indicates how far it blew from the ocean before it landed and got compressed into ice.
The ancient shrinking of the ice helps underpin forecasts by a panel of U.N. climate experts that global warming will mean a 58 percent retreat in Antarctica's sea ice by around the year 2200, the British scientific team that wrote the report concluded.
"A major reduction at 128,000 years ago could indicate a tipping point in the sea ice system," they wrote.
Lead author Max Holloway of the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) told Reuters that the ancient shrinking of sea ice may have preceded a collapse of an ice sheet in West Antarctica that spilled into the sea and pushed up sea levels.
"With a major reduction in sea ice, you'd expect the ice sheets to be more sensitive," he said. Separately, in 2014 another study suggested that some glaciers in West Antarctica have already begun an irreversible thaw.
Sceptics who reject mainstream scientific findings about global warming often point to the expansion of sea ice around Antarctica as evidence. Sea ice in the Arctic at the other end of the planet has been shrinking in recent decades.
Scientists say the contradictory trends may partly be because Antarctica is a continent surrounded by an open ocean, while the Arctic is an ocean surrounded by land - mainly Russia, Canada, Greenland and Alaska.
"By uncovering, for the first time, a huge retreat around Antarctica, we have established that sea ice in the Southern Hemisphere is also susceptible to major climate changes," co-author Louise Sime of BAS said in a statement.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China wants to have closer military ties with Syria, state media on Tuesday cited a senior Chinese officer as saying during a rare visit to the war-torn Middle Eastern country.
While relying on the region for oil supplies, China tends to leave Middle Eastern diplomacy to the other permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, namely the United States, Britain, France and Russia.
But China has been trying to get more involved, including sending envoys to help push for a diplomatic resolution to the violence there and hosting Syrian government and opposition figures.
Guan Youfei, director of the Office for International Military Cooperation of China's Central Military Commission, met Syrian Defence Minister Fahad Jassim al-Freij in Damascus, China's Xinhua state news agency said.
Guan said China had consistently played a positive role in pushing for a political resolution in Syria.
"China and Syria's militaries have a traditionally friendly relationship, and China's military is willing to keep strengthening exchanges and cooperation with Syria's military," the news agency paraphrased Guan as saying.
Both also talked about personnel training and "reached a consensus" on the Chinese military providing humanitarian aid, Xinhua added, without elaborating.
Guan also met a Russian general in Damascus, the news agency said, without giving details.
While China has shown no interest in getting involved militarily in Syria, China's special envoy for the crisis there in April praised Russia's military role in the war.
China has its own security concerns about violence in the region.
China is worried that Uighurs, a mostly Muslim people from western China's Xinjiang region, have ended up in Syria and Iraq fighting for militant groups there, having travelled illegally via Southeast Asia and Turkey.
MADRID (Reuters) - Spain's interim prime minister will move within touching distance of ending an eight-month legislative stalemate on Wednesday when his party considers an offer of support for a new government in exchange for political reforms.
Centrist party Ciudadanos proposed the six-point reform package - aimed at fighting corruption and making the voting system more proportional - to the Conservative People's Party (PP) and its leader Mariano Rajoy last week.
An endorsement by the PP, which won national elections in June but fell short of a majority, would open the way to Ciudadanos ("Citizens") backing Rajoy - currently acting premier - as head of a new government in a parliamentary investiture vote.
The June ballot followed an equally inconclusive one in December, also won by the PP and since when parties across the political spectrum have held a series of so far fruitless negotiations to form a workable coalition government.
Leaders of the PP will meet on Wednesday, when they are widely expected to endorse the Ciudadanos plan, even though it would involve launching a parliamentary investigation into an alleged PP slush fund.
In Madrid, the PP made similar pledges to Ciudadanos to be able to govern locally after regional elections in May 2015.
"What's important now is to form a (national) government," Madrid region leader Cristina Cifuentes told fellow PP campaigners last week.
In the December election Ciudadanos and a second newcomer party, leftist Podemos ("We Can"), broke the traditional dominance of Spain's centre-left Socialists and centre-right PP, which have ruled Spain in single-party governments since the end of the Franco dictatorship in 1975.
The formula of a coalition government remains untested after eight months of political deadlock, and Ciudadanos - which finished fourth in June - has ruled out entering one now.
But together it and the PP hold 169 seats, only just short of a majority in the 350-strong lower parliamentary house.
The need for a viable government is also becoming more urgent as Spain must soon prepare a budget for 2017 to keep on track an economic recovery that has thus far weathered the political uncertainty.
Socialist leader Pedro Sanchez has repeatedly said his party would oppose Rajoy as prime minister in any investiture vote. But a shift by Ciudadanos to back Rajoy would pile pressure on the Socialists to cede ground by abstaining.
"If Ciudadanos decides to back Rajoy, it will be really hard for the Socialists to justify a continued veto," said Vincenzo Scarpetta, a political analyst at Open Europe in London.
"They cannot come across as blocking the situation for the sake of blocking it, without proposing a credible alternative."
El Mundo newspaper reported on Tuesday that, rather than vote on the pact, the PP leadership will on Wednesday simply discuss it and give Rajoy free rein to hold further talks with Ciudadanos.
Spanish media say Rajoy is in any case expected to move quickly after Wednesday's meeting to set a date for parliamentary vote on his premiership, possibly in early September.
Ciudadanos' reform measures also include ending legal protection for lawmakers and the immediate removal from office of politicians who become formal suspects in court cases.
The smaller party also seeks a limit of two terms on a given prime minister's mandate.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Six volleyball players from the Cuban national team have been charged with aggravated rape in Finland, regional prosecutors said in a statement on Tuesday.
The suspected rape occurred in July in the city of Tampere, at the hotel where the team was staying. The Cuba team were in Finland playing in a World League tournament prior to the Rio Olympics.
Finnish police initially detained eight players, but released two of them who are no longer suspects. A court ordered six suspects to remain in custody while the investigation continued. All six men have denied the charge.
The Cuban team decided to compete in the Rio Olympics despite the detention of their players in Finland, but lost all their five games.
PARIS (Reuters) - The French government has defended municipal bans on body-covering Muslim burkini swimwear but called on mayors to try and cool tensions between communities.
Three Mediterranean towns - Cannes, Villeneuve-Loubet and Sisco on the island of Corsica - have banned the burkini, and Le Touquet on the Atlantic coast is planning to do the same.
The mainly conservative mayors who have imposed the ban say the garment, which leaves only the face, hands and feet exposed, defies French laws on secularism.
The burkini debate is particularly sensitive in France given deadly attacks by Islamist militants, including bombings and shootings in Paris which killed 130 people last November, which have raised tensions between communities and made people wary of public places.
The socialist government's minister for women's rights, Laurence Rossignol, said municipal bans on the burkini should not be seen in the context of terrorism but she supported the bans.
"The burkini is not some new line of swimwear, it is the beach version of the burqa and it has the same logic: hide women's bodies in order to better control them," Rossignol told French daily Le Parisien in an interview.
France, which has the largest Muslim minority in Europe, estimated at 5 million, in 2010 introduced a ban on full-face niqab and burqa veils in public.
Rossignol said the burkini had sparked tensions on French beaches because of its political dimension.
"It is not just the business of those women who wear it, because it is the symbol of a political project that is hostile to diversity and women's emancipation," she said.
On Saturday, a brawl broke out between Muslim families and a group of young Corsicans in Sisco after a tourist took pictures of women bathing in burkini. The mayor banned burkinis on Monday.
Apart from the Paris attacks, a Tunisian deliberately drove a truck into crowds in Nice on July 14, killing 85 people, and a Roman Catholic priest priest had his throat cut in church by two French Muslims.
The string of attacks have made many people jumpy. On Sunday, 41 people were injured in a stampede in the Riviera town of Juan-les-Pins when holiday makers mistook the sound of firecrackers for gunfire.
Villeneuve-Loubet mayor Lionnel Luca, member of the hardline Droite Populaire faction of the conservative Les Republicains party, said the burkini was an ideological provocation.
"Since the Nice attack, the population is particularly sensitive," he told Le Parisien.
He said the burkini raised hygiene issues and could make rescue at sea more difficult.
The Collective against Islamophobia in France (CCIF) on Tuesday filed a complaint against the bans with the Conseil d'Etat, France's highest administrative court, which is expected to hand down a ruling in the coming days.
CCIF spokesman Marwan Muhammad said the bans restricted fundamental liberties and discriminated against Muslim women.
"This summer we are witnessing a hysterical political islamophobia that pits citizens against one another," he said.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Tuesday he hoped all political factions in Nepal would unite and promote stability,  after Nepal sent an envoy to Beijing to clear up questions over the future of bilateral agreements.
Nepal's Maoist Prime Minister Prachanda, 61, who led a decade-long insurgency that ended a feudal monarchy, replaced communist K.P. Oli this month amid uncertainty about a slew of deals made by Oli during a visit to Beijing in March.
Those deals included permission for Nepal to use Chinese railways, roads and ports to trade with third countries, and signalled a shift by the landlocked Himalayan nation away from its traditional reliance on overland trade with its southern neighbour, India.
Wang told the envoy, one of Prachanda's trusted lieutenants from the insurgency period, Krishna Bahadur Mahara, that China's friendship toward Nepal would not change even with the political shift.
"China expects that all political forces in Nepal will strengthen unity and jointly advance Nepal's peace, stability and development," Wang said.
He said China hoped "to carry out the consensus already reached by the two countries' leaders" and deepen cross-border transport, trade and energy cooperation, the foreign ministry said in a statement.
Mahara told Wang the foundation of bilateral ties was firm and would not change because of the new government, according to the Chinese statement.
Prachanda led a Nepali uprising in the name of the Chinese revolutionary leader Mao Zedong, but it did not enjoy the overt backing of Beijing. The conflict ended in 2006 when the rebels laid down their arms under a peace deal.
Instability in the young republic - Prachanda is the eighth prime minister in as many years - has also raised doubts over a planned visit by President Xi Jinping in October, which would be the first by a Chinese president in two decades.
Mahara had said he was carrying an invitation from President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to the Chinese leader to come as planned.
Nepali officials have said Prachanda would send another deputy, Bimelandra Nidhi, as an emissary to India this week to give reassurances that closer ties with China would not come at a cost to India. China and India compete for influence in Nepal.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Bahrain is targeting its Shi'ite Muslim community through arrests and prosecutions of clerics, activists and entertainers, a group of United Nations-appointed independent experts said on Tuesday.
In a statement, the experts urged Bahraini authorities to halt what they said were "arbitrary arrests" based on religion and release those detained for free speech and assembly.
There have been regular clashes between members Bahrain's Shi'ites and security forces since the island's Sunni rulers quashed a Shi'ite-led pro-democracy uprising in 2011 with military help from Saudi Arabia amongst others.
A staunch U.S. ally and home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet, the kingdom blames Shi'ite neighbour Iran for fomenting violence on its turf, an accusation Tehran denies.
In recent months, the authorities have drawn international rebuke for waging their harshest crackdown in years on Shi'ite opposition groups and rights activists.
"The intensified wave of arrests, detentions, summons, interrogations and criminal charges brought against numerous Shi'ite religious clerics and singers, human rights defenders and peaceful dissidents is having a chilling effect on fundamental human rights," the U.N. experts said.
They cited measures including the dissolution of the main opposition al-Wefaq group, the shutting of faith-based organisations and a preaching ban for some Shi'ite holy men.
"A wide range of charges are brought against the Shi'ites including 'illegal gathering', 'inciting hatred against the regime', 'money laundering' and 'acts of terrorism' in relation to their peaceful gatherings and religious congregations and peaceful expression of their beliefs, views and dissenting opinions," the experts said.
They called these "groundless accusations used to hide a deliberate targeting of Shias in the country".
DUBAI (Reuters) - The head of Iran's National Security Council said on Tuesday that Tehran and Moscow are sharing facilities to fight against terrorism, after Russia confirmed that its long-range bombers based in Iran had struck targets inside Syria.
"Iranian-Russian cooperation in the fight against terrorism in Syria is a strategic one and we share our potential and facilities in this field," Ali Shamkhani was quoted as saying by state news agency IRNA.
Russia has deployed Tupolev-22 bombers at an air base near the Iranian city of Hamadan to carry out air strikes against militants in Syria.
BEIJING (Reuters) - A group of Chinese intellectuals sued on Tuesday over what they say is a leadership coup at a leading liberal magazine, as a former editor lost an appeal against a ruling ordering him to apologise for doubting details in a tale of wartime heroism.
Since taking office more than three years ago, President Xi Jinping has cracked down on dissent, reining in the media and detaining dozens of rights activists. The government denies any abuse of human rights or freedom of expression, saying it is going after lawbreakers.
Founded in 1991, the magazine, Yanhuang Chunqiu, also called China Through the Ages, is known for challenging party views on sensitive issues, such as political reform.
But last month it halted publication after a government body forced a sudden reshuffle of its leadership team, which one of the magazine's lawyers has blamed on an effort to stifle voices that disagree with the ruling Communist Party.
It has been seen as a forum for more reform-minded officials and claimed a circulation of about 200,000.
Wang Yanjun, one of the magazine's former editors, said seven of them were suing the two new editors, Hao Qingjun and Jia Leilei, demanding they return the magazine to its former staff and saying its current operations were illegal.
"They hijacked our official website, cracked the password, and are publishing their own illegal views there," Wang said.
Hao declined to comment, while Reuters was not immediately able to locate a contact for Jia.
The court did not answer calls seeking comment. The Chinese National Academy of Arts, which is technically in charge of the magazine, also did not answer calls.
Separately, Hong Zhenkuai, a former editor at the magazine, lost an appeal against a June court case in which he was told to publicly apologise for two articles written in 2013 questioning the details of a well-known story about Communist soldiers fighting the Japanese in World War Two.
Hong told Reuters he would not apologise and that he had defamed nobody.
"My articles exposed the truth about a period of history," he said. "I did nothing illegal."
Calls to the Beijing court which heard the appeal went unanswered. The office of the lawyer who represented the plaintiffs, Zhao Xiaolu, said Zhao was not accepting media interviews.
Hong had been sued by relatives of the surviving soldiers.
In the story, the five soldiers jumped off a cliff so the Japanese could not take them alive, though two of them lived.
Hong had expressed doubt about how many Japanese the Chinese soldiers killed, how the two survived and where the cliff is.
Party history is a sensitive subject in China as so much of the party's legitimacy rests on its position as claiming great historical achievements, such as leading China to victory over Japan during World War Two.
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Eight armed men abducted "six or seven" suspected members of the Sinaloa drug cartel from a restaurant in the heart of Mexico's Pacific tourist resort of Puerto Vallarta early on Monday morning, the state attorney general said.
Local authorities say the victims were seized around 1 a.m. CDT (0600 GMT) on Monday from a restaurant in the resort town.
Interviewed on local television, Jalisco Attorney General Eduardo Almaguer said the men who were abducted were believed to be members of the Sinaloa cartel, one of Mexico's most feared drug smuggling gangs, which was led by Joaquin "Chapo" Guzman until his capture in January.
Almaguer said the suspected gang members were accompanied by nine women who were left behind, adding that the kidnappers had yet to make any contact with authorities.
Puerto Vallarta, in the state of Jalisco, is one of Mexico's top vacation destinations, luring all-inclusive tourists and high-end sunseekers to its beaches.
Jalisco, which lies south along the Pacific coast from Sinaloa, is also home to the Jalisco New Generation cartel, which has become one of the country's most powerful drug gangs in recent years.
In a statement, the prosecutor's office said it was investigating the incident, while Almaguer said he was trying to fully identify the men who were abducted.
MILWAUKEE (Reuters) - Tension eased on Monday night in Milwaukee, as teenagers respected a late night curfew to deter a third night of the rioting that hit the U.S. Midwestern city following the police shooting of an armed black man.
Milwaukee is the latest American city to have been gripped by a trend of violence over the past two years in response to fatal police confrontations with black men.
However, by 10 p.m. (0300 GMT), the situation in the city appeared calm, city and police officials told reporters, although there had been several arrests earlier in the evening.
"We think we are in, comparatively speaking, a positive place," Milwaukee Police Chief Ed Flynn said, within an hour of the start of the curfew. The situation could change rapidly, however, Flynn warned.
Late on Monday afternoon, dozens of police, some in riot gear, cordoned off Sherman Park, the center of the neighborhood where the weekend shooting and subsequent disturbances took place. Nearby, about 100 people held a picnic in a grassy area.
As the sun set, pedestrians thinned out ahead of the 10 p.m. (0300 GMT Tuesday) curfew in the area, where police vehicles were seen parked in alleys and along major thoroughfares.
"There is a curfew that will be more strictly enforced tonight for teenagers," Mayor Tom Barrett told a news conference. "So parents, after 10 o'clock, your teenagers better be home or in a place where they're off the streets."
Barrett renewed his call for state officials to release a video of Saturday night's shooting in hopes it would convince angry protesters that deadly force against Sylville K. Smith, 23, was justified.
Milwaukee, famed for its breweries, is also one of the most segregated cities in America, with a black population plagued by high levels of unemployment absent in the mostly white suburbs.
Such inequality has afflicted many U.S. cities over the past three decades, sometimes stoking unrest when police use deadly force.
Police say Smith was stopped on Saturday afternoon for behaving suspiciously and he then fled on foot between two homes. Smith was carrying a stolen handgun he refused to drop before he was killed, police said.
The shooting led to a first night of violence in which gunshots were fired, six businesses were torched and 17 people were arrested. Police reported four officers were injured and police cars were damaged before calm was restored.
On Sunday night, when police in riot gear faced off with protesters throwing bottles and bricks, four officers were hurt  and one person suffered a gunshot wound, police said. Three police squad cars were damaged and 14 people were arrested, authorities said.
Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker activated the National Guard on Sunday in case more trouble flared, but despite the violence, police said the guardsmen were not called in.
The weekend shooting in Milwaukee was distinct in that the person killed was armed, according to the police account. The officer who fired the deadly shot was also black.
The mayor wants Wisconsin state officials to make the video public so as to corroborate the police account. State law that requires police shootings to be investigated by an independent state agency gives the state control over such evidence.
"I want the video released. ... I'm going to urge that it be released as quickly as possible," said Barrett, who has yet to see it.
Video from the officer's body camera showed Smith had turned toward the officer with a gun in his hand, Flynn said on Sunday.
The video appeared to show the officer acting within the law, Flynn said, but because the audio was delayed, it was unclear when the officer fired his weapon.
Police had stopped Smith's car, leading to the chase on foot.
Police said the car was stopped because Smith was acting suspiciously, raising skepticism within largely African-American neighborhoods where people report racial discrimination from police. Smith also had a lengthy arrest record, officials said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. officials said on Monday 15 inmates from the Guantanamo prison were transferred to the United Arab Emirates, the single largest transfer of Guantanamo detainees during President Barack Obama's administration.
The transfer of the 12 Yemeni and three Afghan citizens brings the total number of detainees down to 61 at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Most have been held without charge or trial for more than a decade, drawing international condemnation.
Obama, who had hoped to close the prison during his first year in office, rolled out his plan in February aimed at shutting the facility. But he faces opposition from many Republican lawmakers as well as some fellow Democrats.
"In its race to close Gitmo, the Obama administration is doubling down on policies that put American lives at risk," Republican Representative Ed Royce, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a statement.
"Once again, hardened terrorists are being released to foreign countries where they will be a threat," he said.
While Obama's plan for shuttering the facility calls for bringing the several dozen remaining prisoners to maximum-security prisons in the United States, U.S. law bars such transfers to the mainland. Obama, though, has not ruled out doing so by executive action.
"I think we are at an extremely dangerous point where there is a significant possibility this is going to remain open as a permanent offshore prison to hold people, practically until they die," said Naureen Shah, Amnesty International's U.S. director for security and human rights.
Shah said keeping Guantanamo open gave cover to foreign governments to ignore human rights.
"It weakens the U.S. government's hand in arguing against torture and indefinite detention," she said.
One of the detainees who was transferred is an Afghan national, identified as Obaidullah, who has spent more than 13 years at Guantanamo. He had been accused of storing mines to be used against American forces in Afghanistan.
"The continued operation of the detention facility weakens our national security by draining resources, damaging our relationships with key allies and partners, and emboldening violent extremists," Lee Wolosky, the State Department's special envoy for closing the Guantanamo detention center, said.
"The support of our friends and allies - like the UAE -  is critical to our achieving this shared goal," Wolosky said.
A State Department official speaking on condition of anonymity said the UAE had resettled five detainees transferred in November 2015.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia is actively involved in resolving territorial disputes in the South China Sea, President Joko Widodo said in a prepared state address on Tuesday.
An arbitration court in the Hague last month ruled that China had no historic title over the busy waterway and had breached the Philippines' sovereign rights there. The decision infuriated Beijing, which dismissed the court's authority.
"Indonesia continues to be actively involved in conflict resolution in the South China Sea through peaceful negotiations after," Widodo said, referring directly to the ruling.
"We continue to push for peaceful resolutions to international conflicts," he said in a speech marking Indonesia's independence day, which falls on Wednesday.
Widodo also called for police and judicial reform to boost legal certainty in Southeast Asia's biggest economy.
(Reuters) - Lawyers made opening speeches on Monday in the Los Angeles trial of a German national dubbed the "Hollywood Arsonist" and charged with setting more than 40 fires across the city more than three years ago.
The fires, which caused damage estimated at $3 million (2.3 million pounds), were mostly started in parked cars, with some spreading to carports and homes, leaving Los Angeles residents on edge.
"I will prove to you beyond a reasonable doubt that Harry Burkhart, who planned and executed this campaign of fire and fear, is guilty," Sean Carney, the prosecutor and a Los Angeles deputy district attorney, told the jury.
"I will prove that he set these 51 fires and he is guilty of the 47 fires that he's been charged with."
Harry Burkhart, 29, who pleaded not guilty and not guilty by reason of insanity, sat quietly during the prosecution's opening speech, but later whispered occasionally to his attorney, deputy public defender Steve Schoenfield.
Carney told the 12-member jury the defendant became enraged during the 2011 deportation hearing of his Russian-born mother, Dorothee Burkhart, who was ordered to be extradited to Germany to face criminal charges.
    Investigators say that rage fuelled Burkhart's three-night arson spree that ended with his arrest in January 2012.
    Burkhart's attorney warned the jury against relying on circumstantial evidence to link his client to many of the fires, however.
    Although evidence tied Burkhart to six or seven fires, the jury would be asked to convict for about 40 more on the basis of similar methods and the location and timing of the incidents, Schoenfield said.
"As you take in the evidence, I ask you to hold Mr. Carney to his burden of proof on all of the charges," he added, urging the jury to keep an "open mind" during the trial.
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The number of children killed in Yemen's conflict has risen sharply in the last week, a U.N. official said on Monday as aid agencies condemned a weekend airstrike on a school which killed 10 children and injured 28.
A Saudi-led coalition, which began a military campaign in March last year against Iranian-allied Houthi rebels that drove the internationally recognised government into exile, said the strike in Saada province had targeted a Houthi training facility.
But UNICEF, which visited the site in Haydan after the strike as well as the hospital treating the injured children, dismissed suggestions the victims were Houthi recruits.
"The children who were killed were between the ages of six and 14, and the majority were between six and eight," said Julien Harneis, UNICEF's Yemen representative.
"The Houthis do not recruit children so young into their militia. We spoke with the parents, we checked the ages and we visited the site, and there is nothing to indicate it was anything other than a Koranic school."
Harneis welcomed calls by the U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Monday for a swift investigation into the attack. [L8N1AW1BD]
"The main thing is there should be change in the way the conflict is conducted. How did this happen? Why did it happen? What needs to change so that more children will not be killed?"
The war has killed more than 6,500 people, displaced more than 2.5 million and created a humanitarian catastrophe in one of the world's poorest countries.
Aid agencies say well over 2,000 children have been killed or wounded since the start of the war.
A recent U.N. report said the coalition was responsible for 60 percent of child deaths and injuries last year.
Harneis said the number of children killed and injured by airstrikes, street fighting and landmines had increased sharply during "a massive spike in violence" across Yemen in the 10 days since peace talks ended in Kuwait without a breakthrough.
He said the humanitarian situation was deteriorating as violence escalated and the country became increasingly cut off.
"You have got this real pressure cooker with a collapsing economy and a collapsing health system," Harneis said.
"All across the board, it's just getting worse. I have never seen anything so bad. It's just appalling."
He said the central bank was running out of foreign exchange and Yemeni rials were difficult to obtain, jeopardizing aid operations.
Harneis said the impact of the war on healthcare would mean an additional 10,000 children under five would die this year from preventable causes such as diarrhoea and measles.
He also warned that the immediate crisis would have grave long term implications.
"If the health system and education systems collapse then for years after the war ends, the country will be vulnerable to things like pandemics, and you will have lower education rates which is going to hamper the country for years, if not decades."
Grant Pritchard, advocacy director at Save the Children's Yemen office, said the attack on the school was "inexcusable".
He said well over 100 schools and hospitals had been damaged and destroyed with nearly half the attacks blamed on coalition strikes.
"It's difficult to understand how they could mistake a military training camp (for) a school," he added.
ABUJA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Parents of Nigerian schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram more than two years ago said on Monday they felt wounded after watching a video posted by the Islamist militants that showed dozens of the girls.
In the video published by the militants on social media on Sunday, a masked man stands behind a group of the girls, and says some of them have been killed in air strikes.
Many of the girls' parents in the northeastern town of Chibok said they tried to watch the video straight away, but were unable to see it due to the poor internet connection.
Three of the parents on Monday drove two hours to the nearby town of Mubi, where they used a computer in a church to watch the video - hoping to see their daughters alive.
"I couldn't identify my daughter among the girls," Yana Galang, the women's leader of the Association of Parents of the Abducted Girls from Chibok, said after watching the video.
"It wounded my heart," Galang told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone, describing how she broke down in tears and found herself unable to watch the whole video.
Boko Haram kidnapped 219 girls from their school in Chibok, in April 2014, as part of a seven-year-old insurgency to set up an Islamic state in the north that has killed some 15,000 people and displaced more than two million.
Some girls escaped in the melee but parents of those still missing accused former President Goodluck Jonathan, Nigeria's then leader, of not doing enough to find their daughters, whose disappearance sparked a global campaign #bringbackourgirls.
In the video, one veiled girl could be seen holding a baby, while unidentified bodies could be seen on the ground.
"Some of the girls, about 40 of them with God's permission have been married, some of them have died as a result of bombing by the infidels," said the masked man in the video.
The two other parents, who travelled with Galang to Mubi, were able to identify their daughters in the video.
"This thing has become a wound for us," said Zannah Lawan.
"We are praying ... that we can one day see our daughters. If not, there is nothing you can say now," Lawan added.
One of the Chibok girls, Amina Ali, was rescued from Boko Haram in May by soldiers and a civilian vigilante group.
She told her mother earlier this month that the girls were starved and resorted to eating raw beans and maize, and that some had died in captivity, suffered broken legs or gone deaf after being too close to explosions.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The sleek concrete and glass rooftop Bar da Lage is nestled in a sea of illegally built red brick houses in one of Rio De Janeiro's notoriously tough hillside favelas.
Once considered a no-go area because of gang violence, the bar, in the city's posher south, offers postcard perfect views of Ipanema beach and lush green mountains.
At night, middle class Brazilians and foreigners rub shoulders sipping cocktails as the Olympic Games unfold around them.
Bar Da Laje is a vivid example of what is becoming known as 'favela chic', a phenomenon that has seen some parts of the enormous informal settlements once synonymous with poverty and violence become fashionable, home to edgy art galleries and up-market cafes.
And while many residents living in and around Vidigal welcome gentrification that has seen an influx of new businesses serving more affluent clients, other long-time residents fear they will be priced out of their homes.
"These changes aren't good for us," Barbara Nascimento, a Vidigal-born activist and literature professor told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"I have many friends who have had to leave because they couldn't afford the rent anymore."
The tension sparked by wealthy outsiders gentrifying working class neighbourhoods is not unique to Rio de Janeiro. It's a well documented phenomenon, from London's East End to Sydney's inner west and San Francisco's mission district.
However it is even more complex in the vast, informal settlements of growing cities in developing nations like Brazil due to the lack of formal property title deeds, campaigners say.
On one hand, many residents want formal title deeds, both to allow them to use their property as collateral for bank loans and to provide protection in case of land disputes.
On the other hand, the lack of formal title plays a key role in the supply and demand cycle, ensuring that these neighbourhoods remain as a stock of affordable housing.
Additionally, legal titles can pave the way for access to services such as electricity and water, improving quality of life.
But they also formalise residents' relationship with the state authorities and the taxation system - a status not always welcomed by poorer residents.
Ultimately, property experts say, developers are more likely to buy up land in slum areas if titles are available, pushing prices up and locals out.
"The interest of real-estate developers in the favela areas is huge," Edison Ferrari, director of investment for the multinational property brokerage firm CBRE, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Rio's unique geography, where a series of tunnels through mountains separate different parts of the city, has made Vidigal especially appealing to foreigners and investors.
"In the south zone (where Vidigal is located) it is almost impossible to find pieces of land for new developments."
However while land around Vidigal is clearly seen as a potentially lucrative investment, laws governing favelas and the "big problem in terms of titles" has stopped institutional investors from buying properties there, Ferrari said.
In the absence of large property firms developing high-end apartment blocks or other major construction in the area due to a lack of clear property deeds, niche investors have seen big opportunities.
And it is here that locals say they are feeling the effects.
Nascimento estimates that rents in Vidigal have tripled since 2007, though formal statistics on rent increases or the number of people moving into the neighbourhood do not exist.
"The prices are abusive; they've gone up so much," said Jose Ferreira, a coffee vendor who has lived in Vidigal for more than 40 years.
Ferreira said rent for his one-bedroom apartment has doubled to 800 reais ($255) since 2011, when police "pacified" the community as part of a drive to cut crime ahead of the Olympics.
"Foreigners started coming in and the prices started going up," Ferreira told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, a sentiment that was echoed by other residents.
It's unclear exactly how many foreigners live in Vidigal today, but some estimate there are more than 10,000 residents - and locals observe many more outsiders are moving in.
"Sometimes it feels like there are more foreigners than locals," Aline Gomes, a student shopping in a local news agent, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Local residents don't have the money to party at the new bars or eat in pop-up sushi restaurants, leaving some feeling like outsiders in their own neighbourhood, Nascimento added.
"People who are coming in want the favela experience without the favelados (locals)."
Marcos Brandao, the owner of Bar da Laje, doesn't see it that way. His business near the top of the favela is designed for everyone, he said.
He wants the bar to appeal to a mixed clientele, not only local drinkers, in order to make it a "destination" in Rio.
"People think that if you stay in the favela you have to have low prices - our prices are medium," Brandao told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
About 80 percent of the bar staff are locals, he said and they're proud to be working in an up market establishment so close to home.
A lawyer by training, Brandao has experienced the problem of insecure land rights first-hand, along with complaints over high prices from some locals. But he still thinks Vidigal is a good place to do business.
"Here on the mountain poor people built houses that weren't recognised - it was a squat," Brandao told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Getting approval from the fire department to build his bar and other formal paperwork wasn't easy given the community's untitled status, he said.
The complexities of hazy ownership are what has kept the larger investors away.
But individuals who want to experiment with something new, off "the beaten track" were still willing to give it a go despite the lack of titles, Brandao said. "Vidigal has a special kind of energy."
Pointing to construction on the hillside, he said houses were being built for Brazilians and foreigners coming to the area.
Brandao said celebrities seeking the "favela experience" recently included the U.S. singer Queen Latifah and film director Spike Lee, as waiters in T-shirts marked "Vidigal" served drinks and customers posed for selfies.
"The adventure starts with the trip up the hill - take the motorcycles," one foreign patron wrote in a review of the bar, underlying what draws travellers to the favela.
"Locals pay $5, gringos will pay more than $10. Negotiate! This place has one of the best views in all of Rio."
KAFFRINE, Senegal (Thomson Reuters Foundation) -  Little is left in the house where Fati Camara lived with her four children, after it was hit by heavy rains last month.
“This is the fourth time we’ve faced floods since we moved here 10 years ago,” said Camara, drying her tears with a pink and white shawl.
Her fridge, which brought her a daily income selling ice cream, was washed away after 175 mm (6.89 inches) of rain fell in Kaffrine in central Senegal on July 24 – a record for the beginning of the rainy season.
“Usually we can drain the water and return two or three days later, but this time we were unable to save anything,” Camara told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Water has devastated the Diamaguene district, leaving entire streets flooded and houses ripped open.
Salimata Ndao’s life has also changed radically.
“We have a house with 10 rooms – three of which are in ruins, with the rest mostly flooded,” she said in a resigned tone, lamenting the loss of 80 kg (176 lb) of millet and 20 kg of groundnut seeds.
Ndao, her husband and their nine children found refuge in Kaffrine School 6, along with around 10 other families.
According to Kaffrine Mayor Abdoulaye Wilane, at least 1,500 households were struck by the floods in what he described as an “extreme and unprecedented phenomenon”.
Nestled in a river basin, the city regularly falls prey to floods that until now mostly hit the poorer districts of Diamageune and Kaffrine 2. These, Wilane explained, are located in “flood-prone areas, without sewage or drainage systems”.
In Kouthia Thiambene, 30 km (18.6 miles) from Kaffrine, 200 mm of rain fell on July 24. Village chief Moth Gouné Samb cannot remember having experienced anything so severe, despite his advanced age.
“We were completely powerless – so much so that all we could do was abandon our homes and gather on the village square,” he said.
In a place where agriculture is the main source of income, farmers saw their fields engulfed by sand.
“The fields were inundated, producing a kind of muddy paste that stopped seeds germinating - that's weeks of work for nothing,” Alioune N'Diaye said calmly, walking through his field where huge cracks testify to the latest floods.
Nearly 100 clay huts were destroyed and tonnes of millet and other crops, as well as seeds, were swept away by flood waters.
The extreme weather that battered Kaffrine and its surroundings took everyone by surprise, including the Met Office, said locals.
A few of those affected, including Ndao, received a weather forecast through the regional agricultural service. But they said the information lacked detail, giving no indication of the quantity or duration of the rainfall.
Diabel N’Diaye, an agricultural meteorologist at the National Agency of Civil Aviation and Meteorology, admitted an alarm was not issued “because we lack adequate equipment to predict the quantity of rainfall”.
Kaffrine, which does not have a weather station, gets alerts via text messages sent to the regional agricultural service, which acts as a relay to the population, starting with farmers, N’Diaye explained.
“We don’t yet have a system that allows us to alert the whole population, and that is perhaps the first thing we should try to address,” he said.
Idy Niang, who heads a local branch of the environment ministry, said it was vital to equip meteorological services better, so they have adequate and reliable rainfall information.
Meanwhile, in Kaffrine and surrounding areas, grassroots organizations are devising their own solutions to build resilience to climate extremes.
Papa Souleymane Coulibaly, programme assistant at development agency IED Afrique, said it has selected 22 projects as part of the Building Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Extremes and Disasters (BRACED) program, backed by the British government.
The initiative, which focuses on directing funds for climate action to the local level, chooses activities that help communities adapt to climate change. They receive training to build skills and find resources to put their ideas into practice.
Fily Traoré leads a group of 100 women in Femmes Forestières (Forest Women), a local organisation benefiting from BRACED funding, who are working to make reforestation a priority.
“Deforestation has led to the disappearance of several kinds of fruit trees, which our project aims to restore,” she said. Deforestation caused by bushfires exacerbates the impact of flooding, she added.
In Keur Mbouki village, climate resilience is also about reforestation. According to Seynabou N’Diaye, the main economic activity of salt harvesting harms the environment by contaminating the soil.
N’Diaye, who runs a women’s organisation, aims to remedy this by planting salt-tolerant plants in Kaffrine, also with BRACED support.
“While the government can help us against floods, for example in issuing alerts, it’s also important that we are better prepared at our own level,” she explained.
(Reuters) - A New York man, Oscar Morel, of Brooklyn, was charged on Monday with two counts of second-degree murder in the shooting deaths of a Muslim imam and his assistant, a police spokesman said.
Morel, 35, was also charged with two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, the spokesman added.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey expects Syrian Kurdish fighters to withdraw east of the Euphrates river after they and other U.S.-backed forces seized control of the Syrian town of Manbij from Islamic State last week, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday.
The Syria Democratic Forces (SDF), a U.S.-backed alliance of Kurdish and Arab fighters, said on Friday they had seized full control of Manbij near the Turkish border in a significant strategic blow to Islamic State.
Turkey views the Kurdish YPG militia as a hostile force, an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militant group that has fought a three-decade insurgency in Turkey's southeast, and is considered a terrorist group by the United States and European Union as well as by Ankara.
"Of course we have an expectation," Cavusoglu told reporters in Ankara. "The U.S. promised that the (Syrian Kurdish) forces within the coalition and democratic forces there would move east of the Euphrates again following the Manbij operation."
U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said in a statement on Monday that liberation of Manbij was an important step in the campaign against the Islamic State, and he thanked the Turkish government for its support.
"For the people of Manbij city, now begins the difficult job of rebuilding their homes and communities, and I call on all of our coalition partners to help them with that task," Carter said.
"For its part, the military coalition will continue to work with capable and motivated local forces to defeat ISIL and ensure it remains defeated," he said, using an acronym for the Islamic State militant group. Carter did not address what would happen with the Syrian Kurdish fighters.
Pentagon spokesman Captain Jeff Davis said the United States has commitments from the Kurdish leadership that the local Arabs liberating their lands will be the ones to rebuild the area.
The operation, in which U.S. special forces played a significant role, marks the most ambitious advance by a group allied to Washington in Syria since the United States launched its military campaign against Islamic State two years ago.
U.S. officials have said that completion of the Manbij operation would create the conditions to move on the militant group's de facto capital of Raqqa.
(Reuters) - U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said on Monday that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's remark that President Barack Obama founded Islamic State had increased threats to the physical safety of U.S. troops in Iraq.
"Trump is already making our country less safe," Biden told a crowd at a joint Scranton, Pennsylvania, appearance with Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Libya's U.N.-backed government said on Monday it was appointing a five-member caretaker committee to run the country's $67 billion (52.03 billion pounds) sovereign wealth fund.
The Government of National Accord (GNA) said in a statement that the committee should not dispose of Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) assets and should protect the fund's rights and follow all legal cases it is involved in.
The committee will be led by Ali Mahmoud Hassan Mohamed, the statement said. It did not list either of two competing chairmen of the fund among the committee's members, and did not say how long the caretaker committee would serve for. Details about Mohamed were not immediately available.
The GNA is the result of a U.N.-mediated deal signed in December. It arrived in Tripoli in March, seeking to replace two competing governments, one in the capital and one in eastern Libya.
It has  been trying to gradually impose its authority on the west of the country with the acquiescence of powerful armed groups, but it has faced stiff resistance from factions that control the east.
It is also seeking to reunify key institutions that were split by the rival governments. These include the National Oil Corporation, the central bank and the LIA.
The announcement of the caretaker committee came days after one of the fund's competing chairmen, Hassan Bouhadi, tendered his resignation.
Bouhadi was appointed by authorities who set up a parliament and government in eastern Libya in 2014, after opponents took control of Tripoli and its institutions.
The nomination put him at odds with AbdulMagid Breish, who was appointed chairman in June 2013, before the split. He stepped aside a year later, then claimed to have been reinstated following a decision by the Libyan Court of Appeal.
The LIA is also involved in two law suits against investment banks Goldman Sachs and Societe Generale, seeking to get back over $3 billion lost in trades carried out under the Gaddafi regime.
Over a third of the fund's assets remain frozen under sanctions imposed by the U.N. Security Council in 2011 to prevent money being spirited out of the country.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - An unidentified man opened fire in the centre of the Belgian city of Ghent on Monday before being shot by police, local media reported.
Ghent public prosecutors confirmed there had been a shooting in the city centre at around 6:30 p.m. (1630 GMT), but declined to say how many people were involved, whether the gunman was being held or whether the incident was related to terrorism.
The man was shot three times in the leg and abdomen, according to broadcaster VTM. Belgium has been on a high security alert since Islamist suicide bombers killed 32 people at Brussels airport and a metro station in March.
LIMA (Reuters) - A 5.3 magnitude shallow earthquake killed at least four people, including a U.S. tourist, and injured dozens when it rocked a copper-producing region popular with trekkers late on Sunday, authorities said.
The quake struck just 8 kilometers (5 miles) deep in the Caylloma province of the Andean region Arequipa and at least five aftershocks shook the region anew on Monday, the Geophysical Institute of Peru said. The USGS reported the earthquake as having a 5.4 magnitude.
Hundreds of houses, many made of adobe, collapsed as the tremor downed electrical distribution and phone lines in several towns, the National Civil Defense Institute (Indeci) said. Irrigation canals, health clinics, schools and highways were also damaged.
A 66-year-old U.S. man staying at a hotel in the town of Yanque was among the four confirmed casualties, according to Indeci.
The Caylloma province is home to Peru's Colca Canyon, one of the deepest in the world and a draw for trekkers.
Copper mines in Arequipa operated by Southern Copper Corp and Freeport McMoRan Inc were unaffected by the quake, representatives of both companies said.
Vice President Martin Vizcarra traveled to Caylloma to oversee the distribution of humanitarian aid as the government of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski prepared to declare an emergency in the region, state news agency Andina reported.
Local authorities were setting up tents in town squares and soup kitchens to help families left homeless, Indeci said.
The quake struck a day before the ninth anniversary of a 2007 earthquake in Peru that killed hundreds in the region of Ica.
Earthquakes are common in Peru, but many homes are built with precarious materials that cannot withstand them.
PRAGUE (Reuters) - A Russian performance artist on Monday gave his Vaclav Havel Prize to a businessman who promised to fund a Russian group whose members have been convicted of killing policemen.
Peter Pavlensky was awarded the Havel Prize for Creative Dissent by the New York-based Human Rights Foundation in May, for a performance in which he set fire to the main entrance to the headquarters of Russia's FSB security service, successor to the Soviet-era KGB.
The prize, named after the late president of the Czech Republic, "celebrates those who, with bravery and ingenuity, unmask the lie of dictatorship by living in truth," according to the foundation's website.
But the foundation later rescinded the prize and refused to pay out the accompanying $42,000, when the artist pledged to donate the money to attorneys of the group called Primorsky Partisans.
The group says it fights against police corruption and lawlessness. But some of its members have been convicted of killing several policemen, who they said were Russia's real criminals.
Pavlensky said on Sunday he considered the Partizans worthy of the prize because they were opposing oppressive rule in Russia.
"I can give the award to people who I think deserve it, those who are struggling with police terror," he told Reuters.
Radio Free Europe reported last month that a Vladivostok court acquitted five members of the Partisans who have been in jail since 2010, accused of killing police officers. But three of the five remain in jail for other crimes, including the murder of two other police officers.
Pavlensky's earlier performances include sewing his lips together to protest against the jailing of anti-Kremlin punk band Pussy Riot in 2012. He also nailed his scrotum to Red Square in 2013, a gesture he described as a metaphor for the political apathy of Russian society.
Yevgeni Chichvarkin, a Russian millionaire currently living in a self-imposed exile in London, pledged to donate $42,000 for legal aid for the Partisans after Pavlensky handed him the prize, a statue of a woman holding a torch, at a brief ceremony on Prague's Wenceslas Square on Monday.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - A Brazilian judge on Monday ordered the arrest of four executives at international sports hospitality company THG Sports accused of fraudulent ticket sales at the Olympics, widening an investigation into ticket overcharging at the Games.
THG rejected the accusations against the company and its director Kevin Mallon, saying that more than 1,000 tickets seized by police were being held legally on behalf of authorized Irish reseller Pro 10 and criticizing local Olympic organizers.
The police did not name the four executives but said they were directly involved in a scheme to overcharge for tickets.
A spokesman for the police, however, said the four men could not be detained because they were not in Brazil.
Last week police detained Mallon and a translator employed by the company, alleging that they could have made 10 million reais ($3 million) from buying tickets and reselling them at a higher price.
THG and Pro 10 said in separate statements that Mallon was holding authorized tickets for collection by European clients in Rio and both accused Rio 2016 organizers of spreading misinformation.
"It appears that (organizers) and the local authorities have an agenda to impede the legitimate activities of THG in order to support the activities of their locally approved hospitality provider," said THG.
Pro 10 added that it had suffered commercial losses due to the seized tickets and declined to comment further on the issue.
In their statement last week, police noted that the chief executive of THG, James Sinton, was detained in Rio in 2014, accused of forming part of a World Cup "ticketing mafia."
THG has denied that Sinton was arrested during the World Cup and said he voluntarily made a statement to police.
THG Group is owned by Marcus Evans Group, which also controls English soccer club Ipswich Town.
In 2010, the Olympic Council of Ireland appointed THG as its official ticketing agent for the 2012 London Olympics and the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi.
($1 = 3.16 Brazilian reais)
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - The Israeli branch of the U.S. Republican party began a campaign on Monday to get American voters living in Israel to cast absentee ballots in favour of Donald Trump.
According to the Israeli chapter of the Republican party, around 300,000 Americans are eligible to vote in the November presidential elections. They live in Israel or in settlements in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem.
Marc Zell, the head of Republicans Overseas Israel branch,  said the campaign aimed to rekindle interest in U.S. politics among second- and third-generation citizens, many of whom have children who will be eligible to vote for the first time.
"We want to try to attract new voters who perhaps in the past had no special interest in voting in the U.S. elections," Zell told Reuters.
Tzvika Brot, who is heading the campaign, estimated that about three-quarters of American-Israelis would support the Republican party.
A Democratic party representative in Israel disputed that estimate, telling Israel Radio the majority of Israeli and U.S. Jewish voters had always preferred the Democrats.
A poll of Jewish Israelis conducted in May found 40 percent of respondents backed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and 31 percent supported Trump. The poll didn't specify whether those who responded were eligible to vote in the U.S. election.
The pro-Trump drive opened at a shopping mall in the central Israeli town of Modiin and will focus on areas with high concentrations of American-Israelis. Brot said he hoped the new votes being sought might help tip the balance in swing states.
Trump, who has accused the administration of President Barack Obama of lacklustre support for Israel, won his party's nomination for the presidency last month. He has rejected last year's nuclear deal with Iran and called for more investment in missile defense in Europe.
His views, including a vow to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and a proposal to impose a temporary ban on Muslims seeking to enter the country, have polarized the Republican party and caused widespread consternation.
Trump has also been criticized for his lack of foreign policy knowledge. German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said last month he would put at risk U.S. and world security with his "politics of fear and isolation".
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey (Reuters) - A car bomb killed six people including four police officers and a child outside a police station in southeastern Turkey on Monday, according to senior government officials who blamed the attack on Kurdish militants.
Twenty-one people, some of the police officers, were wounded in the bombing on a busy road between the city of Diyarbakir, the region's largest, and the district of Bismil, Deputy Prime Ministers Numan Kurtulmus said.
The blast blew out the police station's windows and left the building's twisted metal frame exposed through the concrete and its roof partially collapsed, footage on CNN Turk television showed. There was also a crater in the ground outside.
The dead included a civilian adult and a child of one of the police officers killed.
Turkey's southeast has suffered some of the most intense fighting in decades since a ceasefire between the Turkish state and the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) collapsed in July 2015.
Monday marks the anniversary of the PKK taking up arms against the state 32 years ago. The group, which wants autonomy for Turkey's Kurds, is designated a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the European Union and United States.
The PKK launched its insurgency with simultaneous attacks on security forces in the southeastern towns of Eruh and Semdinli on Aug. 15, 1984. More than 40,000 people - militants, security forces and civilians - have been killed since.
A broadcast ban was imposed on media coverage of Monday's bombing to try to stop information crucial to the investigation from being spread, an official at the governor's office said.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Singapore's parliament passed on Monday a bill spelling out what constitutes contempt of court, drawing criticism from rights groups, foreign diplomats and even the prime minister's sister, who say the new law will suppress freedom of speech.
The bill's definition of includes publishing material that interferes with ongoing proceedings or alleges bias on the part of judges. Offenders could be fined up to S$100,000 and jailed up to three years.
Critics say the bill's vaguely worded provisions and the harsh punishments proposed could further impede freedom of speech by leading to self-censorship.
The government says the bill will not change or expand current contempt of court practices and only aims to clarify them. Minister of Law K. Shanmugan said in parliament the law was aimed at protecting ordinary citizens.
"Do we really want to say to the ordinary man in the street that it is okay for his trial to be prejudiced, and it is okay for him to be unfairly treated, because it is incidental to someone else's right to comment," Shanmugan said.
Britain abolished a similar act called "Scandalising the Judiciary" in 2013 on the grounds it was "incompatible with freedom of speech", the British High Commision told Reuters last week, urging "Singapore and all countries which retain 'Scandalising the Judiciary' to abolish it."
Shanmugan said Britain's remarks were "quite improper."
The group Human Rights Watch said the bill was "overly broad" and penalties were "disproportionate".
Reporters Without Borders ranks Singapore 154th out of 180 countries in its World Press Freedom Index, behind Venezuela.
Lee Wei Ling, the daughter of Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew and the younger sister of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, described the government as "authoritarian."
On Facebook, she said the bill, which drew 72 votes in favour and nine against, "is an attempt to muzzle public discussion in any format." Her comments are unusual in a country where public criticism of the government is rare.
A public petition calling for a delay was submitted to parliament last week, the first in nine years. But it only drew 249 signatures.
"I am amazed that there has not been more vocal protest by more Singaporeans," Lee Wei Ling wrote on Facebook.
"Perhaps, Singaporeans have gotten used to an authoritarian government who until recently had always acted for their wellbeing, and so when another new action is taken, they do not even bother to think whether it may be against their welfare."
In her latest post, she sent a strong warning to the government.
"If it does not act for the welfare of Singaporeans, it can be voted out," she said.
The latest posts are the second round of major criticism by Lee Wei Ling. In April, she accused the prime minister of abusing his power and of forming a political dynasty. He rejected the criticism, saying "meritocracy" was a fundamental value of the Singaporean society.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraq's parliament approved the appointment of Jabar Ali al-Luaibi, former head of the main state oil firm, as oil minister in a cabinet overhaul on Monday that bolsters Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi's leadership.
Luaibi, who led the South Oil Company that produces most of the OPEC nation's crude, was one of six candidates Abadi nominated to fill vacant ministerial jobs.
Parliament approved five of them, state television said, rejecting only Abadi's pick for trade minister.
The vote eases a political crisis that broke out in February over anti-graft reforms sought by Abadi, and consolidates his position ahead of a battle planned for later this year to recapture Mosul, the largest city under Islamic State control.
U.S. envoy to the anti-Islamic State coalition Brett McGurk welcomed the approval of the five ministers, saying in a tweet that parliament's endorsement had overcome months of deadlock.
Demonstrations by supporters of powerful Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr in support of anti-graft reforms turned violent in May, after influential political groups blocked Abadi's plan.
The premier announced in February his intention to overhaul the cabinet by appointing independent technocrats as ministers to loosen a political patronage system that breeds graft.
Five of the 22 government ministers resigned following his announcement, followed by a sixth, the interior minister, after a massive bombing in central Baghdad in July. Abadi has yet to propose a new interior minister.
The whereabouts of a seventh, former trade minister Milas Mohammed Abdul Kareem, are unknown after authorities investigating alleged corruption issued an arrest warrant for him in October. Abdul Kareem has said the allegations were not based on solid evidence.
The other ministers refused to budge, with the support of influential political groups who thrive on the patronage system that allows them to amass wealth and influence.
Abadi could also suffer a setback should parliament withdraw confidence from Khaled al-Obeidi, the defence minister he wants to keep for the sake of maintaining momentum against Islamic State.
Parliament voted on Monday to reject explanations given by Obeidi after they grilled him earlier this month on allegations of corruption involving weapons contracts.
The vote doesn't mean the removal of Obeidi as another vote will be required in parliament to demand his resignation, according to Parliament Speaker Salim al-Jabouri.
During his Aug. 1 appearance before parliament, Obeidi responded by accusing Jabouri and five other MPs of corruption. An Iraqi court last week cleared Jabouri of those charges, citing lack of evidence
Thirteen years after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein, Iraq ranks 161st out of 168 nations in Transparency International's Corruption Index.
It still suffers electricity and water cuts, as well as shortages of schools and hospitals, while existing facilities and infrastructure suffer widespread neglect and mismanagement.
Corruption continued to eat away at state resources even after they sharply declined when oil prices collapsed two years ago, and despite the rising costs of the war on Islamic State.
Luaibi, the new oil minister, was on a previous list of ministerial candidates, blocked by parliament in April.
In his first comments after being sworn in, he said a solution to the Iraqi government's conflict over oil with the Kurdish self-ruled region was possible.
"There are solutions to the existing problems between the federal government and the Kurdistan Regional Government about the oil file," he told Baghdad-based Sumaria TV.
The conflict centres on the Kurdish region's crude oil exports which Baghdad wants to bring under its control.
OPEC's second-largest producer after Saudi Arabia, Iraq produces about 4.6 million barrels of crude oil per day, most of it from the southern region overseen by South Oil Company.
About 500,000 barrels per day are exported from the Kurdish region independently from Baghdad.
A solution will increase the nation’s crude exports by allowing Baghdad to carry some of its oil through a Kurdish pipeline to a Turkish port on the Mediterranean.
SOJEVE, Kosovo (Reuters) - On a busy road in Kosovo, brand new signs have been put up ahead of a visit by U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, showing the 35-km route in the southeast of the small Balkan nation that has been renamed after his late son Beau.
Naming streets after U.S. officials is becoming something of a tradition in Kosovo, whose population is mainly ethnic Albanian and which considers the United States its savior since 1999 NATO air strikes halted killings by Serbian troops.
Beau Biden worked in Kosovo after the 1998-99 war ended, helping train local prosecutors and judges for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). The former Delaware Attorney General died in 2015 of cancer. He was 46.
"If it hadn't been for the help of America, all Albanians would have been expelled, no one would be left here," 54-year-old Naser Sojeva said in the village of Sojeve, where Biden and his wife Jill will on Wednesday take part in a ceremony to dedicate the road to Beau.
"If I see Biden on Wednesday, I will tell him: 'Thank you for what you have done for us'," said Sojeva, who worked for 12 years as a civil contractor at a U.S. military base and rents out a shop to a local businessman selling souvenirs and U.S. flags. "We owe them so much."
There are avenues in the Kosovo capital Pristina named after former U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and many more celebrating U.S. politicians and army generals throughout the country of 1.8 million.
The United States keeps a few hundred troops in Kosovo from the thousands in the early years after the war. Many in the mainly Muslim, overwhelmingly secular country which declared independence from Serbia in 2008 see their presence as important to preserve peace.
"We still need U.S. support. We are where we are now thanks to the help of our friends and we need their help to go further," said 37-year-old government worker Bejt Bejta.
The welcome is likely to be more chilly in Belgrade, which Biden visits on Tuesday. Resentment is still high over the NATO bombings of the city in 1999, still visible in the city center with the shelled out former Defence Ministry buildings.
When Kosovo declared independence, the U.S. Embassy in Belgrade was set ablaze in a fire that killed one person.
Biden is expected to push both Serbia and Kosovo to do more to speed up EU-mediated talks to normalize their relations, a condition for Serbia in its European Union accession talks.
While an ultra-nationalist party is calling on social media for Serbs to take part in a protest in Belgrade against Biden's visit, there are no such qualms in Kosovo.
"The North Atlantic alliance led by the United States saved Kosovo from exodus, extinction and destruction," Kosovo Prime Minister Isa Mustafa wrote on Facebook on Saturday.
BERLIN/ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey could walk away from its promise to stem the flow of illegal migrants to Europe if the European Union fails to grant Turks visa-free travel to the bloc in October, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told a German newspaper.
His comments in Bild's Monday edition coincide with rising tensions between Ankara and the West that have been exacerbated by the failed coup attempt in Turkey on July 15. Turkey is incensed by what it sees as an insensitive response from Western allies to the failed putsch, in which 240 people were killed.
Long wary of Turkey's ambitions to join the EU, Europe has been alarmed by the crackdown since the coup, fearing President Tayyip Erdogan is using purges to quash dissent. The unease has relations between Turkey and Austria and Sweden. Ankara has summoned diplomats from both countries to protest what it says are false reports about changes to its child abuse laws.
Asked whether hundreds of thousands of refugees in Turkey would head to Europe if the EU did not grant Turks visa freedom from October, Cavusoglu told Bild: "I don't want to talk about the worst case scenario - talks with the EU are continuing but it's clear that we either apply all treaties at the same time or we put them all aside."
Visa-free access to the EU - the main reward for Ankara's collaboration in choking off an influx of migrants into Europe - has been subject to delays due to a dispute over Turkish anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the post-coup crackdown.
Brussels wants Turkey to soften the anti-terrorism law.Ankara says it cannot do so, given multiple security threats which include Islamic State militants in neighboring Syria and Kurdish militants in Turkey's mainly Kurdish southeast.
European Commissioner Guenther Oettinger has said he does not see the EU granting Turks visa-free travel this year due to Ankara's crackdown, which has included the round-up of more than 35,000 over alleged involvement in the coup.
Cavusoglu said the migration deal with the EU stipulated that all Turks would get visa freedom in October, adding: "It can't be that we implement everything that is good for the EU but that Turkey gets nothing in return."
A spokesman for the European Commission declined to comment on the interview directly but said the EU continued to work together with Turkey in all areas of cooperation.
Since the coup, more than 17,000 people have been placed under formal arrest, and tens of thousands more suspended from their jobs. Turkish authorities blame the failed putsch on U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and his followers. Gulen denies involvement and has condemned the coup attempt.
Cavusoglu told reporters that the Ankara government had summoned Sweden's ambassador to protest at comments from Foreign Minister Margot Wallstrom, a day after it hauled in Austria's charge d'affaires.
"(The) Turkish decision to allow sex with children under 15 must be reversed. Children need more protection, not less, against violence, sex abuse," Wallstrom wrote on her official Twitter account.
Cavusoglu dismissed her comments as "the result of racism and anti-Islam sentiment in Europe ... It is a scandal for a foreign minister to tweet something like this based on false rumors. It is worrying that this campaign of lies, which started in Austria, has spread to Sweden."
Her comments were in reference to a decision by Turkey's constitutional court last month to remove a provision in the penal code which identifies all sexual acts against children under the age of 15 as "sexual abuse".
A Turkish official said the claim that sexual abuse of children under 15 would now go unpunished was "completely baseless" and that new legislation would go into effect before the court ruling does to plug any legal loopholes.
On Sunday, Turkey summoned Austria's charge d'affaires to protest at a headline on an electronic news ticker at the airport in Vienna that allegedly read, "Turkey allows sex with children under the age of 15". Austrian officials played down the matter as one of freedom of the press.
A Turkish Foreign Ministry statement said the publication of such "slandering" news reports were encouraged by recent comments from Austrian politicians.
Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern has said the EU should end accession talks with Turkey, prompting Cavusoglu to refer to Austria as the "capital of radical racism". On Monday, Kern said that if the EU broke off accession talks with Turkey, this should not impact the migrant deal.
"If this deal depends on the illusion of accession talks, then we have a big problem," Kern told Austrian news agency APA.
PARIS (Reuters) - Firecrackers sparked panic in a Mediterranean seaside town late on Sunday, sending a stampede of people fleeing what they feared was a gun attack, injuring dozens, French media reported.
Just a month after an attack in nearby Nice in which 85 people were killed by a truck deliberately driven into a crowd, locals and tourists in Juan-les-Pins mistook the loud bangs for gunfire and 41 were injured in the rush to get away.
Photos and video posted online showed overturned tables outside cafes that would have been full of people enjoying an evening drink in the upscale beach resort. Le Parisien newspaper reported the firecrackers had been thrown from a passing car.
Eyewitness video showed people rushing and yelling and pictures showed the injured on stretchers, with ambulances at the scene, lights flashing.
The Alpes Maritimes fire brigade said on its Facebook page that 21 people had been treated and discharged from hospital and the remaining 20 would be released soon.
Around France, people are on edge, security is tight and several events have been cancelled following a string of attacks over the past two years.
The government has maintained a state of emergency put in place after 130 people were killed in Islamist attacks in Paris in November.
At the end of July, knife-wielding attackers interrupted a church service in northern France and slit the priest's throat in an attack claimed by the Islamic State group.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov told RIA news agency on Monday he would meet with representatives of the Syrian opposition in the Qatari city of Doha on Aug. 16.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday that Syrian rebels had used temporary ceasefires in and around Aleppo to regroup and rearm.
Lavrov, speaking at a news conference in the Russian city of Yekaterinburg with his German counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said he realised that brief daily ceasefires in place now to allow aid to enter and civilians to leave were not sufficient.
But he said it was difficult to make the ceasefires longer for the moment because of the risk of militants using them to regroup and rearm, something he said they had done in the past.
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said the hardships faced by people in Aleppo could not be alleviated by announcing three-hour ceasefires.
"It's supposed to sound like a concession but it's actually cynicism, because everybody knows that this amount of time is nowhere near sufficient to actually build up supplies for the desperate people there," he told a government news conference.
He said the killing in Aleppo had to stop and the city needed to receive food and medical items without hindrance.
Seibert said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russia, an ally of Assad against rebels in Syria's five-year-old civil war, were largely responsible for the situation in the city:
"It's primarily their decision whether there will be further deaths or whether the people there get help and hope after months of suffering."
LUSAKA (Reuters) - Zambian President Edgar Lungu narrowly won re-election on Monday in a vote his main rival said was rigged.
Hakainde Hichilema's United Party for National Development (UPND) said it would appeal the result at the Constitutional Court, accusing election officials of fraud during the count which began after voting ended on Thursday.
Lungu faced a tough challenge from Hichilema in a campaign to rule over Africa's second-largest copper producer which has suffered an economic slump due to depressed commodity prices.
Lungu, who narrowly beat Hichilema in a vote last year to replace late president Michael Sata, won 50.35 percent of the vote against 47.63 for his opponent, the Election Commission of Zambia (ECZ) said on Monday.
Hundreds of Lungu's supporters, most of them young men draped in the regalia of the ruling Patriotic Front (PF), took to the streets, chanting slogans and singing, while drivers hooted their car horns in celebration.
"I'm happy that Edgar Lungu can continue to be president because I see a good future with him. I want him to create jobs for young people," said 15-year-old Zegu Kaunda who said he wanted to study law like Lungu.
But student Harrison Simenda, 24, who supports Hichilema, popularly known as HH, said: "They have stolen this election from HH but they will not enjoy it because I see very tough times ahead for our economy."
UPND party lawyer Jack Mwiimbu told reporters: "We have evidence to the effect that the votes for Hakainde Hichilema have been deliberately reduced in collusion with the Election Commission of Zambia."
He said the party was confident the Constitutional Court would declare the election result invalid.
The ruling party and the electoral commission have rejected the UPND's charge.
Police said officers were sent to quell rioting by Hichilema's supporters in the south of the country after the result was announced.
The election was fought around the issues of rising unemployment, mine closures, power shortages and soaring food prices which Hichilema, an economist and businessman, blamed on Lungu's mismanagement.
But Lungu, whose government has been talking to the International Monetary Fund about financial aid to help plug its budget deficit, said he was doing his best to wean the economy off its over-reliance on copper.
"You can trust the government of President Edgar Lungu. We mean well and we shall not betray the people's trust," PF secretary-general Davis Chama said.
The election dispute, which could blight Zambia's reputation as one of the most stable democracies in Africa, could damage negotiations with the IMF, Capital Economics Africa analyst John Ashbourne said.
"The re-election of President Lungu, who had promised to drive a hard bargain with the IMF, could slow negotiations on a deal with the fund," he said.
The UPND said on Saturday data from its own parallel count showed Hichilema beating Lungu "with a clear margin" with about 80 percent of votes counted. Monday's result means Hichilema has now lost five presidential elections.
All parties had access to the raw voting data, in which Zambians also chose members of parliament, mayors and local councillors, faster than the national commission.
SEONGJU, South Korea (Reuters) - About 900 South Koreans shaved their heads on Monday to protest against a government decision to place a missile defence system designed to counter North Korean missile threats, in the southeastern county of Seongju.
Tension has run high since North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test in January and followed up with a satellite launch and a string of test launches of missiles.
South Korea announced in July that a U.S. THAAD anti-missile defence unit would be deployed in Seonjgu, but residents have protested, citing safety fears over the system's sophisticated radar and its potential to be a wartime target.
The plan has also angered China and prompted a North Korean warning of retaliation.
Seongju residents, many of them farmers cultivating a melon variety that has brought the county domestic fame, sat in somber silence as they had their heads shaved while a protest leader led a crowd in chants of "No THAAD!"
"THAAD should not be deployed at all, not just in Seongju, but anywhere in South Korea," said Yoo Ji-won, a 63-year-old melon farmer. "We residents gathered here and shaved heads to demonstrate against its deployment."
As many as 908 people joined in the head-shaving part of the protest, organizers said.
"This is the most powerful way of displaying protest," protest leader Kim An-soo said. "We cannot protest any bigger".
The South Korean defence ministry has vowed to minimize any impact from THAAD on residents and the environment.
"THAAD is a self-defensive measure we've decided to deploy to protect the lives of our people from North Korea's reckless provocations," South Korean president Park Geun-hye said in a speech on Monday.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Islamic State said on Monday they were responsible for a suicide bombing on a bus on Sunday which killed fighters from western-backed Syrian rebel groups near the Atmeh border crossing with Turkey.
In a statement on one of its Telegram channels, the hard-line militant group said it killed 50 rebels travelling on the bus, from the Failaq al-sham and the al-Zinki groups.
It said the rebels were travelling to fight against Islamic State in northern Aleppo province.
LUSAKA (Reuters) - Zambia's President Edgar Lungu defeated his main rival Hakainde Hichilema in a close fought presidential election, the southern African nation's electoral commission said on Monday.
Lungu, leader of the Patriotic Front, won 50.35 percent of the vote against 47.67 percent for Hichilema of the United Party for National Development, the commission said.
VIENNA (Reuters) - Two suspects have been arrested in connection with an attempt to set fire to a Turkish cultural centre in the northern Austrian town of Wels, police said on Monday, at a time of heightened tension between Vienna and Ankara.
The attack took place in early morning and the suspects, whom police declined to identify, were arrested immediately.
Turks are one of Austria's biggest immigrant communities, with more than 100,000 Turkish nationals registered in the country of 8.7 million people.
Wels, which has roughly 60,000 inhabitants, is also Austria's biggest town to have a mayor from the anti-immigration Freedom Party.
"An incendiary device was thrown through a pane of glass into the centre's premises. The incendiary device extinguished by itself and there was barely any property damage," a provincial police spokesman said, suggesting the device was a petrol bomb.
Austria has been sharply critical of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's clampdown on supporters of a U.S.-based cleric whom he blames for last month's failed coup attempt.
Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern has accused Erdogan of failing to adhere to democratic standards and suggested that the European Union should end accession talks with Turkey.
In a sign of the heightened tension, Turkey summoned Austria's charge d'affaires in Ankara over what it said was "indecent report" about Turkey on a news ticker at Vienna airport.
WASHINGTON/BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The U.S. nuclear regulator is considering long-term shipments of weapons-grade uranium to a medical research reactor in  security-challenged Belgium, something critics say would set back global anti-proliferation efforts.
With a final decision still months away, the Belgian Nuclear Research Centre is seeking permission from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to receive 317 pounds (144 kilos) of highly enriched uranium, or HEU, fuel in a series of shipments over 10 years.
The United States has supplied the reactor, which produces radioisotopes for fighting cancer, with HEU for decades. But the long-term nature of the latest request is unprecedented; previous agreements have been for periods of one to three years.
The Belgian research centre has told U.S. officials since at least 2005 that it is on the verge of converting to low-enriched uranium, or LEU, not suitable for bombs. But there is no definitive date set for that change.
"Now more than a decade has passed and they are asking for another 10 years - that seems to be a bit preposterous," said Armando Travelli, who until 2005 headed the U.S. Energy Department's program to convert research reactors to safer uranium and bring bomb-grade uranium back to the United States.
If the Belgian reactor closes before the end of the 10 years, it could leave the centre with an HEU supply over which the United States would have little control, he said.
Belgium has beefed up protections at nuclear plants after being rocked with security problems at the facilities for years. In 2014, an unknown perpetrator drained turbine lubricant at the country's Doel 4 reactor, shutting the power plant and causing $200 million in damages.
This year police said bombers who blew themselves up in Brussels had secretly filmed movements of the head of Belgium's nuclear research program. Police said the bombers, who were part of coordinated attacks on March 22 that killed 32 civilians, had planned to target Belgium's nuclear research facilities before changing their minds. The Islamic State militant group claimed responsibility for the suicide bombings.
Alan Kuperman, coordinator of the Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Project at the University of Texas, said if the NRC approves the application it would undermine efforts to swiftly convert reactors and signal that the United States is not serious about retrieving HEU.
"In the wake of the recent terrorist threat to the Belgian site, we have a request for bomb-grade uranium that is unprecedented in both duration and amount," said Kuperman who has filed a brief with the NRC calling for a hearing into the matter.
Former U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower's Atoms For Peace program launched a wave of global research reactors using HEU in the 1950s, but experts soon urged tightening controls. Since 1978, the United States has spent tens of millions of dollars trying to do so. Nearly 100 global research reactors have been shut down or converted to run on non-weapons grade uranium, but more than 70 plants still use HEU or plan to.
The application at the NRC, published this month in the Federal Register, is open for public comment until early September.
The NRC said there are no temporal restrictions on HEU shipments and that it approves exports only to users with "adequate physical security measures." It will likely rule in coming months after the Department of Energy and State Department weigh in.
The Belgian centre says the reactor supplies about 25 percent of the world's radioisotopes used in detecting and treating cancers and more in peak demand periods.
In the past, some reactors have switched to safe fuels only after the NRC threatened to cut off supply of HEU. But one American working on converting the Belgian reactor said its special need for high-energy density fuel means no suitable substitute has yet been found.
The Belgians are asking for 10 years because "there’s no other fuel they can use at the moment," said the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, adding that contracts for HEU exports shorter than 10 years "drive the costs way up."
The Belgian research centre said in a statement it is committed to using only low-enriched uranium fuel in the reactor "as soon as a technical solution exists." It has the same security procedures as the country's nuclear power plants, with permanent military protection, it added.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - A leak of refrigerant gas from a train's air-conditioning system caused what looked like smoke to billow from an underground station in central Singapore on Monday, train operator SMRT said.
There were no injuries, police said.
Videos on social media showed commuters rushing out of a train at the Tanjong Pagar station, covering their noses to protect themselves from grey gas. Some of them were seen taking pictures on their phones.
The gas triggered alarm after Indonesian police arrested six suspected Islamist militants on Aug. 5 on suspicion of plotting an attack on Singapore.
Margaret Teo, head of corporate marketing and communications for train operator SMRT Corporation Ltd, said there had been a leak of Freon gas.
"The discharge of Freon into the tunnel reduced visibility at parts of the station when the platform screen doors were opened for passengers to exit the train," Teo said in an e-mailed statement.
"SMRT staff switched on the tunnel ventilation system immediately to disperse the odourless gas," she said, adding that train services were not affected.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia is ready to provide the West with more evidence about armed Ukrainian incursions into the contested peninsula of Crimea, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday.
Russia accused Ukraine last week of planning terrorist attacks in Crimea to provoke a new conflict over the region Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. Ukraine flatly denied that.
Lavrov said in televised comments on Monday after talks with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier that Moscow could supply more evidence of what it has said was a long-planned Ukrainian plot to destabilise Crimea.
But in more conciliatory comments, Lavrov said he did not think anyone was interested in cutting diplomatic ties between Russia and Ukraine yet.
Steinmeier said all sides should refrain from doing anything that would escalate the already tense situation.
MANILA (Reuters) - Leftist activists and victims of human rights abuses in the Philippines urged the Supreme Court on Monday to block the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos at a cemetery for national heroes, saying it would be unconstitutional.
President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered the army to bury Marcos, who ruled with an iron fist for two decades, at the cemetery, saying he was fulfilling a campaign promise to have him interred there as a former president and soldier.
Critics of the plan include Vice President Leni Robredo and senators allied with former President Benigno Aquino.
On Monday, victims of rights abuses during the rule of Marcos and leftist activists went to the Supreme Court seeking a temporary restraining order to stop the plan.
"The interment of the remains of Marcos at the Libingan ng mga Bayani with the honours that supposedly befit only Filipino heroes with overall unblemished integrity and dignity is contrary to the constitution," they said in the petition, referring to the cemetery.
Marcos was a soldier and guerrilla leader during World War Two when the former U.S. colony was occupied by Japanese forces.
As a dictator in the 1970s and '80s, Marcos, his family and cronies amassed an estimated $10 billion in ill-gotten wealth and thousands of suspected communist rebels and political foes were killed. His wife, Imelda, denies amassing wealth illegally.
In 1986, he was ousted in a "people power" revolt and fled to Hawaii where he died three years later. His remains were returned in the early 1990s and have been kept in a family mausoleum in his hometown in the north.
The critics said Duterte's plan to transfer Marcos' remains would also violate military regulations that bar from the cemetery "those who have been dishonourable discharged from service or personnel convicted  of an offence involving moral turpitude".
Chanting "Marcos, not a hero," hundreds of people held a protest on Sunday at a park to oppose the government plan.
Presidential Press Secretary Martin Andanar, said the president was not bothered by the protests and the plan was going ahead.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - A Thai military helicopter that went missing on Sunday crashed in bad weather in northern Thailand, killing all five people on board, the army said on Monday.
The dead included Major General Nopporn Ruanchan, who was commander of the army's 4th Infantry Division, said Lieutenant General Somsak Ninbanjerdkun.
Poor visibility due to the weather may have caused the crash, said Somsak, who is commander of the Third Area Army overseeing Thailand's north.
The UH-72 light helicopter went down in Chiang Mai, near Thailand's highest mountain, he said. It was returning to base in Phitsanuloke from a flood mission near the border with Myanmar.
The others on board were two pilots and two mechanics, Somsak said.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand could lose up to 200,000 foreign visitors and $293 million in tourism revenue this year, the head of its tourism authority said on Monday, after a series of deadly blasts in tourist towns last week.
The wave of attacks in places including the seaside town of Hua Hin and the island of Phuket, is the biggest challenge to an industry that has weathered more than a decade of instability and bounced back from violence over recent years.
Yuthasak Supasorn, governor of the state Tourism Authority of Thailand, said the attacks could result in long-term losses in terms of tourist revenue and arrivals, mainly from other Asian countries.
"By the year end, there could be about 100,000 to 200,000 travel cancellations," he said in a statement.
"That would cost about 5.08 billion baht ($146 million) to 10.16 billion baht ($293 million)."
Tourism accounts for 10 percent of Thai gross domestic product and is one of the few bright spots in an economy that has struggled under the stewardship of a military government that seized power in a bloodless coup two years ago.
The Southeast Asian nation had been expecting a record 32 million visitors in 2016, with expected revenue of 2.41 trillion baht ($70 billion).
Narongchai Wongthanavimok, chief financial officer at national carrier Thai Airways (THAI.BK), Thailand's national carrier, said on Friday the bombings would hurt business and consumer confidence.
No group has claimed responsibility for the Thursday and Friday attacks that killed four people and wounded dozens, some of them tourists.
Police said on Monday said they had arrested one man for arson.
Embassies in Thailand have warned their citizens to stay vigilant and some have warned that there could be more attacks.
A bomb attack on a Bangkok shrine on Aug. 17 last year, killed 20 people, more than half of them Asian tourists, but it did not seriously undermine the industry.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A preliminary investigation found no evidence of gunfire in a terminal at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on Sunday, despite earlier reports of shots being heard, the airport's operator said.
No gun casings were found after a search of Terminal 8, where reports of gunshots in the departures area prompted an evacuation, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said in a message on social network Twitter.
"The terminal was evacuated out of an abundance of caution," the agency said. "Travelers should contact their carriers."
Video and photos posted on social media showed hundreds of people streaming out of Terminal 8, used by Air Berlin, Alaska Airlines, American Eagle, American Airlines, Finnair and other carriers.
The security measures stayed in place hours after the scare, with roadways at the airport closed and passengers milling about.
Sherwin Bryce-Pease, a correspondent with South African Broadcasting Corp based in New York, was on a Norwegian Airlines flight from Paris that landed shortly before 10 p.m. (0200 GMT).
"They told us nothing from the flight deck," he said. "Only that the earliest the gate will be available will be in an hour and 15 minutes from when we landed, an announcement greeted by huge sighs."
On Saturday, reports of gunfire sent a crowded mall in Raleigh, North Carolina, into chaos. The Crabtree Valley Mall was placed on lockdown after several shoppers reported hearing gunfire, but a search turned up no suspects or bullet casings.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand's army said on Monday it had detained several people for questioning over a wave of deadly bombings in some of the country's best known-beach resorts that killed four people and wounded dozens, including tourists.
Last week's blasts came days after Thais voted to accept a military-backed constitution that paves the way for an election at the end of 2017.
No group has claimed responsibility, although police and the government have ruled out ties to foreign groups, linking the bombings to an unspecified domestic issue.
Analysts say suspicion would inevitably fall on enemies of the junta aggrieved by the referendum results, or insurgents from Muslim-majority provinces in the south of the predominantly Buddhist country.
Several people are being held at army facilities, but none have been charged, military government spokesman Colonel Winthai Suvaree told Reuters.
"Ever since the incident on August 11, the army has used Article 44 to summon people who the state think can give useful information," Winthai said.
The legislation gives the military government absolute power to take any steps needed to protect the public peace and detain people for up to seven days without a court warrant.
"They were sent to various army camps," added Winthai, who  declined to say how many were detained, although rights groups fear the number runs into the dozens. "Nobody has been charged so far."
On Sunday, a deputy national police chief said the attacks were carried out simultaneously by one group on the orders of one person, but gave no further details.
Police on Sunday said they had arrested one person for arson but did not elaborate.
Over the weekend authorities defused at least five explosive devices that had failed to detonate.
Three bombs went off in the Muslim-majority province of Yala late on Sunday, but nobody was injured, police said.
Defence minister Prawit Wongsuwan said last week's blasts were "definitely" not related to the southern insurgency, although  some involved might have come from the region.
"It is definitely not an extension of the deep south insurgency," Prawit told reporters on Monday. "But it is possible they could have been hired from there."
For more than a decade, Thailand has been divided between populist political forces, led by former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and the royalist and military establishment.
They accuse Thaksin, toppled in a 2006 coup, of corruption and nepotism, charges he rejects. His sister Yingluck, who took power after a 2011 election win, was ousted in a 2014 coup.
Fears that Yingluck and Thaksin could be blamed for orchestrating last week's attacks prompted a denial by their party.
TOKYO (Reuters) - An earthquake shook buildings in the Japanese capital on Monday, but there was no danger of a tsunami and no immediate reports of injuries or damage.
The centre of the 5.5 magnitude earthquake was located under the sea on Japan's northeast coast, not far from the site of a magnitude 9 quake in 2011 that touched off a massive tsunami and left nearly 20,000 dead. The tsunami also set off the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986.
Earthquakes are common in Japan, one of the world's most seismically active areas. Japan accounts for about 20 percent of the world's earthquakes of magnitude 6 or greater.
TOKYO (Reuters) - When Japanese Crown Prince Naruhito proposed to a reluctant Masako Owada, he promised to protect her with all his might, a vow that may get tougher to keep if, as expected, his father Emperor Akihito abdicates, and the woman who has struggled to adjust to royal life becomes empress.
The 82-year-old Akihito, who with Empress Michiko has won hearts at home by championing the disadvantaged and worked to heal the wounds of World War Two abroad, hinted in a televised address on Monday that he could give up the Chrysanthemum Throne due to advancing age.
While the earnest Naruhito, 56, is seen as ready for the succession and has taken on more official duties, Masako, 52, who turned down his first two proposals during a long courtship beginning nearly 30 years ago, has struggled as Crown Princess.
Harvard-educated Masako, who reluctantly abandoned a diplomatic career to marry, has for more than a decade battled depression, as she grappled with the prescriptions and proscriptions of palace life and pressure to produce a son.
Their daughter, 14-year-old Aiko, cannot take the throne under male-only inheritance laws.
In 2012, Masako, who spent large parts of her early life overseas and speaks several languages, acknowledged that she had been battling a stress-related illness for a long time. Her public appearances are still sporadic.
"Imperial popularity tends to be earned through carrying out public duties over the course of the reign," said Kenneth Ruoff, a professor at Portland State University and author of "The People's Emperor."
"If Naruhito does that, there is no reason to think he would be any less respected than his father. The case of Masako is more difficult to foresee."
Naruhito's interests in medieval transport and environmental causes seem safely worthy, if dull, though royal watchers say he has broken new ground, like advocating hands-on fathering, uncommon in a country where there is still a strong gender-based division of labour both at work and home.
He is also unusual, for a Japanese royal, in having studied abroad, and describes his two years at Oxford University as some of the happiest days of his life.
Naruhito has made clear he will carry on his father's work of reminding people about the importance of peace, even as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe moves to recast wartime history with a less apologetic tone.
But he is best known for his passionate defence of Masako, who disappeared from public view in 2003 with shingles and what was later described as an "adjustment disorder".
In 2004 he set off an unusually public feud with the Imperial Household, an agency responsible for organising the activities of the royal family, by saying that Masako, who had hoped to use her diplomatic experience as crown princess, had "totally exhausted herself" trying to adapt to palace life.
"It is true there were moves to negate Masako's career and her personality, which was influenced by that career," he said.
Naruhito's defence continued through the years, during which tabloids occasionally criticised his wife for slacking off. In 2008 he pleaded for understanding, saying: "Masako is continuing to make utmost efforts with the help of those around her."
An emperor's duties include religious ceremonies and opening parliament, but social welfare work has taken centre stage.
Images of Akihito and Michiko, informally dressed and kneeling to talk to disaster victims in evacuation centres are imprinted in public memory, and they have also visited centres for the disabled and elderly.
In rural areas and among the older generation, where support for the emperor runs highest, the presence of the royals as a couple is especially valued, said Midori Watanabe, a journalist and visiting professor at Bunka Gakuen University.
"What's important is that the two of them are together," Watanabe said. "He (Naruhito) promised he'd protect her all their lives," she added. "I think she'll make efforts for him."
Miiko Kodama, professor emeritus at Musashi University, said Masako's ultimate elevation to empress could, however, prove a boon to the unhappy princess, as it did to her mother-in-law.
Michiko, the first commoner to marry a royal heir, grew gaunt and visibly unhappy in her younger days due to stress, but became the most visible and widely travelled imperial consort in Japanese history.
"When Masako becomes empress, her higher status will mean more people will listen to her," Kodama said.
"With fewer people putting unnecessary pressure on her, I think you can expect many of her symptoms will improve."
YANGON (Reuters) - Two Myanmar labour rights groups looking after migrant workers said Myanmar authorities had blocked them from operating in Thailand because they had criticised recruitment practices as "legal human trafficking".
Up to 3 million people from Myanmar are working in neighbouring Thailand, many doing menial jobs, and contributing a significant portion to total remittances that amount to 5 percent of gross domestic product, according to a World Bank estimate.
The two groups, Aid Alliance Committee for Myanmar Workers (AAC) and Myanmar Association in Thailand (MAT), need permission from their government to operate.
But the groups said permission had been revoked after they called in a news conference last week for their government to crack down on Myanmar employment agencies, whose practices they said led to the mistreatment and even imprisonment of workers.
"The embassy revoked the licence it issued to us," Ye Min of the AAC told Reuters late on Tuesday.
"We've decided to stop operations since we can't do anything without a licence," Ye Min said, adding the AAC believed the embassy action was in response to their criticism at last week's news conference.
The embassy did not respond to requests for comment but the permanent secretary at the foreign ministry, Aung Lynn, denied that the embassy in Bangkok has anything to do with the affair.
He blamed the problem on infighting among activists and denied that their licenses had been revoked.
Last week, the labour groups criticised arrangements for  workers and called on the government led by democracy champion Aung San Suu Kyi, who met migrant workers in Thailand on a visit there in June, to overhaul the system.
"Only corrupt Myanmar officials and dishonest job agencies close to them are benefiting from existing policy and practices," Kyaw Thaung of the MAT told the news conference.
The MAT likened the system to "legal human trafficking".
Officials at the Myanmar Labour Ministry, which oversees arrangements for migrant workers, were not available for comment.
Kyaw Thaung said that after the news conference, police told him an organisation of employment agencies sending workers abroad had filed a defamation case against him.
"I feel intimidated because of our open criticism of the malpractice and corruption by officials and job agents,” he said.
Kyaw Zaw, general secretary of the Myanmar Overseas Employment Agencies Federation confirmed it had reported Kyaw Thaung to the police.
Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party is drafting a law giving more legal protection to overseas workers, said Myo Zaw Aung, an NLD lawmaker.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Jeff Flake said on Tuesday that Republican nominee Donald Trump will not be able to win the presidential election, and should not win it, if he maintains the positions that he holds now, including his harsh stance on immigration.
In an interview, Flake said he still hopes Trump will change enough that the Republican senator from Arizona will be able to vote for the candidate in the Nov. 8 election.
But, Flake said, "It's a slim hope."
He said that as things stand, Trump will even have difficulty clinching the state of Arizona if the nominee, who has called for building a wall on the border with Mexico, does not develop a more "serious" immigration policy.
Arizona last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate two decades ago.
"Given the positions that he's taken, if he continues to maintain those positions, if he continues to hold to the statements he has made, I don't think he can win the presidency, nor do I think he should if he is unwilling to change," Flake said of Trump.
"There is a big difference between winning a primary, getting what, 14 million votes, and getting 65 million votes that you're going to need to win the presidency. In between those two numbers you encounter a number of swing voters, independents, who simply don't cotton to the kind of message that he has been delivering. And that's just the reality," Flake said.
Flake, 53, has long been one of Trump's more vocal critics on Capitol Hill. Trump's inflammatory remarks about immigrants have been a particular problem for Flake, whose Southwestern border state has a large Hispanic population. Flake was among eight senators who proposed comprehensive immigration reform in 2013.
Flake memorably told a reporter last month that he would not be attending the Republican convention to nominate Trump because he had to mow the lawn.
Flake told Vanity Fair magazine in July: "I don't think that there's much worry of a Trump presidency if he doesn't change."
But he also insists that he will not vote for the Democratic candidate, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Flake, a member of the House of Representatives for 12 years before being elected to the Senate in 2012, said Arizonans are more realistic and pragmatic on immigration than Trump.
Right now, Flake said, Arizona is almost a "toss-up" in the presidential election.
Flake does not have to run for re-election to the Senate until 2018. His fellow Arizona senator, John McCain, is up for re-election this year, and faces both primary and general election challengers. McCain has said he backs Trump.
Flake said he respected Senator Susan Collins of Maine, another Republican, who said in an opinion article published on Monday that she definitely would not vote for Trump. Flake said he was not prepared to follow Collins' example, which did not set off a stampede of Trump repudiations.
WILMINGTON, N.C. (Reuters) - Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump suggested on Tuesday that gun rights activists could act to stop Democratic rival Hillary Clinton from nominating liberal U.S. Supreme Court justices, igniting yet another fire storm of criticism just as he sought to steer clear of controversy.
"If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do folks," Trump said at a rally. "Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know," he continued.
The U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment guarantees the right to bear firearms.
Before the remark, Trump had been emphasizing his case against Clinton, who is leading in national opinion polls in the race for the Nov. 8 election. Some in the audience in North Carolina who were seated behind Trump could be seen wincing when he made the comment.
Clinton's campaign called the remark "dangerous."
"A person seeking to be the president of the United States should not suggest violence in any way,” it said.  
When asked to clarify what Trump meant, his campaign said he was referring to getting supporters of the Second Amendment to rally votes for Trump in the election.
"It’s called the power of unification – 2nd Amendment people have amazing spirit and are tremendously unified, which gives them great political power," the Trump campaign said in its statement.
Immediately after Trump made his comment, many on social media accused him of effectively calling for Clinton’s assassination. In just three hours, 2nd amendment became the top trending topic on Twitter, with more than 60,000 posts mentioning the term.
Introducing Trump later at another rally in North Carolina, in Fayetteville, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani accused the news media of taking the remark out of context to help Clinton get elected.
"What he meant by that was you have the power to vote against her," Giuliani said to cheers. "You have the power to speak against her. You know why? Because you're Americans."
"It proves that most of the press is in the tank for Hillary Clinton," he added. "They are doing everything they can to destroy Donald Trump."
The U.S. Secret Service, which provides security details for both Trump and Clinton and rarely comments on political matters, when asked for a response on Trump, said: “The Secret Service is aware of the comment."
Trump later told Fox News Channel's "Hannity" program that “nobody in that room" thought he meant anything other than to rally support against Clinton.
"This is a strong powerful movement, the Second Amendment," Trump said. "Hillary wants to take your guns away. She wants to leave you unprotected in your home.  This is a tremendous political movement."
By day's end, Trump was drawing criticism on several fronts, another chapter in a campaign marked by bitterness and  partisanship.
Michael Hayden, a former CIA director who on Monday was among 50 Republican national security experts to denounce Trump in a letter, said on CNN, "You’re not just responsible for what you say. You are responsible for what people hear.”
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, a liberal firebrand who loves tweaking Trump, tweeted that the Republican nominee "makes death threats because he's a pathetic coward who can’t handle the fact that he’s losing to a girl."
Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway fought back in a tweet of her own, calling Warren a "disgrace."
Gun rights, which have long stirred strong emotions in America, have been a particularly potent issue in the 2016 presidential campaign as violence has convulsed some U.S. cities.
Trump has planted himself firmly on the side of gun owners with a "law and order" campaign. Before his remark about Clinton on Tuesday, he had said Islamic State militants who killed 130 people in France last year could have been stopped if some of the victims had been armed.
The Clinton campaign has challenged Trump when in the past he has accused her of planning to abolish the Second Amendment if elected president. Clinton, in her acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention, said, "I'm not here to repeal the Second Amendment," saying she wanted "common-sense reforms" to gun laws.
Tuesday's speech came on the heels of a discordant week on the campaign trail for Trump, a businessman seeking his first public office. He came under fire from within his party for belatedly endorsing fellow Republicans in re-election races and a prolonged clash with the parents of fallen Muslim American Army captain Humayun Khan.
On Monday, Trump seemed to be heeding Republican advice to stick to a message of criticizing Clinton and other Democrats while putting forward economic policy proposals in a speech in Detroit.
Trump's vice presidential running mate, Mike Pence, asked if he believed Trump was inciting violence toward Clinton, told NBC’s Philadelphia affiliate: “Of course not. No."
But Democrats called Trump's remarks another sign of a candidate unfit for the White House.
“Don’t treat this as a political misstep. It’s an assassination threat, seriously upping the possibility of a national tragedy & crisis," U.S. Senator Chris Murphy, a Democrat, said in a tweet.
Overall sentiment on social media posts on Trump's remarks was more negative than positive, at a ratio of 2.5 to 1, according to the social media analytics firm Zoomph. #ProtectHillary was also one of the top trending hashtags on Twitter.
The 50 prominent national security officials said in their letter on Monday that Trump would be "the most reckless president in American history."
"He appears to lack basic knowledge about and belief in the U.S. Constitution, U.S. laws and U.S. institutions, including religious tolerance, freedom of the press, and an independent judiciary," their statement said.
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey (Reuters) - Three soldiers were killed and ten others were wounded in Turkey's southeastern Sirnak province on Wednesday in an attack believed to have been carried out by militants of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), security sources said.
Militants opened fire with rockets and long-range weapons from across northern Iraq into a road near the Uludere district, hitting a military vehicle as it passed, the sources said.
The security sources had initially said five soldiers had been killed and eight wounded.
Turkey's southeast has seen the worst violence in two decades since the PKK abandoned a 2-1/2-year ceasefire last year.
The PKK, designated as a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the European Union and the United States, took up arms against the Turkish state in 1984 and more than 40,000 people, mainly Kurds, have died in the ensuing violence.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia's first online national census was in chaos on Wednesday after the survey website crashed overnight due to a possible cyber attack, raising concerns over the country's cyber security and criticism of its slow internet services.
"It was an attack and we believe from overseas," Australia’s chief statistician, David Kalisch told Australian Broadcasting Corp radio.
Kalisch said that no data from the 2.3 million forms already submitted to the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) had been stolen. "We have it at the ABS. No one else has it," he said.
The census provides a snapshot every five years of the living conditions of Australia's 24 million people, detailing incomes, religious and ethnic backgrounds, marital status, etc.
The minister responsible for the survey, Michael McCormack, refused to call the online crash an attack, but rather a "denial of service attempt" when the website was deliberately overloaded.
He said the site was equipped to handle heavy traffic, but there was a spike in visitors so steep that a router overloaded and the website was closed as a precaution.
"This was not an attack, nor was it a hack, but rather it was an attempt to frustrate the collection of Bureau of Statistics census data," McCormack said.
As authorities scrambled to provide a cohesive explanation for why the census was not completed for the first time in its 105-year history, some politicians and privacy advocates said the incident vindicated their security concerns.
Some independent Senators boycotted the census because for the first time it was mandatory for Australians to identify themselves in the survey.
"It shows woeful disregard for Australian people's privacy and data," Anna Johnston, a privacy lawyer and director of consultancy Salinger Privacy, told Australian Associated Press.
The failure has also led to criticism of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's decision to scale back a A$38 billion ($29.2 billion) upgrade of Australia's internet infrastructure, stopping short of connecting homes directly to a broadband network amid cost overruns.
Australia's internet services rank 48th in the world, by average speed, according to the most recent State of the internet report by Akamai Technologies, an IT company specializing in internet speed technology.
Both Australia's Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, and the government-appointed privacy commissioner, Timothy Pilgrim, are investigating the crash.
"My first priority is to ensure that no personal information has been compromised as a result of these attacks," Pilgrim said in a statement.
($1 = 1.3002 Australian dollars)
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - A bus carrying journalists at the Rio Games was hit by gunfire on a highway between Olympic venues on Tuesday, witnesses said. No one was seriously injured in the incident.
The bus was making its way from the Games basketball venue to the main Olympic park when, according to passengers, two shots were heard hitting the vehicle. Windows shattered and flying glass left two people with minor lacerations.
"We were shot at. I mean we could hear the report of the gun," said Sherryl "Lee" Michaelson, a retired U.S. air force captain who is working for a basketball publication in Rio.
A spokesman for the Rio organising committee, Mario Andrada, said forensic investigators were trying to determine if the projectile was a bullet or a rock.
"We haven't yet been able to confirm what kind of projectile hit the bus," he said, adding that the incident occurred in the Curicaca neighbourhood, just a few kilometres (miles) north of the Olympic Park. "We don't want to speculate."
A Reuters photograph taken in the first moments of the incident showed a small hole, about the width of a finger, in one of the windows.
Violent street crime in Rio has left its mark on South America's first Olympic Games. On Saturday, a bullet hit the equestrian centre, missing journalists there by just a few feet. That bullet was suspected to have been fired by a gang member trying to shoot down a police blimp or drone, officials said.
KATHMANDU (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Last year's twin earthquakes in Nepal disproportionately affected single women, underlining the need for equal land ownership to increase their resilience in disasters, a women's rights activist has said.
Of the more than 900,000 homes damaged and destroyed, about a quarter belonged to female-headed households. More than 500,000 women and girls were displaced and about 2,000 women were widowed, according to official data.
"The deep gender inequality in Nepal meant that women, and single women in particular, suffered most in the aftermath of the earthquakes," said Lily Thapa, founder of Women for Human Rights (WHR), a group campaigning for single women's rights with about 100,000 members.
"They could not make themselves heard and they received the least assistance, which left many vulnerable to abuse, trafficking and harassment," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in Kathmandu.
While the 2015 constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender and established equal property rights, a deep-rooted patriarchy still denies these rights to women, and to single women in particular.
Nepal's categorisation of single women - estimated by the charity to number 500,000 - includes those who are widowed, those who are unmarried above the age of 35, and those who are divorced.
Early marriage, with 37 percent of Nepali women married before the age of 18, increases their vulnerability, Thapa said.
The migration of millions of young Nepali men overseas to find jobs has also led to an increase in female-headed households to 26 percent in 2011 from 15 percent in 2001, according to census data.
While women's ownership of land and property has improved in recent years, women are still much less likely to inherit land, to have land registered in their name, or possess documentation that supports their claim, Thapa said.
Female ownership of land and/or property stood at 20 percent in 2011 compared with 12 percent in 2001. In rural areas, it is 18 percent compared with 27 percent in urban areas.
The quakes that struck last April and May killed 9,000 people and injured at least 22,000 in the Himalayan nation.
Nearly a quarter of the 495 single women-headed households surveyed by WHR and Oxfam after the disaster said they had lost their property papers, and nearly half had lost their citizenship certificates.
Many women have never had citizenship papers, marriage certificates or even birth certificates. Getting documentation can be daunting for single women, as large numbers are illiterate, Thapa said.
After the quakes, these challenges were thrown into sharp relief as single women had to repair or rebuild their homes and care for the family. Many were unable to seek assistance.
When WHR surveyed women several months after the quakes, more female-headed households than male-headed households were still in camps, Thapa said.
"Women who were widowed in the quakes, for example, had to observe the mourning rituals for a year - staying indoors, not going into crowds. How could they go get relief or get new papers?" Thapa said.
"There is a lot of social pressure on widows, on single women to observe rituals, to stay home, to remain dependent on men," said Thapa, a widow herself.
Nepal appointed its first female president last year and its first female chief justice earlier this year, in signs that the country is becoming increasingly inclusive, following the end of 10 years of civil war in 2006.
WHR is lobbying the government to include single women in the planning and implementation of disaster preparedness, response and recovery programmes and resettlement plans.
It is also asking the government to ensure that joint land ownership registration is made mandatory for married couples, and to promote women's registration on other forms of land documentation.
"Strengthening single women's asset ownership is key to reducing their vulnerability to disasters and boosting their resilience," Thapa said.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - More than 2,000 incidents, including sexual abuse, assault and attempted self-harm, were reported in about two years at an Australian detention centre for asylum seekers in Nauru, more than half involving children, a newspaper reported on Wednesday.
Leaked documents published by the Guardian Australia detail again the level of abuse at the centre on tiny Nauru, one of two run by Australia on neighbouring South Pacific islands, and show once more that children bear the brunt of the trauma.
The closely protected camps, and Australia's hard-line immigration policy against illegal boat arrivals, have been widely criticised by the United Nations and human rights groups.
Under Australia's policy, asylum seekers intercepted at sea are sent to Nauru and another camp on Manus Island, in Papua New Guinea, and told they will never be settled in Australia.
The number of refugees and asylum seekers trying to reach Australia is tiny compared with Europe, but immigration has long been an emotive issue in Australia and the hardline immigration has bipartisan political support.
Australia said it was seeking to confirm all reports had been dealt with by Nauru police. "It's important to note many of these incident reports reflect unconfirmed allegations," a spokeswoman for Australia's Department of Immigration said.
The more than 2,000 leaked incident reports published by the Guardian cover the period between August 2013 and October 2015.
Children account for less than 20 percent of the roughly 500 detainees held on Nauru. The were 59 reports of assaults on children in the period, and seven reports of sexual assaults.  Some of the reports alleged abuse by guards against children, while there other reports of sexual advances by unknown men.
The reports also show there were 30 incidents of self-harm among children and 159 of threatened self-harm involving minors.
The remaining reports involving children cover a variety of issues, ranging from accidents to misbehaviour.
One of the leaked incident reports said a child had "written in her book that she was tired, doesn't like the camp and wants to die ... 'I want death, I need death',".
Refugee advocates said the leaked reports show the urgent need to end Australia's offshore detention policy and that asylum seekers must be given medical and psychological support.
"It is clear from these documents, and our own research, that many have been driven to the brink of physical or mental breakdown by their treatment on Nauru," said Anna Neistat, senior director for research at Amnesty International.
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Wealthier countries including the United States and Australia score behind Latin America and African nations when it comes to laws protecting indigenous land rights, according to the first analysis of an online global map of land ownership.
Known as 'LandMark', the interactive platform was launched nine months ago with the aim of building an accurate, ongoing picture of indigenous or community lands using data provided by recognised organizations and experts around the world.
With 113 countries now logged into the database, the Washington-based World Resources Institute (WRI) analysed the findings so far and found countries in Latin America and Africa have the strongest laws for protecting indigenous land.
The results, released on World Indigenous Peoples' Day, showed that Bolivia, Colombia, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela in Latin America and Burkina Faso, Tanzania, South Sudan and Uganda in Africa rated highest.
WRI research associate Katie Reytar said these developing countries scored higher than many in the developed world, including the United States, Australia, Canada and Norway, and are more progressive in protecting indigenous land and resource rights.
"The 113 countries evaluated in LandMark's database show that the legal security of Indigenous Peoples' lands and natural resources varies widely," Reytar told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Studies show that indigenous people are estimated to protect more than 50 percent of the world's land surface but have formally recognised ownership of over just 10 percent.
The analysis used the data collected on 113 countries and scored them on 10 indicators on how their national or federal laws protect indigenous land and property rights. It also identified which countries were lagging behind.
The seven lowest scoring nations across all 10 indicators were in the Middle East including Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Syria and Yemen.
Researchers said this suggests that their national laws "effectively make no attempt to address land rights".
The study also assessed which nations legally enshrine principles of 'Free, Prior and Informed Consent' (FPIC) for indigenous peoples prior to the acquisition of land by governments or outsiders.
These are incorporated in both binding and non-binding international human rights laws but the survey found the vast majority of 113 countries mapped "make limited or no attempt to incorporate FPICs".
Reytar said the first analysis focussed on evaluating national laws to show which legal frameworks were best placed to protect indigenous and community land rights.
But she said ongoing analysis next year would try to evaluate the laws in practice, to measure and compare how they were working in each country.
"The goal then will be to look at how well the laws are being implemented and the perception of security among indigenous peoples," she said.
Reytar said the project had no end date and data would be updated continually, with this monitoring helping such campaigns as one driven by the International Land Coalition and Oxfam to double the amount of land under secure tenure by 2020.
RIO DE JANEIRO/BRASILIA (Reuters) - Olympic organizers appealed on Tuesday against a Brazilian judge's decision to allow spectators to display political banners inside Games' venues, fueling a debate over free speech and the right to protest in the divided South American nation.
The federal judge in Rio de Janeiro issued the injunction late on Monday, overruling a government ban on political slogans during the Games provided that the demonstrations were "peaceful".
Many Brazilians reacted angrily to images of security guards expelling protesters with banners against interim President Michel Temer from Olympic venues in recent days.
Many people tweeted that conservative Temer, who took office when left-leaning President Dilma Rousseff was suspended on charges of breaking budget rules, deserved a "gold medal for repression".
Judge Joao Augusto Carneiro Araújo issued the injunction following a request by federal prosecutors, who questioned the ban decided by the governments of Brazil and Rio state and the Rio 2016 organizing committee.
The prosecutors said the ban infringed constitutional guarantees of freedom of expression. Any appeal against the injunction could end up in the Supreme Court, being a constitutional issue.
A spokesman for the Rio 2016 organizing committee said it was notified of the judicial order on Tuesday and had immediately petitioned the judge to reconsider. In the meantime, it would respect the ruling.
"We believe that sports venues are not the place for political, religious or racial protests," Mario Andrada told a news conference. He said the same issue arose during the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the ban on political banners had been upheld.
Protesters carrying "Temer Out" signs and T-shirts were once again seen in several stadiums on Tuesday. In the Mane Garrincha stadium in Brasilia a steward could be seen tearing a banner from the hands of an opposition protester, in apparent defiance of the injunction.
Brazil is hosting South America's first Games amid a political crisis that has opened deep fissures in the nation of 200 million people.
The ruling came as Brazil's Senate opened a debate on Tuesday whether to formally indict Rousseff. With Temer's coalition pushing for her dismissal, the Senate is expected to remove Rousseff, who was suspended in May, from office this month.
Rousseff has denied any wrongdoing and her supporters accuse Temer of staging an undemocratic "coup".
Speaking in her defense, Workers Party Senator Regina Sousa denounced the curtailment of freedom of expression at the Games.
"To drag away people carrying 'Out with Temer' signs on A4 paper or T-shirts is the clearest example of the police state that this country is becoming," Sousa told the Senate.
A spokesman for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) pointed out that the Olympic charter forbids political propaganda within venues, as well as any kind of religious or racial messages.
"We hope that everyone understands that this is a global event and the Games should not become a platform for political debate," said Mark Adams, IOC director of communications.
The impeachment of Rousseff has paralyzed Brazilian politics since the start of the year, deepening a crisis set off by a huge kickback and bribery scandal at state-led oil company Petrobras.
GEORGE TOWN (Reuters) - Two people have contracted the Zika virus locally in the Cayman Islands, the health department said on Tuesday, bringing the total number infected by the virus in the Caribbean territory to eight.
A woman living in Cayman's capital George Town first reported her symptoms in July, and a sample sent to the Caribbean Public Health Agency for testing came back positive, the department said in a statement.
She is not believed to have traveled to any countries in which Zika is present.
Late on Monday, the health department announced the first known case of Zika contracted on the islands, by a man who had also not traveled to affected countries. Six other people have contracted the virus overseas and returned home carrying the infection.
Health authorities say that when contracted by pregnant women, Zika can cause the birth defect microcephaly and other severe brain abnormalities in babies.
The ongoing Zika outbreak was first detected last year in Brazil, where it has been linked to more than 1,700 cases of the birth defect microcephaly. Since that time the virus has spread rapidly through the Americas.
In July, Florida confirmed that the mostly mosquito borne virus had been transmitted locally on the U.S. mainland for the first time.
DUBAI/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Iranian security forces may have pressured nuclear scientist Shahram Amiri, hanged last week for spying for the United States, to admit to crimes he did not commit, his mother said in an interview this week.
Amiri leapt to the global spotlight in 2010 when he claimed first that U.S. agents had abducted him and then that he was in the United States of his own free will.
The same year, he returned to Iran where he was welcomed as a hero but then detained and tried on charges that he divulged nuclear secrets.
"When I was saying goodbye to him before his execution, he told me not to be sad as he had done nothing wrong," Marzieh Amiri told Reuters in a telephone interview.
"He asked me to tell everyone that he was innocent. He was saying his conscience was clear," she said.
Her son's closed-door trial was unfair and he was not properly represented, she said. She did not know the full name of the lawyer, who as a result could not be reached for comment.
"They should have held a public trial," she said. "I am not angry with the government or the Supreme Leader (of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei). I am angry with extremist security forces who were on his case, trying to prove he was a spy and who maybe forced him to confess to things he hadn't done."
Iranian judiciary officials could not be reached for comment. Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei, spokesman for Iran's judiciary, told reporters Amiri received a fair trial and the case followed standard judicial procedure.
"He ... had contacted Iran's number one enemy, America, and had given our most secret and vital information to them," Mohseni Ejei said on Sunday, according to the state broadcaster.
In June 2010, Iranian state television showed Amiri, then 32, saying in a video he was in Arizona after U.S. and Saudi intelligence forces kidnapped him a year earlier during a religious pilgrimage abroad.
In a second video soon afterwards, Amiri said he was in the United States voluntarily and wanted to dispel "rumours" that had been spread about him.
"I am an Iranian, and I have taken no step against my homeland," he said.
As a young man with a talent for electronics in the Iranian city of Kermanshah, Amiri would tote his toolbox to friends' houses and fix their broken appliances, his mother said.
He won a coveted scholarship from the defence ministry to further his studies and eventually became a researcher in radiation safety at the defence ministry-affiliated Malek Ashtar University of Technology, visiting sites associated with Iran's nuclear program.
According to a U.S. official involved in the case, the Central Intelligence Agency recruited Amiri in Iran and helped extract him using the pilgrimage.
But U.S. officials had doubts about the depth of Amiri's knowledge and access to the most sensitive information.
Amiri was questioned, given a new identity and a home in Arizona, and paid around $5 million (4 million pounds) , the officials said.
However he began telling his handlers he missed his young son and wanted to return to Iran, though they warned he likely would face imprisonment or worse and might never see his son.
Arriving in Tehran in July 2010, he was greeted by his son, reporters and Iran's deputy foreign minister. Someone placed a wreath around his neck and he flashed a "V" for victory while clutching his son.
Marzieh Amiri said her son was free on his return and even took a vacation in Iran with his family. "But one day they suddenly arrested him ... When we followed up, (the security forces) said, 'It's for his own protection. He is our guest'."
He was held in isolation in Tehran, his mother said. His wife filed for divorce, and he became nervous and suffered from high blood pressure
"His loneliness was killing him," she said, adding she visited him once or twice a month. "He told me he prefers to die as he could not tolerate the isolation any more."
Last week, officials brought his corpse to Kermanshah. Rope marks on his neck indicated he had been hanged, his mother said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Vice President Joe Biden will visit Serbia and Kosovo next week, the White House said on Tuesday.
A White House statement announcing the Aug. 15-17 Balkan tour said Biden would hold meetings with each country's president and prime minister, but did not say what subjects would be discussed.
The United States last month transferred two inmates from the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to Serbia. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry thanked Serbia for what he called a "significant humanitarian gesture."
Kerry visited Serbia and Kosovo in December. His stop in Kosovo underscored Western concern over the slow pace of progress 16 years after a U.S.-led NATO air war set the former Serbian province on the road to independence.
Kosovo, a mainly Muslim but secular and staunchly pro-American country, declared independence in 2008.
TORONTO (Reuters) - A lion that bit a Canadian zoo keeper on Monday and fractured one of her vertebrae will not be killed and will stay at the zoo where the public can view it, a zoo official said on Tuesday.
The worker at the Granby Zoo east of Montreal was hospitalized and expected to make a full recovery after surgery on Monday night, Director General Paul Gosselin told reporters at a news conference.
"There was no impact on the respiratory system," he said. "There was only minor impact in the backbone, and when I say minor, it was like a bone chip only." The zoo withheld the woman's name.
Gosselin said the zoo keeper had been bitten in the back after she ended up alone with the lioness, which he said should not have happened. He attributed the incident, which occurred during feeding time, to human error but he did not elaborate.
Gosselin identified the lion as Kao, a 14-year-old that was born at the zoo.
"There can be a form of aggression over her territory ..." Gosselin said, adding that the lion was not acting out of character during the incident.
Police have said the investigation would be handled by Quebec's workplace safety board. The board could not be reached for comment.
In May, a 4-year-old boy fell into a gorilla's enclosure at the Cincinnati Zoo in Ohio. Zoo officials shot dead a 17-year-old critically endangered western lowland gorilla named Harambe after dragged the child.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United Nations Security Council has been unable to condemn the launch of a missile by North Korea that landed near Japan because China wanted the statement to oppose the planned deployment of a U.S. anti-missile defense system in South Korea.
North Korea launched a ballistic missile last Wednesday that landed in or near Japanese-controlled waters for the first time, the latest in a series of launches by the isolated country in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions.
The 15-member council held a closed-door meeting on the same day, but has been unable to agree on a U.S.-drafted statement to condemn the launch, which was almost identical to two previous statements issued by the council on North Korea (DPRK).
China proposed that the statement also say "all relevant parties shall avoid taking any actions which could provoke each other and escalate tensions, and shall not deploy any new anti-ballistic missile stronghold in Northeast Asia with an excuse of dealing with threats of the DPRK nuclear and missile programs."
Beijing has said Washington's decision last month to deploy a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system would only worsen tensions on the Korean peninsula.
China's U.N. mission also did not want the statement to express concern that the missile landed near Japan, telling council diplomats in an email, seen by Reuters: "We believe that the response of the council is based on violation of Security Council resolutions, not the place where the missile impacted."
Japan and the United States said they could not accept the proposed changes to the draft by China and on Tuesday dropped the bid for a Security Council statement.
"To propose that this council should criticize purely defensive steps that states have taken to protect their people from the DPRK's clear and repeated ballistic missile threats ... would be manifestly inappropriate and would send entirely the wrong message to the DPRK," the U.S. mission to the United Nations told council diplomats in an email.
After the Security Council meeting last Wednesday, U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power rejected suggestions the decision to deploy the anti-missile defense system in South Korea had provoked ballistic missile tests by North Korea.
North Korea has been under U.N. sanctions since 2006. In March, the Security Council imposed harsh new sanctions on the country in response to North Korea's fourth nuclear test in January and the launch of a long-range rocket in February. 
ROME (Reuters) - Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said on Tuesday it had been a mistake to personalise a referendum, due to be held later this year, in which he originally promised to resign if he failed to convince voters to support the need for constitutional change.
Political uncertainty linked to the vote on proposals Renzi says will bring stability after 70 years of revolving-door government has added to concerns about fragility in the euro zone's third-largest economy.
"I made a mistake personalising it too much," Renzi told party supporters at an event in Modena, northern Italy. "This is not one person's reform, this is the reform Italy needs."
No government has completed a full term in Italy since World War Two, making it difficult to reform an economy whose debt is second in the euro zone only to Greece's as a proportion of output, which has itself has sputtered for decades.
Renzi wants to do away with a parliamentary system in which the upper and lower houses have equal powers, effectively abolishing the Senate as an elected chamber and sharply reducing its ability to veto legislation.
The Senate has the ability to bring down governments by withdrawing its confidence and advocates of the reform say the proposed changes will stabilise government and speed up lawmaking.
Opponents fear the removal of democratic checks and balances and over-centralisation of power.
Polls have shown the "Yes" and "No" camps almost neck-and-neck, and many voters undecided ahead of the day of reckoning, which will likely fall between October and December this year.
Credit ratings agency DBRS cited uncertainty around the referendum when it placed Italy under review last week, raising the prospect of higher funding costs for banks already strangled by 360 billion euros (308  billion pounds) of bad loans.
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey (Reuters) - Kurdish militants killed two soldiers and wounded two others in a firefight on Tuesday in Turkey's strife-ridden southeast, security sources said.
Members of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) opened fire on the soldiers in the countryside outside the town of Kulp in Diyarbakir province, they said. Reinforcements had been deployed to the area to pursue a group of guerrillas.
The Diyarbakir governorate earlier in the day declared round-the-clock curfews in 13 villages near Kulp and two other towns in the mainly Kurdish province.
Security forces use the curfews to stage operations to root out fighters from the PKK, listed as terrorists by Turkey, the United States and European Union, since July 2015, when a ceasefire collapsed and a three-decade conflict reignited.
Thousands of militants and hundreds of soldiers and police have been killed since. Rights groups have said about 400 civilians have also died. The death toll from the start of the insurgency in 1984 stands at more than 40,000.
(Reuters) - Republican Donald Trump, a former reality TV star, has yet to spend a dime on television advertising for his White House campaign against Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, who has spent $52 million (40 million pounds), NBC News said on Tuesday.
Adding the money laid out by outside groups supporting the candidates, the Clinton camp has spent $91 million on ads versus $8 million by Trump and his supporters, NBC News said.
"Nearly $100 million has been spent on general-election TV advertisements in the presidential race since the primary season ended, but Donald Trump's campaign still hasn't spent a single cent on one of them," it said.
One group supporting Trump - the Rebuilding America Now PAC led by Florida Governor Rick Scott - said it was rolling out an anti-Clinton ad on cable and local television stations in Ohio, Florida and North Carolina this week.
While the New York businessman has not bought ads on ABC, CBS or NBC, which aired his reality show "The Apprentice," he has successfully used social media to reach the masses.
He frequently posts to his Facebook page and on Twitter, and posts in turn are liked and shared countless times, earning Trump a free form of advertising.
A study by media analytics firm mediaQuant placing monetary values on social media mentions estimates Trump is benefiting from about $2 billion in free media so far. That figure is expected to rise to $5 billion by the Nov. 8 election.
Clinton, too, has made gains in social media with 72 million mentions in July, pulling up with Trump in earned media after trailing him for the last eight months, mediaQuant said.
The former secretary of state led Trump by more than 7 percentage points in a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released on Tuesday.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Egypt's parliament on Tuesday set prison sentences to between three and 10 years in jail and fines to up to 5 million pounds ($563,000) for traders selling foreign currency on the black market.
The central bank has in recent weeks revoked the licenses of dozens of foreign exchange offices that it says were selling dollars at rates far wide of the official one.
But the gap between the official and black market rates continues to widen after a March devaluation failed to ease an acute dollar shortage.
"Egypt currency exchange bureaus are like cancer and I call on parliamentarians to draft a legislation that abolishes and eliminates them completely," parliament speaker Ali Abdelaal said.
While one dollar cost 8.78 pounds at the central bank's auction on Tuesday, a dollar shortage in the economy meant black market dealers were charging 12.65 pounds per dollar, up from last week's range of 12.20-12.50.
Egypt has struggled to mend the economy since the 2011 uprising that toppled President Hosni Mubarak scared away tourists and investors - vital sources of the foreign currency it needs to import everything from fuel to food.
Traders say the crackdown has exacerbated the crisis, prompting people with dollars to shun the official financial system, putting more pressure on the pound, with potentially dire consequences for inflation, confidence and economic growth.
Egypt's net foreign reserves fell have more than halved since 2011, to $15.536 billion at the end of July.
Egypt is in negotiations with the IMF for a $12 billion three-year lending programme that it hopes will plug a funding gap, restore market confidence and lure investment that could help ease the currency crunch.
(Story refiled to change sentences in lead)
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department, commenting on charges in the Turkish press that a Washington think tank was behind last month's failed coup in Turkey, said on Tuesday such inflammatory rhetoric is not helpful.
"This sort of conspiracy theory, inflammatory rhetoric ... is absolutely not helpful," State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau told a briefing when asked about charges in the Turkish press that the Woodrow Wilson Center think tank was behind the failed coup.
"We have certainly spoken to our Turkish counterparts on unhelpful rhetoric," she added.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn said on CNBC on Tuesday that Donald Trump is "right on about the economy" and said "the Archie Bunker of the world" will vote for the Republican presidential candidate.
Archie Bunker, a fictional conservative blue-collar worker from the New York City borough of Queens, was the main character in the 1970s television comedy "All in the Family."
Icahn praised Trump's economic plan a day after the New York real estate developer unveiled it in a speech in Detroit. Trump proposed sweeping tax breaks, cuts to federal regulations and a revival of the stalled Keystone XL project.
Bunker has been described as the show's "lovable bigot," but Icahn said there was no bad intention in comparing middle-class voters to the character.
"Any middle-class worker, you know, 'the Archie Bunker of the world' - that was a great show, I used to watch it - those guys are going to vote for him because those are smart guys," Icahn said.
"They know they are getting screwed, and that is what I think will happen," Icahn said in an apparent reference to the decline in U.S. manufacturing, a theme of Trump's.
"Archie Bunker is a middle-class guy, somewhat educated even, that doesn't know where his next check is coming to send his son or daughter to school, doesn't know if he's going to keep his job. ... Why the hell should he vote for a system that is not giving him a good-paying job?" Icahn said.
Icahn echoed his remarks on CNBC on Twitter, saying, "Trump is right on about our economy. A capitalistic system cannot exist if government is at war with business. CEOs rightly so are afraid to invest in new equipment, etc. to make our manufacturing competitive.
"It is no surprise that today it was announced growth in productivity was down for the 3rd straight quarter and is at an all-time low. Our workers cannot be productive with 'worn out tools'."
The Labor Department reported that U.S. nonfarm productivity unexpectedly fell in the second quarter, pointing to sustained weakness in the economy.
Trump's speech came after a week of falls in opinion polls and clashes with the family of a fallen U.S. Muslim soldier and fellow Republican leaders. Icahn said he did not defend Trump's remarks about the family of soldier Humayun Khan, calling them a "mistake. People make mistakes."
Asked by CNBC why Icahn was not named to Trump's group of economic advisers, Icahn said he wanted to focus on a new Super PAC.
Last week, Icahn's general counsel, Jesse Lynn, told Reuters that Icahn turned down an invitation to join the group because the investor is considering funding a Super PAC focused on regulatory reform. It would be Icahn's second Super PAC.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said it expected to sign an investment agreement with a leading Turkish holding company on Tuesday during Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's  visit to Russia.
Erdogan is scheduled to hold talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday afternoon to seal a rapprochement after months of tensions over the downing of a Russian jet by the Turkish military in November. The Syria conflict, trade, energy and the possible resumption of Russian charter flights to Turkey are on the agenda.
RDIF gave no further details, saying only that the planned agreement would generate joint investments worth several hundred million dollars in a wide range of industries.
RDIF, with $10 billion of reserve capital, was created in 2010 to co-invest alongside foreign firms to give them greater comfort in Russia's uncertain business environment.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - The European Union should end accession negotiations with Turkey completely due to President Tayyip Erdogan's "undemocratic initiatives" and his support for reintroducing the death penalty, Denmark's government party said on Tuesday.
"The red line is crossed for what should be a minimum for an EU candidate country," foreign policy spokesman for the Liberal Party, Michael Aastrup Jensen, told Reuters.
"It should lead not only to a pause in the negotiations but to a downright stop, and a removal of Turkey from the list of candidate countries," he said.
The foreign ministry did not immediately respond to Reuters' requests for comments.
On Sunday, Austria's foreign minister threatened to block EU negotiations with Turkey.
ST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - Russia will phase out sanctions against Turkey step-by-step but the priority is to bring bilateral ties between the two countries to their pre-crisis level, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday.
Putin, after meeting with President Tayyip Erdogan, said the talks will have an important bearing on the future of Russia-Turkish relations.
ST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday Turkey and Russia were determined to normalise ties and he believed relations between the two countries had strengthened and become more resistant to crisis.
Speaking at a news conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Erdogan said their talks had been "comprehensive and beneficial" and that Putin's phone call to him after last month's failed coup "meant a lot psychologically".
ST PETERSBURG (Reuters) - Russia and Turkey have a common goal of resolving the crisis in Syria and it is possible to resolve differences on how to handle it, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday.
Speaking after his meeting with Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan, Putin said that Russia's views on Syria have not always coincided with those of Turkey but the two states agreed to talk further and seek solutions.
"I think it is possible to align our views and approaches," Putin told reporters.
ST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - Turkey and Russia are reinstating their annual bilateral trade target of $100 billion, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday.
He also told a joint news conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin that talks regarding the resumption of charter flights from Russia to Turkey will be accelerated.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's top Nazi hunter has identified four men and four women suspected of serving as guards, secretaries and telephone operators at a concentration camp near Gdansk, and prosecutors will examine if they can be charged as accomplices to murder.
Jens Rommel, the head of Germany's Central Office for the Investigation of Nazi Crimes in Ludwigsburg, told news agency DPA the eight cases of elderly suspects alive and in Germany was forwarded to prosecutors across the country.
The eight suspects had worked at the Nazis' Stutthoff concentration camp near what is now Gdansk in Poland. The office in Ludwigsburg does not prosecute cases itself but instead has been collecting information for state prosecutors for decades.
Ageing suspects, most of whom deny guilt, are growing frail more than 70 years after the end of World War Two, making the race to prosecute them all the more pressing.
"Germany's commitment to identifying more former Nazi camp guards is encouraging," Ronald Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress, said in a statement.
"Given the vast system of concentration and extermination camps put in place by the Nazis, and the number of personnel needed to run and guard these sites, it comes as no surprise that a few of these perpetrators are still alive, even today."
Germany's state justice ministers last year gave Rommel's office up to 10 more years to continue its investigative work, before it is turned into a documentation centre.
The 2011 conviction of Sobibor death camp guard John Demjanjuk gave the office in Ludwigsburg new legal territory to explore. It was the first time that involvement in a death camp was seen as sufficient grounds for culpability even without proof of a specific crime.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Satellite photographs taken in late July show China appears to have built reinforced aircraft hangars on its holdings in disputed South China Sea islands, a Washington-based research group said.
The hangars on Fiery Cross, Subi and Mischief Reefs in the Spratly islands have room for any fighter jet in the Chinese air force, the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) said in a report on the photographs.
The images have emerged about a month after an international court in The Hague ruled against China's claims in the resource-rich area, a decision rejected by Beijing. China claims most of the South China Sea, through which $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei have overlapping claims.
The United States has urged China and other claimants not to militarize their holdings in the South China Sea.
CSIS said that apart from a brief visit to Fiery Cross Reef by a military transport plane earlier in the year, "there is no evidence that Beijing has deployed military aircraft to these outposts."
The rapid construction of the hangars, however, "indicates that this is likely to change."
A U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was unlikely the hangers would be used for civilian purposes.
"It's not like the hangers are for mail planes, they are likely for jets," the official said.
The official added, however, that the Chinese move was seen as skirting around the line rather than crossing it, and there would be increased concern if China actually moved in military aircraft and started using a reef as a forward operating base.
China has repeatedly denied doing so and has in turn criticized U.S. patrols and exercises for ramping up tensions.
"China has indisputable sovereignty over the Spratly islands and nearby waters," China's Defence Ministry said in a faxed response to a request for comment on Tuesday.
"China has said many times, construction on the Spratly islands and reefs is multipurpose, mixed, and with the exception of necessary military defensive requirements, are more for serving all forms of civil needs."
The hangars all show signs of structural strengthening, CSIS said. The new images were first reported by the New York Times.
Other facilities including unidentified towers and hexagonal structures have also been built on the islets in recent months, CSIS said.
Ties around the region have been strained in the lead-up to and since The Hague ruling.
China has sent bombers and fighter jets on combat patrols near the contested South China Sea islands, state media reported on Saturday. Japan has complained about what it has said were multiple intrusions into its territorial waters around another group of islands in the East China Sea.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department has approved the potential sale of more than 130 Abrams battle tanks, 20 armoured recovery vehicles and other equipment, worth about $1.15 billion (£885.64 million), to Saudi Arabia, the Pentagon said on Tuesday.
The approval for land force equipment comes at a time when Saudi Arabia is leading a military coalition in support of Yemeni forces loyal to the exiled government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi who are trying to oust Iran-allied Houthi forces from the capital, Sanaa. The coalition's air strikes have come under criticism from rights groups for the deaths of civilians.
The U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which oversees foreign arms sales, said that General Dynamics will be the principal contractor for the sale, adding it would  contribute to U.S. national security by improving the security of a regional partner.
"This sale will increase the Royal Saudi Land Force’s (RSLF) interoperability with U.S. forces and conveys U.S. commitment to Saudi Arabia's security and armed forces modernization," the agency said in a notice to lawmakers posted on its website.
Lawmakers have 30 days to block the sale, although such action is rare.
Saudi Arabia and its mostly Gulf Arab allies intervened in Yemen's civil war in March 2015 after the Houthi movement had pushed the Hadi administration into exile in Saudi Arabia.
On Tuesday the Saudi-led military coalition conducted air strikes on Sanaa for the first time in five months, residents said, after U.N.-backed peace talks to end the conflict broke down over the weekend.]
Medics said nine civilians were killed in a strike on a potato chip factory in the Nahda district of the capital.
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch called on the United Nations General Assembly in June to suspend Saudi Arabia from the U.N. Human Rights Council until the military coalition stops killing civilians in Yemen.
KABUL (Reuters) - American soldiers helping Afghan troops fight Islamic State in Afghanistan were forced to abandon equipment and weapons when their position came under fire, a U.S. military official said on Tuesday.
Islamic State fighters have circulated photographs of a rocket launcher, grenades, ammunition, identification cards, an encrypted radio and other equipment that they said they had seized.
U.S. military spokesman General Charles Cleveland said the loss had happened during fighting in Nangarhar, a province in eastern Afghanistan, in July in which at least five special forces soldiers were wounded, but he denied that any American positions were overrun.
"We have been able to determine that the I.D. card and most of the pictured equipment was lost during recent operations in southern Nangarhar," he said in a statement.
Cleveland said a location set up to deal with casualties - a routine step in any operation - had come under "effective enemy fire" and the soldiers moved to a safer position.
"In the course of moving the (casualty collection point) to a safe location, some equipment was left behind," he said. 
Despite the sensitive nature of some of the items, Cleveland said he did not expect there would be "any measurable operational impact" from the loss.
"For understandable reasons, the lives of soldiers were not put at risk to recover the equipment," he said.
At the time, military officials said five soldiers were wounded by small arms fire and shrapnel during fighting that spanned July 24 and 25.
Two of the wounded returned to duty and the three others were expected to make a full recovery, Army General John Nicholson said in July.
U.S. troops and aircraft have been taking a more active role against Islamic State after President Barack Obama authorised more military support for the Afghan government.
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - Talks to secure a lasting ceasefire in Sudan's three war-ravaged regions began on Tuesday, a day after an opposition coalition signed on to a roadmap for ending hostilities and achieving political reconciliation.
There has been fighting between the Sudanese army and rebels in the southern regions of Kordofan and Blue Nile since 2011, when adjacent South Sudan declared independence. Conflict in Darfur began in 2003 when mainly non-Arab tribes took up arms against the Arab-led government based in the capital Khartoum.
The roadmap, brokered by the African Union, marks the first time the country's major opposition groups have signed a deal  with the government since regional fighting reignited in 2011.
The accord spells out a process for reaching a permanent ceasefire, endorses a national dialogue between the government and opposition rebel and political groups, and includes provisions for immediate humanitarian assistance.
Although violence has eased in recent years, an intermittent insurgency has continued. At least 130,000 people have fled fighting in the central Jebel Marra area of Darfur since mid-January alone.
Khartoum signed the AU plan in March, but opposition groups, many of which call for the overthrow of veteran President Omar al-Bashir, refused at the time to follow suit.
"We signed yesterday in Addis Ababa after the African intermediary agreed to include our demands in the agreement,"  Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) spokesman Jibril Bilal said.
The Darfur leader was referring to a clause ensuring preliminary meetings in the Ethiopian capital among all political groups before a national dialogue in Khartoum.
"The signing of the roadmap is a positive step, but the more complex stage will come with talks revolving around a ceasefire and a political solution," said Bilal.
Signatories to the roadmap included many of the country's most prominent opposition and rebel groups, from JEM and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-North) to the Umma Party, the largest opposition party.
"We welcome the opposition signing of the roadmap and today the government begins to engage in negotiations with armed rebels over a ceasefire.. .We are optimistic... It's important that a ceasefire is reached to stop the war," government spokesman Ahmed Bilal said.
Holdouts to the roadmap remain, however, with the Sudan Liberation Movement, a major rebel force in Darfur, and the country's communist party refusing to sign.
"We are ready to reach necessary political solutions for the country, but this is tied to the will and desire of the other side, the government, for peaceful solutions," JEM's Bilal said.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - A Chinese tour guide stabbed and killed a tourist who was visiting Kenya's famed Maasai Mara Game Reserve after an argument over the seating arrangement for dinner, police and a lodge manager said on Tuesday.
John Kiruti, manager of Keekorok Lodge, which is within the park, said the woman, also a Chinese citizen, sustained serious chest injuries in the incident late on Monday and died as she was being transferred to another tourist camp for treatment. Her husband sustained serious stomach injuries.
"The tour guide who had brought three clients from his country for two nights differed with the couple ... over the sitting arrangement at dinner time," Kiruti said.
"After a brief exchange of words, he drew a knife and stabbed the two, fatally injuring the woman and injuring her husband.”
Kiruti said the couple's two children, aged nine and 12 years old, watched as the incident took place.
"The hotel staff rushed to restrain the guide. The kids are still in shock. We making plans to take them to Nairobi," he said.
Police later arrested the guide.
"We are holding him until investigations are over. It was a sad incident that is deeply regretted," Narok County Police Commander Abdi Galgalo said.
GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations urged the Maldives on Tuesday not to carry out planned executions for convicts on death row and to uphold a moratorium the Indian Ocean archipelago had respected for decades.
The country has not executed anyone since 1954 as previous presidents had all commuted any death sentences handed down, while leaving capital punishment legal. But the Supreme Court last month said its decisions on death sentences are final, overruling a High Court stay order on executions.
The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said there have been a number of worrying developments concerning capital punishment in the Maldives since November.
"It is deeply regrettable that a series of steps have been taken to resume executions in the country,” he said in a statement. Maldives government officials were not immediately available for comments.
President Abdulla Yameen, who defends capital punishment as part of the Islamic law he wants to implement in the majority Muslim country, is under international pressure to uphold the rule of law.
His administration has jailed several opponents - including Mohamed Nasheed, the country's first democratically elected president - after hasty trials criticised by rights groups.
Former Maldives foreign minister Dunya Maumoon quit in July in protest against the government's support for capital punishment, which it reiterated in May by announcing it would go ahead with executions.
Mona Rishmawi, chief of the rule of law branch at the U.N. human rights office, said there are 17 people currently on death row in the Maldives. In three cases, the U.N. office is "very worried" because of concerns over the fairness of the trials.
"What happened is that last year, they entered an item in the budget to allow for execution chambers. So we know that they are basically making it possible and they are ready to execute," Rishmawi told reporters.
Rishmawi said the U.N. had serious concerns over access to a fair trial in the Maldives, noting that former president Nasheed was not allowed to present his defence in court in 2015 when he was tried on terrorism charges for having ordered the arrest of a judge.
Nasheed, who was president from 2008 until he stepped down amid protests in 2012, was granted political asylum in the United Kingdom when he was allowed to go there for surgery in January of this year.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey will stop implementing an agreement with the European Union to stem the flow of migrants into the bloc if the EU does not provide a clear date to grant visa-free travel to Turks, EU Affairs Minister Omer Celik said on Tuesday.
In an interview with Turkey's Haberturk television, Celik said asking Turkey to change its terrorism laws, a key demand from the EU to finalise visa-free travel, would mean endangering Europe's own security.
Though much-criticised by rights advocates, EU's migrant deal with Turkey helped sharply cut the number of refugees and migrants reaching European shores, giving EU politicians breathing space after around 1.3 million people reached the continent last year.
ST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday that Turkey was entering a "very different period" in relations with Russia, and that solidarity between the two countries would help the resolution of regional problems.
Speaking in St. Petersburg ahead of a meeting with Vladimir Putin, Erdogan thanked his Russian counterpart for his telephone call after a failed military coup on July 15, saying it "brought our people great happiness".
Erdogan's trip to Russia comes as Turkey's relations with Europe and the United States are strained by what Ankara sees as Western concern over the abortive coup, in which more than 240 people were killed.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey on Tuesday warned of rising anti-American sentiment and risks to a migrant deal with the European Union, ramping up the rhetoric in the face of Western alarm over the scale of purges in state institutions since last month's failed coup.
President Tayyip Erdogan, who was in Russia on Tuesday for talks with Vladimir Putin on improving ties, has sharply criticized the United States and the EU for what he says is a lack of solidarity with Turkey over the July 15 coup and of caring more for the rights of the suspected plotters.
Erdogan blames Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim cleric who has lived in self-imposed exile in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania since 1999, and his followers for the attempted putsch, in which more than 240 people were killed and nearly 2,200 wounded.
Turkey has launched a series of mass purges of suspected Gulen supporters in its armed forces, other state institutions, universities, schools and the media since the abortive coup, prompting Western worries for the stability of a key NATO ally.
Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said anti-American feeling among Turks was on the rise and could only be calmed by the United States extraditing Gulen, who denies any involvement in the coup and has condemned it.
"There is a serious anti-American feeling in Turkey, and this is turning into hatred," Bozdag said in an interview with state-run Anadolu Agency, broadcast live on Turkish television channels. "It is in the hands of the United States to stop this anti-American feeling leading to hatred."
Responding to Turkey's demand for Gulen's extradition, U.S. President Barack Obama has said Ankara must first provide clear evidence of wrongdoing. Last week a State Department spokesman said Washington was evaluating new documents it had received.
"Whether the U.S. extradites Gulen or not this will be a political decision," Bozdag said. "If he is not extradited, Turkey will have been sacrificed for a terrorist."
Turkey's relations with the EU, which it hopes to join, have also come under heavy pressure since the abortive coup and on Tuesday Denmark's government party said Ankara's accession talks should end due to what it called Erdogan's "undemocratic initiatives" and his support for reintroducing the death penalty.
Erdogan has said he would approve the return of capital punishment if Turkey's parliament backed it.
On Sunday Austria's foreign minister threatened to block EU negotiations with Turkey. But Germany, the EU's most powerful member, has dismissed such demands, stressing Turkey's geopolitical, economic and military importance.
Turkey's EU Affairs Minister Omer Celik said on Tuesday Ankara would stop implementing a deal with Brussels to stem the flow of migrants into the EU if the bloc does not provide a clear date to grant visa-free travel to Turks visiting Europe.
In an interview with Haberturk television, Celik said asking Turkey to change its terrorism laws, a key demand from the EU to finalize the visa-free travel, would mean endangering Europe's own security. He gave no details.
Though criticized by rights advocates, the EU's deal with Turkey has helped to sharply cut the number of refugees and migrants reaching European shores, giving EU politicians breathing space after around 1.3 million people reached the continent last year.
In contrast to the chill in Turkey's ties with the West, a Turkish official described the mood at Erdogan's talks in St Petersburg with President Putin on Tuesday as "very positive".
Putin said he hoped Erdogan would be able to restore order in Turkey after the coup and stressed his wish to restore good bilateral relations, which were harmed by Turkey's downing of a Russian fighter jet near the Syrian border last November.
Erdogan hailed the start of "a very different period" in relations between Turkey and Russia, historic foes which have nevertheless built strong trade, energy and tourism ties in the post-Soviet era.
However, Turkish officials have said Erdogan's visit to Russia is not intended to signal a fundamental shift in Ankara's geopolitical stance.
Turkey hosts American troops and warplanes at its Incirlik Air Base, an important staging area for the U.S.-led fight against Islamic State militants in neighboring Iraq and Syria.
A recent opinion poll showed two thirds of Turks agree with their president that Gulen was behind the coup plot. Turkey has been holding almost daily mass rallies since July 15 in support of democracy and the government and against the plotters.
The 75-year-old Gulen built up a network of schools, charities and businesses in Turkey and abroad over decades. He has accused Erdogan of using the coup to amass greater power, echoing concerns expressed in some Western capitals.
Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim on Tuesday repeated a pledge to bring Gulen back to Turkey.
"That terrorist leader will come to Turkey and pay for what he did," Yildirim told a meeting of his ruling Islamist-rooted AK Party in parliament. "That religious, impudent, lying, bloody murdering nothing will be surely held accountable."
Authorities have suspended, detained or put under investigation tens of thousands of people in the armed forces, the judiciary, civil service and elsewhere since the coup, in which a faction of the military commandeered warplanes, helicopters and tanks in an attempt to topple the government.
On Tuesday Bozdag put the number of people now formally arrested awaiting trial at 16,000, adding that a further 6,000 detainees were still being processed. Another 7,668 people are under investigation but have not been detained, he said.
Since the abortive putsch, pro-government papers have been awash with conspiracy theories accusing the United States and the CIA of being the masterminds. Turkish officials privately said such reports do not reflect Ankara's formal stance.
Turkish authorities have said the country's intelligence service has cracked into several smartphone messaging apps that Gulen's followers used to communicate with each other in the years ahead of the coup attempt and was able to trace tens of thousands of people from the group.
A senior Turkish official said Turkey's intelligence agency had identified at least 56,000 operatives of Gulen's network after it cracked a little-known smartphone messaging app called ByLock, which the group had begun using in 2014. By this year, Turkish intelligence were able to map their network.
"Our assessment is that 150,000 unique operatives used ByLock to communicate with others," the official said.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenya's president said on Tuesday he would seek re-election next year and transform his coalition of small parties into one party to shore up his power base, a move aimed at seeing off another likely challenge by the opposition leader.
President Uhuru Kenyatta narrowly won election in 2013 in east Africa's biggest economy. At the time, he and deputy William Ruto faced international prosecution for crimes against humanity over deadly violence after 2007's disputed election but the charges - which they denied - were later dropped.
Kenyatta - a member of one of Kenya's richest families and the son of its first president - said he would launch the Jubilee Party, merging his National Alliance with Ruto's National Republican Party and at least 10 other coalition parties, in a month's time.
The move anticipates another potential face-off with opposition leader Raila Odinga, expected to be the main opposition challenger as he was in the votes of 2013 and 2007.
"I am staking my legacy on political unity and stability," Kenyatta said in a nationally televised address.
Odinga told a media conference that he was "not scared" by the new party. His Coalition for Reforms and Democracy is made up of a number of smaller political parties.
"I have gone around the country and met citizens who are dissatisfied with Jubilee. They will show that at the ballot," said Odinga.
The next presidential and parliamentary elections will be held on Aug. 8 next year.
Kenyatta and Ruto were accused by the International Criminal Court of fomenting violence that killed 1,200 people in the aftermath of the 2007 election. Both denied wrongdoing and the Hague-based court abandoned the case last year.
Analysts said Kenyatta's new party was typical of political realignments seen in Kenya before every election.
"People who are like-minded are coming together to give a new vehicle to the president and his deputy," Macharia Munene, professor of international relations at USIU-Africa, said.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe is trying to improve accommodation for the military, President Robert Mugabe said on Tuesday, in a bid to retain its support despite recent pay delays as the government goes through its tightest cash squeeze in seven years.
The military has underpinned 92-year-old Mugabe's often controversial rule over the southern African nation since it won independence from Britain in 1980.
But mounting economic woes have seen his government fail to pay soldiers, police and the other public workers who make up the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) on time in the last few months.
Mugabe did not comment on the pay delays in a speech to mark ZDF Day, but he said the forces had recently bought a new fleet of vehicles to carry troops, cars for its staff and buses to transport personnel to work.
"Efforts are still under way to provide decent accommodation to members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces," he said, without giving details.
Analysts say the pay delays could stoke political tension in a nation plagued by drought, a drop in mineral prices and chronic cash shortages - all of which has led to recent unrest against the ageing leader.
Zimbabwe has witnessed anti-government protests including violent clashes between the police and taxi drivers on July 4, while the biggest strike in a decade shut down businesses countrywide two days later.
Nevertheless, ZDF Commander General Constantino Chiwenga told reporters from the state-owned media that the force was fully behind the leadership of Mugabe, who last month received a stinging rebuke from his former war-veteran allies.
Chiwenga described as "nonsense" a stream of local private media reports that he harboured political ambitions and supported Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa to take over from Mugabe.
Divisions have emerged within the ruling ZANU-PF party as senior officials position for a post-Mugabe era, with two factions emerging, one seen supporting Mnangagwa and another rallying behind Mugabe's wife Grace.
"The African proverb which says 'There is no sun which rises before another sets' holds true, because no nation can ever have two leaders," Chiwenga said.
"The ZDF will never accept any unconstitutional change of Government and we stand firm and unequivocal by the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe."
(Reuters) - When Hewlett Packard Enterprise CEO Meg Whitman announced last week that she wouldn't vote for her party's presidential nominee, Donald Trump, she pledged to raise money for the Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, and to urge like-minded Republicans to follow suit.
She won’t have to talk her fellow tech industry conservatives into spurning Trump: They already have. His campaign has pulled in less than 6 percent of what Republican nominee Mitt Romney had raised from tech donors by this point in the 2012 race.
But raising money for Clinton may prove difficult. While the Democrat has raised 25 times more than Trump from tech donors so far, she has drawn less than half of what President Barack Obama had raised from tech employees by this point four years ago, and less than Bernie Sanders, her opponent in the Democratic primary, collected before he left the race.
Tech industry employees – long a reliable source of presidential donations, especially for Democrats – have refused to open their wallets for Trump, and they’ve been stingier than usual with Clinton, too, according to an analysis performed for Reuters by Crowdpac, a nonpartisan political crowdfunding startup that analyzes campaign contribution data.
Trump and Clinton together reported having received $3.5 million from tech workers as of June 30, compared with $11 million donated to President Barack Obama and his Republican rival Mitt Romney through June 2012, according to the Crowdpac analysis. In 2008, more than $8.3 million in tech donations had gone to Obama and McCain by June 30.
For a graphic tracking contributions from tech workers in the last three elections, see: tmsnrt.rs/2b3nEuk
The Trump campaign did not respond to requests for comment on this story. The Clinton campaign asked for the methodology of the Crowdpac analysis but did not comment on its findings.
To quantify the tech industry's political giving, Crowdpac tallied contributions of more than $200 - the Federal Election Commission's reporting threshold - from donors who listed technology companies as their employers, as well as individuals who work in related roles, such as software engineers and venture capitalists. Contributions to campaigns, Super PACs and joint fundraising committees were included.
The analysis may have missed people who work at small technology companies not yet recognized by Crowdpac, as well as individuals who have given less than $200.
Technology firms lobby the government on a range of issues, from privacy and encryption to immigration and trade, and they have a strong interest in who sits in the Oval Office. But this year, campaign finance records and interviews with more than two dozen people in the industry suggest that many would-be donors in Silicon Valley remain unwashed by either candidate.
Matt McIlwain, managing director of Madrona Venture Group, gave money to Romney in 2011 and to Republican Marco Rubio in year's presidential primary election. But he won't support either Trump or Clinton in the general election.
“Candidates need to have that embrace of innovation and articulate how it is a road for anybody in our society,” he said. “I’m not inspired by either of the major party candidates.”
Democrats consistently draw more tech money than Republicans, but the giving is unusually lopsided this year. Trump has raised a mere $128,000 from 238 tech donors so far.
Clinton, by contrast, has raised $3.4 million from 2,976 individuals in the industry, according to Crowdpac's analysis.
At this point in 2012, Romney had raised $2.3 million and Obama had raised $8.8 million.
Silicon Valley Republicans say Trump's paltry donation totals are no surprise given his public statements attacking the tech industry.
Earlier this year, Trump called for a boycott of Apple products after the company stopped cooperating with federal law enforcement efforts to break into the password-protected iPhone of one attacker in the mass shooting in San Bernardino. Trump also accused Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos of orchestrating an online retail monopoly.
Trump's positions on limiting immigration and free trade run counter to some of the industry’s most basic interests.
For Clinton, having a long track record in politics is a liability with some donors in an industry that reveres innovation.
“She’s an incremental technocrat, and for people who are used to taking on the world, that is not very inspiring,” said Gregory Ferenstein, author of “The Age of Optimists,” a book about politics and Silicon Valley.
To be sure, Clinton has many friends in Silicon Valley, and she has had considerably more success than Trump in wooing deep-pocket donors in the industry.
Venture capitalist John Doerr, for example, has contributed $569,500 to the Clinton campaign and affiliate Super PACs and fundraising committees, and Zynga co-founder Mark Pincus has given $358,800, according to Crowdpac.
Many in the valley reason that backing Clinton is the surest way to thwart Trump.
"We want to make it clear what the risks are of a Trump presidency, but it’s much more energizing to get excited about a candidate,” Box Chief Executive Aaron Levie said in an interview.
Some of Obama’s biggest Silicon Valley backers have yet to give money in this race, including Pandora Media Chief Executive Tim Westergren, who had donated $74,100 to Obama and to fundraising committees and affiliated Super PACs by June 2012, and venture capitalist Vinod Khosla, who had given $35,000, according to a Crowdpac analysis of donations.
Reliable GOP donors, too, have held back. Tiger Global Management Founder Charles Coleman and venture capitalist Marc Andreessen - both of whom had given $102,500 to Romney and affiliated Super PACs and fundraising committees by June 2012 - had yet to donate by June 30. Andreessen has endorsed Clinton.
Westergren and Khosla did not respond to requests for comment; Coleman and Andreessen declined to comment.
Carrie Sheffield, founder of multimedia company Bold, typically votes for Republicans and donated to Romney, but she says she won't give to - or vote for - Trump.
“I don’t think that he’s fit for office," she said.
Both Clinton and Trump have also struggled to convert many donors who gave to their opponents in the primary.
Bernie Sanders raised far more in tech donations during the primary than Clinton, pulling in $6.2 million before leaving the primary race, most of it in small contributions.
In the Republican primary, Marco Rubio drew $5.3 million in tech donations, thanks to a handful of large gifts from top tech executives, including Oracle's Larry Ellison, Mark Hurd and Safra Catz.
Josh Smith, a Sanders donor who does not plan to vote in the presidential election, said he was troubled by Clinton's comments in a debate last year urging tech companies to work with law enforcement to prevent attacks.
The remarks left some in the industry feeling that Clinton would not protect their livelihoods and did not share their beliefs about "the sanctity of information,” said Smith, founder of Code Corps, which helps developers work on public software projects for social good.
Sanders donor Xiaohoa Michelle Ching said she will vote for Clinton, but has had trouble supporting a candidate who has been readying her path to the presidency for so long.
“I am not going to go out of my way, even with the threat of a Trump presidency,” said Ching, who is chief executive of Literator, an educational technology startup.
Ferenstein predicts that Silicon Valley donations to Clinton will pick up.
“You’ll see much more money from Silicon Valley flow to Clinton toward the end of the race," he predicted, "because people are scared of a President Trump.”
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - A sacked Malaysian deputy prime minister and critic of scandal-tainted Prime Minister Najib Razak registered a political party on Tuesday saying he wanted to offer ruling party members an alternative and to fight corruption.
The former minister, Muhyiddin Yassin, along with former premier Mahathir Mohamad, have been leading a campaign to unseat Najib after he was linked to a multi-billion dollar graft scandal at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB).
Najib has denied any wrongdoing and consolidated power within the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) party. The prime minister has also cracked down on dissent.
"As a former UMNO member, I know there are many who are unsatisfied about the current leadership, but they're not ready to say it out loud," Muhyiddin said after submitting registration documents in Putrajaya, Malaysia's administrative capital.
"So now, there is a new space for them."
UMNO has ruled Malaysia largely unchallenged since independence in 1957, with the support of the majority ethnic Malay community, though it fared poorly, losing the popular vote, in the last election in 2013.
Muhyiddin is expected to lead Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu), or United Malaysian People's Party, as its president, while Mahathir will serve as party chairman, an aide to Muhyiddin said.
Mahathir, Malaysia's longest-serving prime minister, had announced plans for the new party in July, after months of attacks against Najib's leadership and alleged graft and mismanagement at 1MDB.
The United States Department of Justice filed lawsuits last month to seize more than $1 billion in assets linked to 1MDB.
The Wall Street Journal has reported that more than $1 billion (£770.12 million) was diverted from 1MDB to Najib's personal bank accounts.
"We want to strengthen efforts in the fight against corruption and abuse of power, as well as uphold social justice and fair distribution of wealth," Muhyiddin said.
But political commentators have said the new party will likely have little impact as top UMNO members stand behind Najib.
Muhyiddin was sacked as deputy prime minister in July 2015, after criticising Najib's handling of the 1MDB scandal.
Nearly a year later, Najib announced an UMNO supreme council decision to expel Muhyiddin, along with Mahathir's son, Mukhriz Mahathir, from the party.
Mahathir quit UMNO in February, saying it was seen as "supporting corruption" under Najib's leadership.
Mahathir, 91, was hospitalised for treatment of a chest infection on Tuesday. The veteran politician, who was prime minister for 22 years until 2003, will be under observation for the next few days, an aide said.
BEIJING/TOKYO (Reuters) - As China diplomatically confronts the United States and South Korea over new missile defences and intensifies pressure on Japan at sea over disputed islets, Beijing is signalling it is prepared to stand its ground on two key regional fronts.
Mainland analysts see little immediate chance for an easing of tensions now roiling across Northeast Asia, saying a rising China is showing it is keen to shape its own battlefield despite fresh threats.
“This action is China saying to the world that it has the ability to fight two regional conflicts on its doorstep,” said Ni Lexiong, a naval expert at the Shanghai University of Political Science and Law. “If [Japan] is actively making provocations in our South China Sea, then in the East China Sea, on its doorway, it will face a little pressure,” Ni said.
Beijing's claims to much of the South China Sea were invalidated last month in an emphatic ruling by an arbitration court in The Hague in a case brought by rival claimant, the Philippines.
The region's deepening fault lines after the ruling were exposed at the weekend as a fleet of Chinese coast guard and fishing vessels sailed near Japanese-controlled islets in the East China Sea. Japan warned China on Tuesday ties were "deteriorating markedly".
Tokyo worries that Chinese control of the South China Sea, through which much of the oil it imports is shipped, threatens its national security and takes Beijing a step closer to extending its influence into the Western Pacific.
Japan has cranked up assistance recently to two countries who have territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea, the Philippines and Vietnam.
Japan's administration of the disputed islands it calls Senkaku, and China calls Diaoyu, puts them under the long-standing security treaty between Washington and Tokyo.
Kevin Maher, a Washington security consultant and a former head of the State Department's Office of Japan Affairs said he thinks China is trying to warn Japan not to interfere in the South China Sea after Tokyo strongly endorsed the Hague ruling.
China "wants to see how far they can push until they get pushed back," Maher said. "Their ultimate goal is hegemony in the South China Sea and the East China Sea."
At the same time, South Korea's presidential Blue House rebuked China for criticising Seoul's decision to deploy an advanced U.S. anti-missile defence system, urging Beijing to instead work harder to rein in North Korean nuclear and missile tests.
While China has grown increasingly irritated over North Korea's nuclear and missile tests, it vehemently opposes South Korea's decision to host a Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) unit with the U.S. military.
Beijing sees THAAD's radar system, capable of peering into China's military installations, as part of Washington's strategy of containment, with the  two powers clashing over China's possible militarisation of rocks and reefs in the disputed South China Sea.
Recent satellite photographs show China appears to have built aircraft hangars that could accommodate any fighter jet in its air force on artificial islands it is building on reefs in the South China Sea, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a Washington think tank.
THAAD's location was announced a day after The Hague court ruled against China's claims in sea, through which some $5 trillion of cargo passes annually. South Korea and the United States have said THAAD would only be used in defense against North Korean ballistic missiles.
Washington's alliances with Japan and South Korea are crucial to its strategic pivot to Asia but the three countries have been coordinating with China over the years in a flagging effort to curtail North Korea's nuclear ambitions.
North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test and has launched a series of missiles in recent months, the latest on Wednesday, when one ballistic missile that flew about 1,000 km (600 miles) landed near Japanese-controlled waters.
The economic stakes in the region are high as well: Japan, South Korea and China account for a quarter of the world's economy and tensions among them risk having a chilling effect on trade and investment at a time of slower growth.
Yet the strong economic ties and the stumbling diplomacy  could help defuse potential clashes.
"China has its own limits to where it can go," said Lee Tai-hwan, director of the China studies centre at the Sejong Institute near Seoul. "It can't simply stop complying with U.N. sanctions against North Korea. They don't want to leave a bad example in relations with neighbouring countries by doing something bad to South Korea."
JAKARTA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The Philippines has posted a record number of new HIV infections, prompting campaigners to call on authorities to step up efforts to battle the potentially deadly disease.
A total of 841 new cases were recorded in June, the highest ever monthly figure since the country's first reported case in 1984, according to the health department's latest statistics released this week.
Over 90 percent, or 777 cases, were transmitted through sexual contact, the majority of them among men who have sex with men. Injecting drug users accounted for 60 new cases and the remaining four were cases of mother-to-child transmission.
New cases of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) which can lead to AIDS have been rising in the Philippines, bucking the international trend which shows new infections falling.
"This is a cause of concern for us," Gerald Santos from Manila-based campaign group Project Red Ribbon told the Thomson Reuters Foundation on Tuesday.
"But to look at it with the glass half full, it also shows awareness is at an all-time high, meaning more people are aware of HIV and are getting tested."
However, he said the actual number of new infections could be higher, as stigma associated with HIV prevents at-risk group from getting tested.
"The government should double their efforts in spreading awareness about HIV before it is too late," added Santos, the group's treasurer.
The Philippines saw new infections double between 2001 and 2012, according to a U.N. AIDS agency (UNAIDS) report in 2013 which showed the epidemic was also expanding in Indonesia and Pakistan.
Increasing infections among injecting drug users sharing contaminated needles combined with low condom use and high fertility rates have raised concern over "downstream" HIV infections - when the virus spreads to people not typically at risk of HIV, like children who acquire the virus through mother-to-child transmission.
There have been 34,999 HIV cases in the Philippines since record-keeping started in 1984, with 83 percent diagnosed in the last five years, according to the health department.
Globally, some 36.7 million people are living with HIV, according to UNAIDS.
MANILA (Reuters) - The Philippines' Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into four judges who President Rodrigo Duterte linked to the  drug trade, a day after the chief justice criticised the president's name-and-shame campaign in his war on narcotics.
On Sunday, Duterte identified about 160 serving and former government officials, soldiers and police officers who he said were linked to the illegal drugs trade. Seven judges were on his  list.
Supreme Court spokesman Theodore Te said the court asked a retired judge to conduct a fact-finding investigation into "the alleged involvement of four incumbent judges", and to present a report in 30 days.
"The court today resolved to treat the speech of President Rodrigo Duterte as a complaint against the four judges," Te told a news conference in Manila, adding the four judges were given seven days to respond to the complaint.
"This is just for the administrative case since the Supreme Court does not have jurisdiction on criminal cases."
On Monday, Supreme Court chief justice Maria Lourdes Sereno complained about the revelation of the judges' names, reminding the president that only the court can discipline judges and other court officers.
Sereno said only four of the seven judges named by the president remained active.
One died eight years ago, another retired last month and a third was dismissed over a legal issue in 2007.
She said the court supported the government's war on drugs, sharing Duterte's fears that drugs had reached alarming levels.  But she demanded to know the source and basis of the accusations against the judges.
None of the judges named by Duterte has made a public statement.
More than 400 suspected drug dealers have been killed by police across the Philippines since Duterte took over, officials say. Broadcaster ABS-CNN put the number at more than 800, though that included executions by unidentified vigilantes.
Duterte's spokesman, Ernesto Abella, told a news briefing the president had "repeatedly expressed he does not condone extrajudicial killings" responding to a U.S. State Department concern about the rise in drug-related killings.
Abella said the interior minister had ordered the national police chief to investigate drug-related murders, particularly those carried out by vigilantes.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand will hold a general election in 2017, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said on Tuesday, seeking to allay concerns his military government might delay plans for a return to democracy, days after the country endorsed a military-backed constitution.
The vote in favour of the constitution in Sunday's referendum, the biggest test of public opinion since then army chief Prayuth seized power in a 2014 coup, is generally seen as a boost for the legitimacy of the government and its plans.
Under the junta's "roadmap" to restore democratic rule, Prayuth had previously said a general election would be held in 2017.
His confirmation of that plan, in his first public comments since the referendum, came after the U.S. State Department on Monday urged Thailand to take steps to restore an elected, civilian government as soon as possible.
"Please have confidence in the roadmap," Prayuth told reporters at Government House, his official offices, before a cabinet meeting.
"An election will take place in 2017, I have never said anything different to this."
The government says the constitution will restore stable, clean politics after a decade of turmoil stemming from confrontation between populist political forces and the military-royalist establishment.
Two military takeovers and outbreaks of deadly civil unrest over the years have stunted growth in Southeast Asia's second-biggest economy.
Analysts say a desire for political stability drove the  "yes" vote, with 61 percent in favour, preliminary results based on a count of 94 percent of votes show.
Critics, including major political parties, had denounced the constitution before the vote, saying it would stifle democracy by giving unelected lawmakers, including those appointed by the military, veto power over elected governments.
The European Union also urged a quick return to democracy, calling on authorities to lift restrictions on freedom of expression that have been in place since the 2014 coup.
"The EU continues to call upon the Thai authorities to create the conditions for a genuine democratic transition leading to early general elections," it said in a statement.
After the cabinet meeting, Prayuth said he would make a televised statement on his government's next steps after the official publication of full referendum results on Wednesday.
Meechai Ruchupan, head of the Constitution Drafting Committee, said the new constitution would come into effect by November.
There has been no sign of unrest since the referendum. Members of the anti-junta opposition say they are biding their time until the 2017 election, when they can try to scrap the military charter, if a party they back takes power.
GUWAHATI, India (Reuters) - The former chief minister of a remote Indian region disputed with China was found dead and hanging from a ceiling fan on Tuesday, police and officials said, after a court ruled last month that his appointment had been illegal.
The Supreme Court ruling dealt a blow to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ambitions of expanding in the northeast, where his Bharatiya Janata Party scored its first state election victory in the region with a win in Assam in May.
Kalikho Pul, 47, until July the chief minister of the  northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, had suffered from depression and was upset over the judgement, his aides told media.
"He has committed suicide," Nabam Tuki, a senior lawmaker of the opposition Congress party said in the capital of the vast but sparsely populated region bordering China.
Pul's family discovered the body in his bedroom at the chief minister's residence. Media said he had left a diary, which police were examining.
A politician with Congress since 1995, Pul became chief minister in February after rebelling against the party.
He was put in charge by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's federal government, which had imposed direct rule in the state to end a political crisis.
But the Supreme Court held illegal the imposition of president's rule, as it is called in India, ordering that the dislodged Congress should return to power immediately, forcing Pul from office.
China claims more than 90,000 sq km (35,000 sq miles) of territory disputed by India in the eastern sector of the Himalayas. Much of that forms the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh, which China calls South Tibet.
India says China occupies 38,000 square km (14,600 sq miles) of its territory on the Aksai Chin plateau in the west.
TAMU, Myanmar (Reuters) - Five years ago, when cold pills first trickled across Myanmar's untamed border with India, many local officials were baffled. Where was this medicine going, and why were smugglers so interested in it?
Today, the cross-border trickle has become a torrent and everyone knows why the Indian-made pills are so valuable: they are bound for secret laboratories in lawless eastern Myanmar that churn out most of mainland Southeast Asia's methamphetamine, or "meth".
Cold pills contain pseudoephedrine, the main ingredient of meth, a highly addictive drug whose ever-soaring popularity is rattling governments across Asia.
In recent months the Philippines has elected a president on a platform of harsh action against drug dealers, Indonesia has resumed executions of drug traffickers after a year-long hiatus and Thailand is wrestling with a soaring prison population.
    Myanmar's current boom in meth production would be impossible without a recent surge in pseudoephedrine smuggled from India's huge and ill-regulated pharmaceuticals sector, say police and narcotics experts.
    The uninterrupted flow of the drug is highlighting a disconnect between countries in tackling a meth epidemic that the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) calls Asia's "number one drug threat".
"It's big, big business," said Ye Htut, a former advisor to Myanmar's ex-President Thein Sein. He attributed a property boom in Kalay, the largest town in this otherwise impoverished region, to the profits made from smuggling pseudoephedrine.
Meth is sold in pill form as "ya ba", a Thai name meaning "crazy medicine", or as a more potent, crystalline substance known as "crystal meth", "ice" or "shabu".
Each Indian cold pill can make one "ya ba" and costs only a few cents to produce. By the time it has crossed the border and reached Mandalay - Myanmar's northern capital and a major smuggling hub - the pill's value has increased roughly tenfold.
Across mainland Southeast Asia, the UNODC estimates the meth trade was worth about $15 billion in 2013.
The rugged and ethnically diverse region straddling the Indian border ranks among Myanmar's poorest, with no industry and modest infrastructure. Its main road is a two-lane highway linked by rickety bridges and plied by ox carts.
It is here that Myanmar police have been finding thousands of the cold pills, hidden in rice sacks, packed into truck chassis or spilling from the luggage of cross-border bus passengers.
In one bust here in mid-June, police intercepted a car carrying more than 60 kg (130 lbs) of Indian pseudoephedrine - enough to make more than a million "ya ba" pills.
Global demand for methamphetamine has created "new precursor chemical entrepreneurs in India", said the U.S. State Department in a 2015 report. Experts believe many criminals who once smuggled drugs now prefer precursors, which offer high profits but much lighter penalties.
Myanmar police say China is also a major supplier of pseudoephedrine. But with tighter controls there, and with greater demand for the chemical as meth use booms, drug producers have increasingly turned to India.
Pseudoephedrine is a controlled substance in India requiring all handlers to register with the authorities. In practice, the trade is poorly monitored, with Indian officials complaining of weak intelligence-sharing between government agencies and rare prosecutions of offenders.
Raw pseudoephedrine is made in a handful of Indian factories, then moved through a network of wholesalers, drug makers, distributors and drugstores. It gets pilfered at every point along the way, say experts.
    In a statement to Reuters, India's Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said seizures had dropped after the country's narcotics laws were changed in 2013 to define pseudoephedrine as controlled.
And indeed, police in Kalay and Tamu, Myanmar's two main districts bordering India, seized only 400 kg of pseudoephedrine last year, down from more than 3.5 tons in 2013.
But that may well be because smugglers have found novel ways to avoid detection.
"It's highly likely that traffickers have just shifted approach," said Jeremy Douglas, the UNODC's Asia-Pacific head.
Tamu district alone had more than 80 unofficial crossing points along its 125-km (80-mile) border with India, said Douglas, making it almost impossible to monitor.
The Indian Embassy in Yangon did not respond to a request for comment on the problem.
Already the world's second-largest producer, after Afghanistan, of opium and its derivative heroin, Myanmar is now also reporting record-breaking seizures of meth. In May, police intercepted a truck in northern Myanmar carrying 21 million ya ba pills worth an estimated $35 million.
The booming drugs trade poses a challenge to the fledgling government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.
Rapid urbanization in the commercial capital Yangon is creating the kind of slums that have fuelled the increase in meth abuse in countries such as Thailand and the Philippines. Health experts are braced for an explosion in domestic meth use.
Meanwhile, police in Mandalay, a transit point between the western frontier with India and the rebel-dominated eastern borderlands, say they are still making record seizures of Indian-made pseudoephedrine.
Greater regional integration, aided by Indian and Myanmar road-building programmes, promised to boost both trade and trafficking, said the UNODC's Douglas.
"India and Myanmar are cooperating to some extent but they're not doing a lot of joint operations or intelligence-sharing," he said.
Myanmar police said most large drug and precursor shipments were smuggled through Moreh, the Indian border town opposite Tamu. They have arrested scores of couriers or "mules", but said they needed India's help to arrest the ringleaders.
An Indian man suspected of arranging a large pseudoephedrine shipment in 2013 sought refuge on the other side of the border, said Tamu police chief Major Soe Naing.
"Cooperation with India is quite weak so we haven't been able to catch him," he said.
The NCB said Myanmar had not presented evidence that smuggling kingpins were hiding in India, or even that the pseudoephedrine it had seized was Indian-made.
"It is coming from other countries too," said a top NCB official, who asked not to be named because he wasn't authorised to speak to journalists.
NDOYENNE 2, Senegal (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Commanding pride of place in her village in Senegal, 90-year-old Daba Ndione leans back in her chair and watches the younger grandmothers pull each other up from the ground to dance.
Laughing as they shimmy and shake in their brightly coloured dresses, the women burst into song. But instead of traditional tunes about love and fortune, the songs are an ode to the influence of grandmothers across the West African nation.
"We thank our grandmothers for taking care of us when we're sick," the circle of women sing, melodic in their native language Wolof, while dancing and clapping.
Ndione grew up long before her village of Ndoyenne 2, on the outskirts of the capital Dakar, had a school or a health centre.
Now Ndione and other grandmothers are using their influence to promote modern medicine and health care, and discuss issues from family planning and malnutrition to maternal mortality.
"It's not good for women to stay inside when pregnant," Daba tells the women, challenging the tradition of hiding one's   pregnancy. "They must go outside and walk around in the sun."
Reducing mother and child mortality is one of the biggest health challenges in Senegal, where many women do not seek routine medical care, health workers and experts say.
They are working with grandmothers in a country which has only five doctors, nurses and midwives per 10,000 people, far below the World Health Organisation's (WHO) recommended minimum of 23 health workers per 10,000 to deliver primary health care.
But the grandmother strategy has contributed to shifting attitudes and improving major health statistics, said Bouna Sall, a doctor who works in the region.
Maternal death rates in Senegal have dropped by a quarter in the past decade, to 315 deaths per 100,000 live births last year from 427 deaths in 2005, according to data from the WHO.
"Everyone obeys the grandmothers," Sall told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "Through them we can change many things."
Grandmothers have authority over child rearing and family life in Senegal and across West Africa, and even wield power  over the men in their communities, development experts say.
Organisations such as ChildFund, a U.S.-based charity that work with grandmothers, have found them to be a powerful ally in raising awareness, changing attitudes, and improving health.
After years in the field, health workers know the drill: praise the grandmothers first, and never tell them what to do.
In one session, two local volunteers performed a sketch in which a community health worker stressed the importance of prenatal checkups to a pregnant woman concerned that a visit to the doctor's would give rise to gossip from neighbours.
"The grandmother strategy is based on ideas from adult education - people have to decide for themselves to change," said Judi Aubel, founder of The Grandmother Project, which works to improve the well-being of children and women in Senegal.
ChildFund adopted the grandmother strategy in and around Dakar in 2012, and now more than a quarter of its 40 health posts are community-run, meaning that the grandmothers continue to meet, tell stories, and discuss health by themselves.
"They continue because they have understood the importance," said Adji Mahé Faye, ChildFund's regional coordinator. "They are conscious of their role."
The grandmother strategy has been effective in tackling sensitive issues such as family planning, early marriage, and female genital mutilation (FGM), human rights activists say.
Many women's rights groups focus on girls and young women to stop forced marriage and FGM, but it makes more sense to target grandmothers, who often perpetuate such practices, Aubel said.
"When the focus is on empowering girls, you create conflicts within families and societies," she said, explaining how only educating younger women can lead to clashes with their elders.
To change grandmothers' attitudes, civil society groups use midwives to talk about the health complications they have seen, and imams to explain that FGM is not a requirement of Islam.
After a three-year project in Senegal, the proportion of grandmothers who believed the risks of FGM were greater than the benefits had risen to 95 percent from 41 percent, Aubel said.
In the village of Ndoyenne 2, where FGM is not common,  attitudes towards family planning are the most difficult to change, said Safietou Ndiaye, a ChildFund representative.
"In the beginning, the grandmothers thought family planning was just to prevent women from having children," Ndiaye said.
"We showed them that women need time to rest between pregnancies, and that waiting can help you save up some money."
The grandmothers enjoy the health sessions because they give them an occasion to get together and share news, Ndiaye added.
After concluding their discussion on prenatal visits and showing off their dance moves one more time, the circle of women in Ndoyenne 2 continue to laugh and chat throughout the morning.
"It is an activity we appreciate," says Adama, another of the grandmothers. "It helps us find solutions to our problems."
KABUL (Reuters) - The American University of Afghanistan is expected to reopen on Wednesday, days after being closed in the wake of the kidnapping of two teachers, administrators said.
The two faculty members, one Australian and one American, were abducted at gunpoint from a road near the university in Kabul on Sunday evening, Afghan officials said.
Since then, the campus has been closed while senior management reviewed the security situation, the university said in a statement online on Tuesday.
"We are devastated by the news and will remain vigilant to ensure the safety of all university personnel and students," university president Mark English said in the statement.
University officials are in "close contact" with Afghan security agencies and foreign embassies, the university said.
"Everything possible is being done to ensure their safe return."
Both the American and Australian embassies confirmed their citizens were involved, but did not provide further details.
Kidnapping is a major problem in Afghanistan with Afghans the most affected, although a number of foreigners have also been abducted in recent years.
An Indian aid worker was released last month after being abducted from downtown Kabul in July. At least two other foreigners were kidnapped in Kabul last year and later released.
At least one Australian woman remains unaccounted for after being kidnapped in the eastern city of Jalalabad in April.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility on Sunday for an attack by a machete-wielding man in Brussels that left two female police officers injured, the group's Amaq news agency said on Twitter.
A machete-wielding man yelling "Allahu Akbar!" (God is greatest) had injured two female police officers before being fatally shot in the Belgian city of Charleroi on Saturday.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - A machete-wielding assailant, who attacked and injured two female police officers in the southern city of Charleroi, is a 33-year-old Algerian who may have been inspired by terrorism, Belgian prosecutors said on Sunday.
The prosecutors identified the man as K.B. who has lived in Belgium since 2012 and has a criminal record.
"There are indications that the attack may have been inspired by a terrorist motive," the prosecutors said in a statement.
"He is known to police for criminal acts, not for
terrorism."
The assailant, who shouted "Allahu Akbar" (God is greatest), was shot after attacking the officers outside the police headquarters on Saturday, and subsequently died of his wounds.
CAIRO (Reuters) - A Saudi-led military coalition carried out around 30 air strikes throughout Yemen on Sunday, residents said, a day after U.N. talks to end a civil war there expired without achieving peace.
The bombings were aimed at Yemen's armed Houthi movement in Sanaa, Saada, Jawf, Hajja and Taiz provinces, stretching from the country's far north to coastal south.
There were no immediate reports of casualties in the  strikes, which were carried out largely in remote war zones.
But on battlefronts in two areas northeast of the capital Sanaa and in southern Bayda province, local officials said about 40 fighters were killed from both sides in renewed clashes.
Saudi Arabia and its mostly Gulf Arab allies intervened in Yemen's civil war in March 2015 but have failed to restore the exiled government to the Houthi-run capital.
Nearly three months of fractious negotiations in Kuwait helped to reduce the level of fighting that has killed at least 6,400 people and unleashed a humanitarian crisis.
The U.N. pledged that the talks would be renewed at an unspecified venue within a month.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A man covered in blood who barricaded himself in a restaurant in Saarbruecken in southwest Germany has been apprehended by police in the building's cellar, a police spokesman said on Sunday.
He said the man seemed to be psychologically disturbed and contrary to earlier reports, was unarmed. He had slight, superficial injuries and is being treated in hospital where he will undergo psychological evaluation, the spokesman said.
The official said the man was an employee of the restaurant "Dubrovnik" in Saarbruecken town centre. He had made no demands and had threatened nobody, the official added.
There were no indications that this was a terrorist-related incident.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Most Germans think the European Union should scrap a landmark migration deal with Turkey, also scuppering negotiations on its accession to the bloc, according to a poll published on Sunday.
The deal, agreed by Ankara in exchange for the revival of financial aid, the promise of visa-free travel to much of the EU and accelerated membership talks, has sharply cut the number of refugees entering Europe via eastern routes.
Last year Germany took in around 1.1 million people fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and beyond, far more than any other EU state, creating conditions that have led to a rise in social and political tensions in Europe's powerhouse economy.
But the Emnid survey for mass-circulation Bild am Sonntag showed 52 percent were in favour of the migration deal being terminated, compared with 35 percent who wanted it to continue.
More than two thirds of the 502 people surveyed on Aug. 4 also wanted an immediate freeze of aid payments to Turkey and 66 percent wanted the EU accession talks broken off.
Under the migration pact, Ankara agreed to take back all migrants and refugees, including Syrians who cross by sea to Greece illegally.
The reciprocal visa-free access has been delayed due to a dispute over Turkish anti-terrorism legislation and concern in the West about the scale of Ankara's crackdown following a failed coup.
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said last weekend Ankara would back out of the refugee agreement with the EU if the bloc did not deliver visa-free travel.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Chief of Staff, Peter Altmaier, said on Friday there was "no Plan B" for the migrant deal and told the Berliner Zeitung he was convinced it would remain in place.
On Friday, Germany's foreign minister resisted a push by Austria to halt the EU accession talks with Turkey on joining the EU, saying the bloc needed to think more broadly with how to frame its relationship with Ankara in troubled times.
BATAM, Indonesia (Reuters) - It was social media chatter that gave him away. Changing his  profile picture on the LINE messaging app to a banner pledging "Indonesian support and solidarity for ISIS" probably didn't help.
Had it not been for all that, Gigih Rahmat Dewa's plot to launch a rocket attack on the city-state of Singapore from a nearby Indonesian island might never have been uncovered.
Gigih, 31, and five accomplices were arrested on Batam island on Friday after an investigation that showed how much Indonesia's Islamist militants now rely on social media, including with a Syria-based Islamic State jihadi who allegedly directed them to stage attacks.
It also underlined how militants in the world's most populous Muslim nation, once tight-knit under the Jemaah Islamiah group and internally focused, are splintering into smaller gangs loosely linked to Islamic State with increasingly regional ambitions.
"The men in Batam seem to have been radicalised over social media, specifically using Facebook, rather than directly," said police spokesman Boy Rafli Amar.
"They have been in communication with Bahrum Naim in Syria. It looks like he sent funds and instructions to them," he added, referring to the suspected mastermind of the Singapore plot who left Indonesia in 2015 to join the frontlines of Islamic State.
Multi-ethnic Singapore, sandwiched between two large, Muslim-majority nations, has never seen a successful attack by Islamist militants. But the government of the wealthy island state has said repeatedly it is only a matter of time.
According to police, Gigih and his group had been instructed by their mentor in Syria to fire a rocket at Singapore's Marina Bay, a glitzy downtown waterfront area that hosts a Formula One Grand Prix and is home to a casino resort and office blocks.
Residents of Batam, 15 km (10 miles) south of Singapore, said they were dismayed to learn that the six local men, five of whom were local factory workers, were extremists.
Gigih, his wife and infant daughter lived in a modest one-storey house in a row of many just like it. His Facebook account showed that he enjoyed cycling and hiking.
"We are shocked that a completely ordinary person like him can be like that, can be suspected of being involved in radicalism," said neighbour Rubiyati, who goes by one name.
Monalisa, a 23-year-old who attended Batam's state polytechnic institute at the same time as Gigih, described the IT student she knew until 2014 as a normal guy who was "positive, cheerful, humble and friendly with everyone".
She was, however, surprised in March of that year when Gigih changed his LINE group chat picture to a photo of a group of people holding up an Islamic State banner.
There was no preaching by hardline Islamists on campus and so it is unlikely he was radicalised there, she said.
"But what people do off campus or online is another matter."
Jakarta-based security analyst Sidney Jones said Naim, the Syria-based militant, appeared to be using virtually every available form of social media to reach as wide an audience as possible, making it difficult for counter-terrorist forces to track his followers.
"They may have gotten one cluster but there are probably many other clusters out there," she said.
In a blog post after the coordinated attacks on Paris last November, Naim urged his Indonesian audience to learn from that assault and explained how it was easy to move jihad from "guerrilla warfare" in Indonesia's equatorial jungles to a city.
Just last month Indonesian security forces killed their most-wanted militant, Santoso, who had been hiding in a jungle. But analysts say he posed a far smaller threat than the cells of Islamists quietly growing in urban areas of the main island, Java.
Kasiman, chief of the neighbourhood association where Gigih  lives in Batam, told Reuters the house had been under surveillance for about five months before Friday's raid.
Experts say a rocket attack on Singapore from a nearby island is feasible, but police found only a stash of bomb-making material, firearms and arrows during their search of the ringleader's home.
It could be that Indonesia's would-be jihadis are no more capable of sophisticated strikes than they were in January when a gun and bomb attack by four militants in the heart of the capital, Jakarta, was quickly snuffed out.
Last month a suicide bomber on a motorcycle tried to attack a police station in the city of Solo on Java island, but managed to kill only himself and wound a police officer.
According to police spokesman Amar, investigators had drawn connections between January's attack in Jakarta and the botched suicide bombing in Solo.
He said the Batam group had been acting as an agent for Indonesians who wanted to go and fight with Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, and for militants from China's ethnic Uighur Muslim minority who wanted to enter Indonesia.
But it was Facebook posts that gave them the breakthrough on the plot to hit Singapore.
"Their terrorist action plans were in Facebook," he said, without giving detail. "They didn't announce it but they were discussing it - communicating on social media between all the members."
SAO TOME (Reuters) - Voters in Sao Tome and Principe went to the polls on Sunday in the second round of the country's presidential election, with ex-speaker of parliament Evaristo Carvalho guaranteed victory after incumbent Manuel Pinto da Costa boycotted the race.
Pinto da Costa quit the run-off in the small island nation in the Gulf of Guinea, alleging irregularities in the first round on July 17, which Carvalho led with 49.88 percent of the vote to Pinto da Costa's 24.83 percent.
The former Portuguese colony of some 200,000 people has a semi-presidential system in which the prime minister is the head of government.
Pinto da Costa has governed since 2011, after ruling the country as a single-party state from independence in 1975 until 1991. Carvalho finished runner-up in 2011 and is the vice president of Sao Tome's parliamentary ruling ADI party.
The country has 19 oil blocks in its exclusive economic zone and an additional joint exploration zone with Nigeria, but it is yet to find any commercially viable oil.
(This version of the story corrects the spelling of incumbent president's name in paragraph 2)
DHAKA (Reuters) - A court in Bangladesh issued warrants on Sunday for the arrest of four suspected members of a banned group, Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), in connection with the killing of a Japanese citizen last year, a prosecutor said.
Kunio Hoshi, 65, was gunned down in October by masked men on a motorcycle while on his way to visit a grass farm project in the northern district of Rangpur, less than a week after an Italian aid worker had been killed in a similar way in Dhaka’s diplomatic quarter.
The court issued the arrest warrants after deciding to press ahead with proceedings against four other suspected members of the outlawed group, public prosecutor Nayan Noor Rahman told reporters.
Police believe that the group, which has pledged allegiance to Islamic State, carried out a July 1 attack on a cafe in which 22 people were killed, mostly foreigners, before security forces ended a 12-hour siege, killing five gunmen.
Islamic State and al Qaeda have claimed a series of killings of liberals and members of religious minorities in Bangladesh in the past year.
Islamic State also claimed responsibility for the cafe attack but the government has dismissed suggestions the group has a presence in Bangladesh.
While authorities blame the violence on domestic militants, security experts say the scale and sophistication of the cafe attack suggested links to a trans-national network.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African Paralympic gold medallist Oscar Pistorius, who was sentenced last month to a six-year jail term for killing his girlfriend, was treated in hospital for injuries to his wrists on Saturday and was returned to prison, an official said on Sunday.
"Oscar Pistorius denied speculations of a suicide attempt. As a policy principle we cannot further discuss a particular offender's personal condition in the public domain," said Manelisi Wolela, a spokesman at the Department of Correctional Services.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's presidential office rebuked on Sunday China's criticism of its decision to deploy an advanced anti-missile defense, urging Beijing to instead play a stronger role against North Korea's provocations on the peninsula.
The statement by President Park Geun-hye's office marked an escalation of diplomatic tensions between South Korea and China, which has sharply criticized Seoul's move to host a Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) unit with the U.S. military.
Park's senior press secretary, Kim Sung-woo, said in the statement recent commentary carried by China's state media was "out of place" in blaming South Korea for raising tension on the Korean peninsula with the move to deploy a THAAD unit.
"Rather than taking issue with our purely defensive action, China should raise issue in a stronger manner with North Korea which is breaking peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and Northeast by conducting four nuclear tests and, just this year, launching more than 10 ballistic missiles," it said.
South Korea and the United States began discussions to deploy a THAAD unit in the South after the North's fourth nuclear test in January and a long-range rocket launch in defiance of U.N. sanctions.
South Korea has said the move is purely to counter growing missile threats from the North and was not intended to target China, but Beijing has protested it would destabilize regional security balance.
On Wednesday, China's People's Daily in an editorial said: "It is impossible for South Korea’s leader not to know America’s strategic plot. (She) is well aware of the real direction of the THAAD anti-missile system."
"(She) has no hesitation about undermining regional stability and flagrantly damaging the security interests of neighboring powers," it said.
North Korea has launched a series of missiles in recent months, the latest on Wednesday when one ballistic missile that flew about 1,000 km (600 miles) landed near Japanese-controlled waters.
(Reuters) - Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson said on Saturday that videos of the police shooting of a black man in the city last month indicate three officers may have violated the department's policies.
Johnson told a news conference it was against departmental policy to fire at or into a moving car when the vehicle was the only potential use of force by a suspect, and police were taking a hard look at training and tactics following the shooting.
Authorities on Friday released videos that captured the moments before and after police shot Paul O'Neal, 18, on July 28, but not the shooting itself because a police officer's body camera was not recording. No firearms were found on O'Neal, who was shot in the back, according to police.
Johnson was named in March to lead the department, which is facing accusations of racism and a federal investigation into its practices after the city waited more than a year to release video of a separate 2014 fatal shooting by officers.
On Saturday, he said the ongoing investigation prevented him from discussing details about the O'Neal shooting.
"I was concerned by some of the things that I saw on the videos and that is why we took such a swift action that we did last week to relieve the three officers of their police powers," Johnson said.
The video footage released on Friday shows two officers firing at a stolen car driven by O'Neal after it sped past them, the car crashing into a police car, and O'Neal running into a backyard where he was shot. It does not show the shooting.
Johnson said the lack of a body-camera video of the O'Neal shooting is under investigation, though he noted that the officers in that police district had the cameras for only about a week before the shooting.
Civil rights activist Reverend Jesse Jackson said the lack of a complete video accounting of O'Neal's shooting showed a cover-up and a lawyer for O'Neal's family called for a special prosecutor to investigate the killing.
The union representing Chicago police officers urged the public not to rush to judgement.
Dozens of protesters demanding swift action against the officers involved in O'Neal's shooting demonstrated outside Chicago police headquarters on Friday night.
A string of high-profile killings of black men by police in various U.S. cities in the past two years has renewed a national debate about racial discrimination in the criminal justice system and given rise to the Black Lives Matter movement.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - A loud blast shook the media seats near the finishing line of the men's cycling road race on the first day of the Rio Olympics when Brazil's bomb squad detonated an unattended backpack on Saturday, amid tight security at South America's first Games.
A Reuters witness reported seeing bomb squad agents in protective clothing operating near the area where media were seated on the boulevard of Copacabana beach. That followed the detonation of another unattended bag near the same spot on Friday evening during the opening ceremony for the Games.
A spokeswoman for the public security department said that officials believe the bag may have belonged to a homeless man, but protocol requires any unattended objects to be destroyed.
The controlled blast occurred at 1:45 p.m. (1745 London time), the spokeswoman said.
Lorie Schmetterling, who travelled from Moorestown, New Jersey with her husband Eric to cheer on their daughter Laura, who is rowing for the U.S. Olympic team, had not heard the blast but was disturbed to learn it had occurred just a few hundred meters from where she was staying.
"You hear all these terrible things about how it is going to be and then you get here and it seems fine," she said. "Then this happens and you feel it, you go on high alert again."
Schmetterling said the incident would not alter her plans in Rio.
A security source said that officials were particularly concerned about this bag because it was close to the Russian hospitality site for the Games.
In recent days, bomb squad members have detonated several unattended bags in controlled explosions around Rio amid high security.
Brazil detained 12 people for suspected links to Islamic State last month but it has insisted that the risk of an attack at the Games is minimal.
Brazil has deployed some 85,000 police and military to guard the Games, roughly twice the number at the 2012 London Olympics.
NEW YORK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Almost four months after a devastating earthquake hit Ecuador, a leading government minister has appealed to tourists to return to the financially-struggling Andean country.
Nearly 700 people were killed and about 6,200 injured on April 16 in the strongest earthquake to hit Ecuador in almost four decades, leaving about 8,650 people living in government shelters, according to government figures.
Maria Duarte, Ecuador's Minister of Urban Development and Housing, said she was "totally" optimistic about the pace of  reconstruction with the repair or rebuilding of 26,000 homes in the works or planned.
Longer term she said the government had to improve the construction of buildings in Ecuador which is prone to earthquakes. Two tremors struck the northwest coast again in May, leading to one death in the same region as the April quake.
But for now she appealed to tourists to return to Ecuador to help put the country back on track.
"We have several types of victims, not all are victims due to the destruction of their homes," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in a interview during a visit to New York City.
"There are people who remain without jobs and whose only form of sustenance was tourism, which momentarily is nonexistent."
The strongest quake in Ecuador since 1979 has tested the country's resilience at a time of economic difficulties due to low oil prices in this small member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Some $3.3 billion will be required to rebuild affected areas, according to authorities.
President Rafael Correa has announced a raft of measures to finance the emergency with funding sources ranging from loans from the International Monetary Fund and other multilateral lenders to plans to sell assets and increase some taxes.
But he also described many ill-built constructions in Ecuador as "death traps" built as such to "save a few pennies" and has urged residents to push mayors to enforce construction standards.
Duarte said municipal building requirements were rarely respected or enforced in remote areas of the country and in the disaster's aftermath more than 60,000 inspections of buildings and other structures had been conducted.
"There is a weakness at the municipal level," she said in the interview that was conducted in Spanish on Friday.
"One of the great ... challenges and the great goals that we need is much, much more control over construction."
The hardest-hit areas, the coastal provinces of Manabi and Esmeraldas, are tourist hubs whose beach towns fuel Ecuador's vital tourism industry, Duarte said.
Some 1.5 million foreign vacationers flocked to Ecuador last year, contributing $1.7 billion dollars to the nation's otherwise largely oil and export-dependent economy.
But that source of income is now at risk, Duarte said, with the government only releasing economic data for the first quarter of the year so far.
The central bank has said it will need to revise its full-year projections for 2016 economic growth as a result of the tremor, but has not yet provided an updated figure.
"Despite all the efforts we are making, there are certain regions that haven't recovered," said Duarte who was in New York to plan Habitat III, a U.N. conference on cities to be held in October in Quito.
(Reuters) - The U.S. Coast Guard has repatriated 97 Cuban migrants picked up at sea, part of a surge in attempts to reach the United States from the Communist-run island, the service said on Saturday.
The Cubans were sent back to the Caribbean nation since last Sunday and carried aboard three cutters, the Coast Guard said in a statement. The Cubans had been picked up in seven interdictions at sea.
"We discourage anyone from taking to the sea and attempting to reach U.S. soil illegally – they are risking their lives with very little chance of success,” said Captain Mark Gordon, chief of enforcement for the Coast Guard's 7th District.
The number of Cuban migrants trying to reach the southeastern United State last month was 834, up from 410 in July 2015, the statement said.
Since Oct. 1, at least 5,786 Cubans have tried to migrate to the United States by sea, compared with 4,473 in federal fiscal year 2015.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration released a redacted version of President Barack Obama's once-secret policy on drone strikes abroad following a freedom of information lawsuit filed last year, the American Civil Liberties Union said on Saturday.
The release of the 18-page Presidential Policy Guidance document, as well as other Department of Defense papers, follows an order by a U.S. District Court judge in February requiring the Justice Department to disclose the document, also known as "the Playbook."
It sets out the law and rules the government must follow when carrying out targeted killings and the capture of terrorist suspects abroad.
Obama pledged in 2013 to provide greater transparency about counter-terrorism operations, including drone strikes overseas, amid calls by some U.S. lawmakers and rights groups for more openness.
ACLU's deputy legal director, Jameel Jaffer, welcomed the release of the documents, saying they provide new details about policy standards and insights into the process for targeting individuals with lethal force or for capture.
"Its release now will inform an ongoing debate about the lawfulness and wisdom of the government's counter-terrorism policies," Jaffer said in a statement.
The ACLU's lawsuit sought information, among other things, on the law and policies used to justify lethal force and how the government picks targets.
According to the documents, published by the ACLU, strikes against high-value terrorist targets can be taken "when there is near certainty" that the person is present, and that no civilians will be injured or killed, and is necessary to "achieve U.S. policy objectives".
The administration has defended its use of drones as essential in fighting al Qaeda and other militants in countries such as Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen. Some drone strikes have killed civilians who were not targets, igniting local anger.
"The president has emphasized that the U.S. Government should be as transparent as possible with the American people about our counter-terrorism operations, the manner in which they are conducted, and their results," National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said of Saturday's release of documents.
"Our counter-terrorism actions are effective and legal, and their legitimacy is best demonstrated by making public more information about these actions as well as setting clear standards for other nations to follow," he added.
Naureen Shah, Amnesty International's U.S. director for security and human rights, also welcomed the documents but said more was needed to ensure the policy was followed.
"The Obama administration's disclosures are welcome but they only tell part of the story and obscure disturbing practices. We still know extremely little about the standards that would govern signature strikes and so-called rescuer strikes, which have involved potentially unlawful killings," Shah added.
ROUEN, France (Reuters) - A fire swept through a bar in the northern French city of Rouen overnight, killing 13 people and injuring six, after a birthday cake with candles and sparklers fell to the floor and set the carpet ablaze, police said.
The fire broke out in the basement of the popular Cuba Libre bar and quickly engulfed the room where some 20 people were celebrating, filling it with thick black smoke and poisonous fumes, a Rouen police officer told Reuters.
"A large number of those who died were killed by the fire, others were overcome by the toxic fumes," the officer said.
One of the injured suffered burns to nearly 90 percent of the body and was in a critical condition, the officer added.
France's interior ministry said a judicial investigation was under way into the fire, which Rouen Mayor Yvon Robert described as "totally accidental".
That allayed initial public concerns that it could have been a terrorist attack in a city that this week buried a priest who was knifed to death by Islamists in his church.
Stunned onlookers stared at the bar's blown out windows and blackened interior on Saturday morning.
"All of a sudden, everything blew," said Valerie Fouquet, who was outside on the terrace of the bar at the time.
"We saw the smoke and we saw the flames, the chairs flew up, the window exploded."
More than 50 firefighters tackled the blaze, the interior ministry said.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Anti-rape activists protested on Saturday as South African President Jacob Zuma delivered his first remarks since local elections gave his African National Congress (ANC) its worst results since 1994.
Zuma ignored the protest while his security guards stood nearby, apparently surprised by the protest by four women dressed in black and holding up placards, some with the words "Remember Khwezi" and "10 years later".
"Khwezi" is the assumed name of an female HIV activist who, in one of the most sensational cases in South Africa, accused Zuma of rape in 2006 before he became president.
He was acquitted of the charges, keeping alive the political hopes of a man who went on to become president in 2009.
Zuma had pleaded not guilty to raping "Khwezi" at his Johannesburg home, but his lawyers said he did have consensual sex with the woman, then 31 years old.
Zuma's spokesman was unavailable to comment. There was no comment from other government officials.
Glen Mashinini, chairman of the electoral commission,  apologised to Zuma, saying "this took us by surprise, and we really want to apologise to all of you" to the gathering that included cabinet ministers and political party chiefs.
In his speech, Zuma said the elections - which punished the ruling ANC for unemployment, a stagnating economy and Zuma's scandals - had been well run and proved that South Africa's democracy was maturing.
Zuma, 73, has survived several political and personal scandals, fending off accusations of corruption, influence peddling and rape before he took office in 2009.
The rape case has caused political damage to Zuma, particularly because he conceded that he had had unprotected sex with the woman, despite knowing that she was infected with HIV.
AIDS activists criticized Zuma - who said he took a shower afterwards to prevent possible HIV infection - for what they said was his spreading of misinformation about the disease in South Africa.
LONDON (Reuters) - South Africa's ruling ANC has beaten the opposition Democratic Alliance in the Johannesburg municipality election, although it fell short of an outright majority, the electoral commission said on Saturday.
The results of the local government elections have reshaped the political landscape in South Africa, where the ANC has governed virtually unopposed since it ended white-minority rule in 1994, led by Nelson Mandela.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Forces loyal to President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi launched a new offensive east of the Yemeni capital Sanaa on Saturday, the military command said, after United Nations-sponsored peace talks in Kuwait ended without an agreement.
The offensive, which is backed by air strikes from a Saudi-led coalition, came as the Iran-allied Houthis and the party of ex-President Ali Abdullah Saleh announced a 10-member governing council, against the wishes of the U.N.
The Houthis and Saleh's General People's Congress (GPC), hold most of Yemen's northern half, while forces loyal to Hadi share control of the rest of the country with local tribes.
The fighting in which more than 6,400 people have been killed, half of them civilians, has created a humanitarian crisis in one of the poorest countries in the Middle East.
Al Qaeda and its militant rival Islamic State have exploited the war to try to recruit more followers and establish roots in the country, which controls major shipping lanes overlooking the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden.
The pro-Hadi sabanew.net news agency said that the Yemeni army and allied local tribesmen, backed by Arab coalition air strikes, began a major operation to "liberate the district of Nehem east of Sanaa". The area is a key route to the capital, which has been under Houthi control since 2014.
"The army and the resistance have managed to liberate a number of important military positions that had been controlled by the coup militias, most prominent of which is the Manara mount which overlooks the centre of Nehem district," the agency quoted a military spokesman as saying.
Fighting was also reported on the Yemeni-Saudi border, where a Saudi border guard was killed by fire directed from the Yemeni side, the Saudi state news agency SPA said, citing a security spokesman.
A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition accused the Houthis of escalating attacks along the border, where the alliance had scaled back its military operations to give the Yemeni peace talks a chance to succeed.
"The militias began military operations along the border after the suspension of the Yemeni consultations," the spokesman, General Ahmed al-Asseri, told the Saudi-owned al-Hadath television, referring to the Houthis. "The Houthi militias are trying to achieve gains on the ground to make up for political losses," he added.
The comments came after the U.N. special envoy, Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed announced that talks in Kuwait had been adjourned, promising they would resume at an unspecified venue within a month.
"We will leave Kuwait today, but peace consultations will continue. We will let the parties consult their leaders," he told a news conference.
Earlier in Sanaa, the Houthi-run sabanews.net news agency published the names of 10 officials it said would be on a political committee to run the country. The parties would rotate the position of president and vice president, who would be chosen from within the committee, the statement said.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Yemen's government has asked international financial institutions to prevent central bank officials from accessing state funds held in overseas banks, the state-run sabanew.net news agency reported on Saturday.
The move could exacerbate a humanitarian crisis in Yemen, where a civil war has been raging between the Iran-allied Houthis, who control the capital Sanaa and the central bank, and the internationally recognised government of Prime Minister Ahmed bin Daghr based in the southern port city of Aden.
Bin Daghr has received "confirmed information" that the central bank administration is tapping Yemeni foreign reserves held at banks in Europe and the United States after exhausting funds in Sanaa and elsewhere for the war effort, an official at the prime minister's office told the news agency.
"Out of concern for the funds and belongings of the Yemeni people, and in order to preserve the remaining public funds, ... the Yemeni government has decided to take this step, which includes suspending dealing with Central Bank Governor Mohammed Awad bin Humam," the official was quoted as saying.
The 69-year-old bin Humam had continued in his post after advancing Houthi fighters forced President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi and his government into exile in Saudi Arabia in March last year, precipitating the Saudi-led intervention.
World powers have been concerned about the humanitarian situation in Yemen, where the United Nations says many provinces are on the verge of famine. More than 6,400 have been killed since March last year and some 2.5 million have been displaced.
The Yemeni government move came as U.N.-sponsored peace negotiations in Kuwait ended without an agreement after nearly three months of talks, paving the way for fresh fighting.
Last month, bin Humam said a second round of transfers of bank funds abroad to facilitate imports had been scheduled in days. His comments appeared to confirm what an official at a Yemeni government bank told Reuters a week earlier about a first batch of transfers taking place earlier this year.
Hadi's government has accused the Houthis of squandering some $4 billion (£3.06 billion) in reserves held by the central bank on the war effort, but the Houthis say the funds had been used to finance imports of food and medicine.
The reserves have fallen to around $1.1 billion from $4.7 billion at the end of 2014. The IMF put them at well below two months' of imports, which it told Reuters was "very, very low".
MILAN (Reuters) - Italy's highest court is set to give a green light on Monday for a national referendum due to take place in the autumn on a major constitutional reform, daily la Repubblica reported on Saturday.
The referendum, in which people can vote on a series of changes to the country's constitution, will be a big test for Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's government.
Renzi has said he would resign if people voted against the reforms, one of the main pillars of the agenda of his centre-left government.
The new rules, approved by parliament in April, aim at increasing political stability and ending decades of revolving-door governments that have made it difficult to revive the country's debt-ridden economy.
The court had 30 days to examine signatures in a petition needed to call the referendum, which totalled more than the 500,000 threshold required by law, but reached a decision quickly, la Repubblica reported.
The court is due to hold a press conference on Monday to give its approval, the paper said.
Under Italian law, the government will then have 60 days to set a date for the vote, which must be held on a Sunday.
In July, Renzi said the referendum could be held either October 9 or November 6.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Most of Kenya suffered a blackout on Saturday due to a fault on a major transmission line serving the capital Nairobi, electricity distributor Kenya Power said.
By 1000 GMT supply had been restored to all major regions including the capital Nairobi, West Kenya, North Rift, South Nyanza and the Coast area, the company's spokesman told Reuters.
"We experienced a technical challenge that led to tripping of our main supply line ... consequently leading to a power outage in most parts of the country," Kenya Power said in a statement early on Saturday.
Kevin Sang, Kenya Power's chief communication's officer, told Reuters supply was knocked out at 5:34 a.m. local time (0234 GMT) on Saturday when a fault occurred on a transmission line that runs from Olkaria in Kenya's Great Rift Valley region to Nairobi.
Blackouts are common in Kenya, partly because of an ageing energy network and insufficient generation capacity. Many businesses in Nairobi and other big towns operate back-up generators.
"There could be pockets here and there ... which are still off supply but most of the areas are back on supply," Sang said.
MOSCOW/KIEV (Reuters) - The head of the separatist-controlled Luhansk region in east Ukraine was wounded on Saturday after an explosion near his car that regional officials said was an assassination attempt.
Igor Plotnitsky, head of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic (LNR), received shrapnel wounds in the blast, a source in the hospital where he was being treated told Russia's Interfax news agency.
His life was not in danger, according to rebel mouthpiece the Luhansk Information Centre.
The incident follows a sharp increase in violence in east Ukraine, where pro-Russian separatists are fighting the Kiev government's forces despite a fragile ceasefire.
"Today at 7:50 an assassination attempt on the head of the LNR was carried out. Facts from the scene speak of the fact that it was an act of terrorism," regional official Sergei Kozlov told the Luhansk Information Centre.
A spokesman for Ukraine's presidential administration said Kiev had nothing to do with the blast.
"The Ukrainian side is not involved in this assassination attempt, since it's absolutely without any logic and does not solve a single question," Oleksandr Motuzyanik told a news conference.
Motuzyanik said the incident could be the result of a local power struggle.
Civilian casualties from shelling, mines and booby traps in eastern Ukraine are at their highest in a year, the United Nations' human rights chief said earlier this week.
More than 9,000 people have been killed in the Ukraine conflict, including soldiers, civilians and members of armed groups, since an armed rebellion started in the Russian-speaking regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in spring 2014.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) has won most votes in Tshwane municipality, home to the capital Pretoria, the state news agency said on Saturday, dealing a major blow to the ruling African National Congress (ANC).
The DA garnered 43.1 percent of votes compared with 41.48 percent for the ANC in the municipality, the South African Government News Agency said. But the DA fell short of a majority and will have to try to form a coalition to govern in Tshwane.
The leftist Economic Freedom Fighters polled 12 percent, with smaller parties sharing the rest, the agency reported.
The ANC has suffered its worst results in Wednesday's municipal elections since the end of apartheid in South Africa.
DUBAI (Reuters) - A leading Iranian Sunni Muslim said the execution of Sunni Islamists last week could inflame sectarian tensions in the Gulf region, while Tehran said it was merely taking a tough stance on foreign-backed terrorism.
Iran executed up to 20 Sunni Kurds accused of attacks on security forces. There were no public trials and rights groups said the convictions may have been based on forced confessions.
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said on Friday that "overly broad and vague criminal charges" had led to "a grave injustice".
Iran's Foreign Ministry expressed surprise at the remarks.
"The Islamic Republic of Iran has always taken forceful policy measures to counter regional terrorist groups supported by foreign countries," ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi was quoted as saying by state news agency IRNA.
Molavi Abdolhamid, a leading Sunni cleric in Iran said the executions lacked "forethought and tolerance" at a time when Iran and the whole region were suffering from extremism.
"Our main complaint is that the sensitive situation in our region has not been considered in these executions," Abdolhamid, who is regarded as a spiritual leader for Iran's Sunni minority, said on his website.
Iran and the Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia - the Gulf region's two rival powers - accuse each other of trying to exploit sectarian differences to sow discontent in the other country. In January, Saudi Arabia executed a prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric along with dozens of Sunni militants, causing outrage in Iran.
Iran has one of the highest execution rates in the world. Amnesty International says at least 977 people were put to death there in 2015, compared to 320 in Pakistan and at least 158 in Saudi Arabia.
KAMPALA (Reuters) - Somali Islamist group al Shabaab on Saturday shelled residential areas in the town of Baidoa, west of the capital Mogadishu, hitting a hospital and likely causing casualties, the African Union (AU) peace keeping force AMISOM said in a Twitter post.
The al Qaeda-allied group, which wants to topple Somalia's Western-backed government and rule the country according to Islamic Sharia law, has been ramping up attacks on both civilian and military targets in recent months.
"Al Shabaab militants fired mortar shells at densely populated civilian residential areas in Baidoa town this morning," AMISOM said on its Twitter account.
"One round of the mortars hit a hospital. Civilian casualties are unknown but expected."
Security analysts have warned that the group could step up attacks, taking advantage of the distraction caused by campaigning for a presidential election due in August.
The group has also launched attacks in Kenya and Uganda which have contributed troops to the 22,000-strong AMISOM force.
In the most recent attacks, al Shabaab late last month used vehicle-borne suicide bombers to launch assaults on an AMISOM base and the headquarters of Police's Criminal Investigations Directorate (CID) both in Mogadishu.
The attacks left at least 23 people dead.
Somalia has been gripped by violence and lawlessness since early 1990s following the toppling of military dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's air force sent bombers and fighter jets on "combat patrols" near contested islands in the South China Sea, in a move a senior colonel said was part of an effort to normalize such drills and respond to security threats.
The exercises come at a time of heightened tension in the disputed waters after an arbitration court in The Hague ruled last month that China did not have historic rights to the South China Sea.
The air force sent several H-6 bombers and Su-30 fighter jets to inspect the airspace around the Spratly Islands and Scarborough Shoal, Senior Colonel Shen Jinke of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force said, according to state news agency Xinhua.
The patrols included surveillance and refueling aircraft, Xinhua said, although it did not say when they occurred.
"The Air Force is organizing normalized South China Sea combat patrols, practising tactics ... increasing response capabilities to all kinds of security threats and safeguarding national sovereignty, security and maritime interests," Shen said.
China has refused to recognize the ruling by an arbitration court in The Hague that invalidated its vast territorial claims in the South China Sea and did not take part in the proceedings brought by the Philippines.
A dispute over the shoal, 124 nautical miles northwest of the Philippines mainland, was one of Manila's main reasons for bringing international legal action against China in 2013.
Beijing has reacted angrily to calls by Western countries and Japan for the decision to be adhered to and has released pictures of aircraft flying over the shoal since the ruling.
China has repeatedly blamed the United States for stoking tension through its military patrols in the South China Sea, a strategic waterway through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually.
China, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam all have rival claims in the South China Sea.
The United States has conducted freedom of navigation patrols close to Chinese-held islands, to Beijing's anger, while China has been bolstering its military presence there.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia has offered to help German investigators find those behind Islamist bomb and axe attacks in July, news magazine Der Spiegel reported on Saturday, citing a senior member of the Saudi government.
Saudi authorities are in contact with their German colleagues, responding to new findings that show both attackers were in close contact via a chat conversation with possible Islamic State backers from Saudi Arabia, Spiegel said.
Traces of the chat, which investigators have been able to reconstruct, indicate that both men were not only influenced by but also took instructions from people, as yet unidentified, up until the attacks, the report said.
The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for an attack on July 18 near Wuerzburg in Bavaria in which a 17-year-old refugee believed to be from Pakistan or Afghanistan wounded five people with an axe before police shot him dead.
A 27-year-old Syrian who blew himself up in Ansbach, southern Germany on July 24 had pledged allegiance to Islamic State on a video found on his mobile phone, investigators said. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the bombing, which wounded 15 people.
Bavaria's Interior Minister said at the end of July that the Ansbach bomber had been "significantly influenced" in a chat conversation on his mobile phone that ended just before the attack.
MILAN (Reuters) - Police in Italy, Hungary and Slovenia on Saturday arrested four people in a coordinated operation targeting a group suspected of smuggling illegal migrants into Italy from the Balkans, Italian police said.
Two of the suspects were arrested in northern Italy, one in Budapest and one in the Slovenian city of Maribor, they said. The four are all charged with criminal conspiracy and aiding and abetting clandestine migration.
The suspects are part of a trans-national criminal group of Pakistani origin that is based in Milan, the Italian Carabinieri police said in a statement.
The organisation transported Pakistani, Bengali and Afghan migrants from Hungary into Italy and northern European countries, packing them into delivery vans and using fake documents, the statement said.
The police said the business generated returns close to 500,000 euros a year.
More than one million migrants, many fleeing conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, have poured into Europe through Greece since last year, with the Balkans being the preferred route to Western Europe.
The number of migrants has fallen sharply in recent months, however, due to much tighter policing, the erection of walls on some stretches of border and a deal between the European Union and Turkey which involves returning illegal migrants arriving in Greece back to Turkey.
ANKARA/ DUBAI (Reuters) - A fire from a gas pipeline explosion in Iran early on Saturday near the town of Gonaveh in the southern province of Bushehr, has been brought under control and did not cause any fatalities, the news agency of the country's oil ministry said on Saturday.
Earlier, a local official had told state news agency IRNA that at least one person was killed.
"The fire started at 00:45 ... and was fully contained at 05:00," the head of the Health, Safety & Environment department at Gachsaran Oil and Gas Company, Mohammad Mohseni was quoted as saying by the oil ministry's news agency SHANA.
"There has been no fatality. In total four people are injured," he said.
Mohseni said the polyethylene facilities and the sour gas pipelines in vicinity of the 42-inch gas pipeline were not damaged.
He said the fire and blast had happened during maintenance operations and a committee had been set up to investigate it further.
A local official told state TV that the explosion was not an act of sabotage and "nearby villages have been evacuated as a safety measure."
HAVANA (Reuters) - Veteran Cuban dissident Guillermo Farinas was briefly hospitalized in Santa Clara on Friday after losing consciousness in his home on the 16th day of a hunger strike to protest government repression, his opposition organisation said.
This was the second time the 54-year-old Farinas, who has staged more than 20 similar actions over the years, was rushed to receive medical attention and intravenous liquids since starting the hunger strike after what he said was a beating by police in his home city of Santa Clara in central Cuba.
Farinas, who received the European Union's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 2010, is demanding that such beatings cease and a meeting between dissidents and the government to negotiate an end to repression.
Farinas returned home from a hospital after being there for more than seven hours, Juan Carlos Ruiz, a member of Farinas' organisation, the Frente Antitotalitario Unido (the United Antitotalitarian Front), said in a telephone interview from the dissident's home.
"They gave him an intravenous solution. But already he is recovering and right now sleeping," he said.
More than a dozen other dissidents around the country, mainly members of an opposition organisation called the Patriotic Union of Cuba (UPACU) in the eastern part of the country, also are on hunger strikes, with at least two members hospitalized, according to opposition groups.
A few of the UPACU members began their hunger strikes earlier than Farinas, also to protest repression.
Farinas has been a vocal critic of the detente between the United States and Cuba that began in December 2014, when he said dissidents should have been included in secret talks preceding it that he called a betrayal.
Last week, the U.S. State Department voiced concern about the condition of Farinas and other hunger strikers, and urged Cuba's government to take action.
"We stand in solidarity with those who advocate for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly," State Department spokesman John Kirby said.
Communist-run Cuba calls all political opponents U.S. mercenaries with no popular following.
Dissidents are relatively free to talk among themselves, travel abroad and publish on the internet, though their posts are blocked within the country.
However, Cuban opposition efforts to organise political protests and engage in civil disobedience are regularly met by harassment, mobs of government supporters, temporary detentions and occasional imprisonment.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration is preparing to elevate the stature of the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, signaling more emphasis on developing cyber weapons to deter attacks, punish intruders into U.S. networks and tackle adversaries such as Islamic State, current and former officials told Reuters.
Under the plan being considered at the White House, the officials said, U.S. Cyber Command would become what the military calls a "unified command" equal to combat branches of the military such as the Central and Pacific Commands.
Cyber Command would be separated from the National Security Agency, a spy agency responsible for electronic eavesdropping, the officials said. That would give Cyber Command leaders a larger voice in arguing for the use of both offensive and defensive cyber tools in future conflicts.
Both organizations are based at Fort Meade, Maryland, about 30 miles north of Washington, and led by the same officer, Navy Adm. Michael S. Rogers.
A former senior intelligence official with knowledge of the plan said it reflects the growing role that cyber operations play in modern warfare, and the different missions of the Cyber Command and the NSA. The official spoke on condition of anonymity.
A Cyber Command spokesman declined comment on the plan, and the NSA did not respond to requests for comment.
Established in 2010, Cyber Command is now subordinate to the U.S. Strategic Command, which oversees military space operations, nuclear weapons and missile defense.
U.S. officials cautioned that details of the plan, including some aspects of Cyber Command's new status, are still being debated.
It was unclear when the matter will be presented to President Barack Obama for final approval, but the former senior intelligence official said it was unlikely anyone would stand in the way.
A senior official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the administration was "constantly reviewing if we have the appropriate organizational structures in place to counter evolving threats, in cyber space or elsewhere."
"While we have no changes to this structure to announce, the relationship between NSA and Cyber Command is critical to safeguarding our nation’s security," the official said.
The Pentagon acknowledged earlier this year that it has conducted cyber attacks against Islamic State, although the details are highly classified.
"We are dropping cyberbombs. We have never done that before," Deputy Defense Secretary Robert Work said in April.
The Washington Post reported last month that Pentagon leaders had been frustrated with the slow pace of Cyber Command's electronic offensive against Islamic State, militants who control parts of Iraq and Syria and have sympathizers and supporters worldwide.
In response, Rogers created Joint Task Force Ares to develop new digital weapons against Islamic State and coordinate with the Central Command, which is responsible for combat operations in the Middle East and South Asia.
The new task force has "the specific mission to accomplish cyberspace objectives in support of counter-ISIL operations," a Cyber Command statement said. Task Force Ares, it said, "comprises operations and intelligence professionals from each of the military services."
James Lewis, a cyber security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the plan that will be presented to Obama highlights how Cyber Command, reliant on the NSA in its early years, is developing its own work force and digital tools.
"It reflects the maturing of Cyber Command and its own capabilities," Lewis said.
Defense Secretary Ash Carter hinted at the higher status for Cyber Command in an April speech in Washington, in which he said the Pentagon is planning $35 billion in cyber spending over the next five years.
"Adapting to new functions will include changes in how we manage ourselves in cyberspace," Carter said.
NSA's primary mission is to intercept and decode adversaries' phone calls, emails and other communications. The agency was criticized for over-reach after former NSA contractor Edward Snowden revealed some of its surveillance programs.
NSA's focus is gathering intelligence, officials said, often favoring the monitoring of an enemy's cyber activities. Cyber Command's mission is geared more to shutting down cyber attacks - and, if ordered, counter attacking.
The NSA director has been a senior military officer since the agency's founding in 1952. Under the plan, future directors would be civilians, an arrangement meant to underscore that NSA  is not subordinate to Cyber Command.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's lead over Republican rival Donald Trump narrowed to less than 3 percentage points, according to a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released on Friday, down from nearly eight points on Monday.
About 42 percent of likely voters favored Clinton, to Trump's 39 percent, according to the July 31-Aug. 4 online poll of 1,154 likely voters. The poll had a credibility interval of plus or minus 3 percentage points, meaning that the results suggest the race is roughly even.
Among registered voters over the same period, Clinton held a lead of five percentage points, down from eight percentage points on Monday, according to the poll.
The reasons behind the shift were unclear.
Clinton had pulled well ahead of Trump on the heels of the Democratic National Convention last week, where she became the first woman to accept the U.S. presidential nomination from a major political party.
Since then, Trump has engaged in a days-long feud with the family of an American soldier killed in Iraq and squabbled with the Republican leadership over his comments and leadership turmoil within his campaign.
Trump, in recent days, however, has sought to refocus. On Friday he announced his economic policy advisory team, said he would deliver an economic policy speech early next week, and was expected to endorse U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, the top U.S. elected Republican, who is seeking his 10th term in Congress.
An average of polls aggregated by Real Clear Politics showed Clinton ahead of Trump by 6.8 percentage points on Friday, up from 3.9 on Aug. 1.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Kuwaiti authorities have arrested a Filipina accused of pledging allegiance to Islamic State and planning to launch an attack in the Gulf Arab state, the official news agency KUNA reported on Friday.
The woman, born in 1984, entered Kuwait in June as a housemaid and has been in contact with Islamic State's affiliate in Libya, the interior ministry said in a statement published by KUNA.
Security forces monitored one of the email accounts run by the woman and found messages in which she had contacted the Libyan militant group and had been using "fake name and nickname to evade monitoring," the ministry said.
"The accused confessed ... that she was ready to carry out any terrorist attack once circumstances and means were available to target a specific section of the society in order to undermine security and stability in Kuwait, as well as ignite sedition," KUNA said.
The news agency also published pictures of a veiled, middle-aged women, dressed in an abaya, the traditionally all-black, enveloping gown that observant Muslim women wear in public in the Gulf, identifying her as the accused.
Last month, Kuwait foiled three planned Islamic State attacks on the country, including a plot to blow up a Shi'ite mosque, after launching raids that resulted in the arrest of militants.
A year ago, Kuwait, home to several U.S. military bases, suffered its deadliest militant attack in decades when a Saudi suicide bomber blew himself up inside a packed Shi'ite mosque, killing 27 people. Islamic State claimed responsibility.
A U.S. ally and neighbour of Saudi Arabia and Iraq, Kuwait is part of a 34-nation alliance announced by Riyadh in December aimed at countering Islamic State and al Qaeda in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Egypt and Afghanistan.
Shi'ites comprise between 15 percent and 30 percent of the predominantly Sunni Muslim Gulf Arab state, where members of both communities are known to live side by side with little apparent friction.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States has taken in 8,000 Syrian refugees since October and is on track to meet President Barack Obama's goal of resettling 10,000 by the end of the fiscal year, a U.S. State Department official told reporters on Friday.
Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration Anne Richard said additional U.S. personnel had been deployed to vet refugees overseas and that many other refugees had already been vetted and were awaiting resettlement.
The total number of Syrian refugees in the United States may even exceed the 10,000 goal by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, Richard and other administration officials said on a call with reporters.
Obama set a goal of welcoming 10,000 Syrian refugees from Syria's civil war to the United States, drawing criticism from Republicans in the U.S. Congress worried about admitting Syrians who pose a security threat.
Human rights advocates raised concerns over whether the administration would be able to meet its goal when less than 5,000 Syrians had been admitted halfway through the fiscal year.
"Monthly totals have climbed from low numbers of refugees submitted in the first half of the year to higher numbers recently. In May, June and July the impact of our investments in and enhancements to the process began to be realized," Richard said.
ROME (Reuters) - More than 100 migrants broke through police barriers at the Italian border town of Ventimiglia and made their way into France on Friday, the local Italian police chief said.
They stopped on rocks near the port at the French Riviera town of Menton after breaking through in the afternoon and were still there in the evening under the surveillance of French police, said Ventimiglia police commander Giorgio Marenco.
"Both the Italian and French forces at the border were taken by surprise," Marenco told Reuters. The French Interior Ministry and representatives of the Alpes-Maritimes region around Menton were not available for comment.
A video posted on the website of Nice Matin newspaper showed a stream of people picking their way across rocks, followed by police in riot gear. A few started to walk into the sea.
It was not immediately clear how they got past police cordons.
Many of the hundreds of migrants who arrive by boat in Italy every day aim for northern Europe. Ventimiglia's craggy seashore became the site of a temporary migrant camp last year, which was later cleared away by police.
Most of the more than 94,000 people who have arrived in Italy by boat this year travelled from sub-Saharan Africa to Libya where people smugglers, who have taken advantage of the breakdown of order there, charged them hundreds of dollars for the passage, often in unseaworthy boats.
The city of about 24,000 residents opened a reception centre to house the hundreds of migrants who had been sleeping rough under a bridge.
About 150 migrants left the centre shortly after midnight on Thursday and walked to the shore, where they remained for hours before heading for France.
"The migrants who have reached Ventimiglia over the past three years have one aim: to pass into France," Marenco said.
HAVANA (Reuters) - Colombia's government and leftist FARC rebels took another step toward ending more than a half century of conflict on Friday, agreeing on a U.N.-supervised security protocol, timetable and other details for disarming the estimated 9,000 guerrillas.
The announcement came after the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the government of President Juan Manuel Santos signed in June an historic agreement that stated they had reached deals on all major issues and established a de facto ceasefire and the parameters for the rebels to disarm and rejoin civil society.
Under the agreement, FARC troops will gather at 26 locations around the South American country and hand over their arms within six months of a final peace agreement going into effect.
"The FARC will have handed in all their arms to the United Nations within 180 days," Humberto de la Calle, chief negotiator for the government, told reporters in Havana.
Friday's agreement stipulated that 50 FARC members would be free to monitor the process nationwide, and another 10 in each of the 26 locations. Under the agreement, the United Nations would have final say on any disputes.
After more than three years of negotiations hosted by Cuba over such thorny issues as land reform, war crimes and drug trafficking, the two sides are close to a final accord that would be put to a referendum vote. If ratified, it would end the longest-running and last significant guerrilla conflict in the Western Hemisphere.
"When we finish the agenda points, that is to say, when everything is agreed, that is when we will send the texts to Congress and convene the plebiscite," Santos said during an event in the Pacific port city of Buenaventura on Thursday.
Santos must win over those sceptical of FARC promises to rejoin civil society, including supporters of hard-line former President Alvaro Uribe, who contends a deal will grant guerrillas impunity for war crimes.
The FARC grew out of a 1960s peasant revolt that exploded into a cocaine-fuelled war that has killed at least 220,000 people and displaced millions.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. military killed three al Qaeda operatives in a strike on Thursday in Yemen, U.S. Central Command said on Friday.
The Central Command statement did not specify how the strike was carried out or the identities of those killed.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - Former Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Guterres is still the front-runner to become the next United Nations Secretary-General after a second U.N. Security Council secret ballot on Friday, said diplomats.
The 15-member council cast a ballot for each of the 11 candidates, and the choice is encourage, discourage or no opinion. Guterres received 11 encourage, two discourage and two no opinions, diplomats said. In the first poll on July 21, Guterres received 12 encourages and three no opinions.
Former Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic moved up to second with eight encourage, four discourage and three no opinion, edging out Argentinian Foreign Minister Susana Malcorra who got eight encourage, six discourage and one no opinion.
Former Slovenian President Danilo Turk dropped to fourth from second with seven encourage, five discourage and three no opinion, while Irina Bokova of Bulgaria, director-general of U.N. cultural organisation UNESCO took fifth spot.
The Security Council will hold secret ballots until a consensus is reached on a candidate to replace U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon of South Korea who steps down at the end of 2016 after serving two five-year terms.
There are 11 candidates, six men and five women, vying for the post. Former Croatian Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic, who came last in the first ballot, dropped out of the race on Thursday. (Graphic - tmsnrt.rs/2aLr6IV)
Civil society groups and nearly a third of the 193 U.N. member states, led by Colombia, have pushed for the first woman  secretary-general. Four of those countries, Japan, Spain, Uruguay and Venezuela are in the security council.
But hopes for a woman to lead the United Nations appear to be fading. Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said this week that was because "the people who have spoken so loudly about the need to support a woman have not done that when it came to the actual straw poll."
Guterres was prime minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002 and served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from June 2005 to December 2015.
Diplomats said the council aimed to recommend a candidate to the 193-member General Assembly for election by October. Ultimately, the five permanent veto-wielding council members - the United States, Russia, Britain, China and France - must agree on a candidate.
ADDIS ABABA (Reuters) - South Sudan's government on Friday agreed to allow a regional protection force to be deployed in the country, a regional development group said, following fighting between rival groups last month in the country's capital, Juba.
Such a force has been a key demand of former vice president Riek Machar, the leader of one of the factions involved in last month's fighting.
The agreement was reached at a summit meeting in Ethiopia of the leaders of the eight countries in the group, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development.
"The government of South Sudan has accepted (the deployment of troops) with no condition," Mahboub Maalim, IGAD's executive secretary, told reporters after the meeting.
Fighting broke out in July between forces loyal to President Salva Kiir and to Machar, his long-time rival, who had been serving as vice president but who left Juba after the fighting. He has since been replaced as vice president.
Machar had also served as vice president from 2011, when South Sudan gained independence, until he was sacked by Kiir in 2013. After two years of fighting between his forces and Kiir's, Machar returned to Juba in April and resumed the position of vice president as part of a peace agreement.
He left again after the new clashes broke out, killing at least 272 people. He said he would return only if an intervention force was deployed to separate his forces and those of Kiir.
Politics in South Sudan have long been plagued by splits and rivalries as leaders switch allegiances in a complex contest for power and influence in the oil-producing nation, which gained independence from Sudan only five years ago.
Kiir sacked six ministers allied to Machar earlier this week, replacing them with people allied to the new vice president, Taban Deng Gai. That further widened the political division in South Sudan and threatened to lead to more violence.
IGAD's Maalim said Deng Gai, who attended the meeting in Ethiopia, had said he could step down for Machar if he returns to Juba. Deng Gai was not immediately available to comment.
Maalim said military chiefs from member states would travel to Juba, to work with the government there on the deployment of the new force, without giving more details.
Earlier in the day, South Sudan rejected accusations from the U.N. that its soldiers had raped and killed civilians during last month's clashes.
On Thursday, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, said at least 217 cases of sexual violence in Juba had been documented during the period of July 8 to July 25.
Lul Ruai Koang, the government's military spokesman, said the U.N., through the peacekeeping UNMISS force, should provide evidence that government soldiers were involved in the crimes, adding that they had not received any formal complaints.
BUDAPEST (Reuters) - Hungary is considering a request from Turkey to shut local institutions Ankara suspects of having links to what it calls the terrorist group behind last month's thwarted coup attempt, the foreign ministry said on Friday.
More than 60,000 people in the Turkish military, judiciary, civil service and education have been detained, suspended or placed under investigation following the July 15 coup attempt that President Tayyip Erdogan has blamed on U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen and his wide network of schools and businesses.
The purge has prompted fears among Western allies and rights groups that Erdogan is using the events to crack down on dissent. Turkey has issued an arrest warrant for Gulen, who denies any role in the failed putsch.
Gulen's "Hizmet" (Service) movement runs some 2,000 educational establishments in about 160 countries, teaching a secular curriculum in English. Ankara suspects these schools and other Gulen-linked businesses help fund the movement.
Kazakhstan announced earlier on Friday it would expel any Turkish teachers there found to have links with Gulen. Somalia has closed two Gulen schools and a hospital and Turkish pressure to shut down Gulen-affiliated institutions has been reported from countries as diverse as Germany, Kenya and Indonesia.
Hungary's foreign ministry said Turkey had requested the closure of "some institutions and organisations operating in Hungary which it says are linked with and provide intellectual and financial support to the terrorist organisation potentially associated with the coup attempt".
"Hungarian authorities will take measures against the institutions in question only if any connection between the institutions and terrorism is proved unequivocally," it said.
The ministry statement, emailed to Reuters, did not identify the institutions involved. Officials at the Turkish embassy in Budapest were not immediately available for comment.
Hungarian news portal index.hu reported the target could be the Orchidea International private school in Budapest.
Orchidea Assistant Principal Balazs Orosz told Reuters that the school, which has two units in Budapest, had not been approached by either the Hungarian or the Turkish government.
Orosz said the two units, which have about 500 pupils, were financed from Hungarian public funds and fees paid by parents.
"Our only link with Turkey is that there are Turkish colleagues in the board of trustees of the foundation managing the school and there are a handful of Turkish pupils in our two units," he said.
Efkan Unlu, a representative of the Prizma foundation that runs the school, denied to Reuters that the foundation or the Orchidea school had any links to Gulen.
"There are four Turkish teachers among the roughly 50 teachers in our school. They are not members of any political organisation," Unlu said.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi hinted on Friday that he hoped he would be hosting Hillary Clinton rather than Donald Trump at a G7 leaders' meeting in southern Italy next year.
"I respect every vote of our American friends," Renzi told reporters in Rio de Janeiro just hours before the city was due to hold the Olympic Games opening ceremony.
"I will host the G7 in Taormina in May 2017 and obviously as a democrat I hope I can host the new president, whoever she will be," he said, grinning. "But as prime minister I will wait for the next president of the United States."
Billionaire Trump, who won the Republican Party nomination, and former U.S. Secretary of State Clinton, a Democrat, will contest the U.S. presidential election in November.
(Reuters) - U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump on Friday announced his team of economic advisers, which includes a hedge fund manager, a former top steel executive, and a former high-ranking U.S. government official.
Trump said he would deliver a speech on his economic policy plan on Monday.
Here are some facts on members of his economic team:
Paulson is best known on Wall Street for his bet against the overheated housing market in 2007 that netted him and his investors billions of dollars in profits. But Paulson’s calls on stocks and the economy have been less accurate lately. His investments have lost some $15 billion in assets in the last five years, leaving his Paulson & Co Inc hedge fund with roughly $13 billion at the end of June. He is known for making contrarian bets and being patient.
He has been one of only a handful of hedge fund managers to have publicly endorsed Trump, with many others saying privately that they are still on the fence or leaning toward his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.
Feinberg is chief executive officer of Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private equity firm he co-founded in 1992.
He headed the investment firm during its failed takeover of automaker Chrysler in 2007. The investment firm served as Chrysler's majority owner until the troubled car maker was restructured in a government-sponsored bankruptcy in 2009.
Feinberg had promised to revive the company, according to a New York Times profile, but instead lost billions. Feinberg has defended his role to try to save the carmaker. He ultimately had to appeal to Washington for help.
Malpass served under two previous Republican administrations, first as a deputy assistant Treasury secretary for President Ronald Reagan and later as a deputy assistant Secretary of State for President George H.W. Bush.
Malpass, in a CNBC interview on Friday, called for greater infrastructure spending as well as tax cuts, trade reform, regulatory reform and energy reform, although he gave few specfics. "We need more effective spending, and Trump wants to do that - to have stronger finances for the country," he said.
Malpass has been a vocal critic of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monetary policy since the financial crisis, in particular its large bond holdings.
Malpass, who was also chief economist at investment bank Bear Stearns, now runs Encima Global Llc, an investment consulting firm.
Navarro is the only adviser on the list with a Ph.D. in economics, and the only one who has spent most of his life as an academic. He earned his doctorate at Harvard University and is now a professor of economics and public policy at the University of California, Irvine's business school.
Navarro has written nine books, three of them critical about China’s effect on the rest of the world, including “Death by China: Confronting the Dragon – A Global Call to Action.” He thinks the United States should be tougher on trade and intellectual property theft, and has proposed slapping a 45 percent tariff on Chinese imports.
Navarro recently wrote in an opinion piece in the Los Angeles Times that Trump would crack down on any country “that cheats on its trade deals using practices such as currency manipulation and illegal export subsidies.”
Lorber is president and CEO of holding company Vector Group Ltd, whose three subsidiaries make cigarettes as well as e-cigarettes. It also operates two real estate subsidiaries: a real estate investment company and a real estate brokerage firm.
A fellow New Yorker, Trump's campaign has mentioned Lorber as one of Trump's best friends.
The two travelled together to Russia in the 1990s, according to news reports.
A former partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc who now works in entertainment financing, Mnuchin is chairman and CEO of private investment firm Dune Capital Management LP.
Trump named Mnuchin, who had a long history of political donations to Democrats, including to Hillary Clinton, as his finance chair in May.
Mnuchin has said he has had a personal and professional relationship with Trump for more than 15 years. 
DiMicco is the former chief executive and executive chairman of steel producer Nucor Corp, one of the biggest U.S. steelmakers.
His outspoken push for tougher U.S. trade policies to support domestic manufacturing and his fierce anti-China rhetoric have made him one of the most high-profile executives in the steel industry.
In recent years, he has taken his campaign for new trade rules online and has publicly endorsed Trump's call for a tougher approach on trade.
"You don't win a Trade War with appeasement or more Free Trade agreements," DiMicco wrote in a July 10 blog post on his website, www.dandimicco.com.
Moore is one of the leading conservative economic voices in the United States. He embraces tax cuts as key to economic growth, as well as free trade and immigration reform.
Moore founded the anti-tax advocacy group Club for Growth, where he served until he left the organisation in 2004. He later served as a member of The Wall Street Journal editorial board.
He is currently a fellow at the conservative think tank The Heritage Foundation, focusing on economic growth.
Barrack is a longtime friend of Trump and a fellow hotel developer.
He is the founder and executive chairman of private equity firm Colony Capital Inc and is co-chairman of the board of trustees of Colony Starwood Homes.
Barrack spoke out in favour of Trump at the Republican National Convention in July, but afterwards his company announced it was dropping out of Trump's Old Post Office hotel project in Washington, according to a report in The Washington Post.
MADRID (Reuters) - Spanish police said on Friday they had arrested five alleged members of the so-called "Pink Panther" gang of jewel thieves in Barcelona.
A special operations unit from the Catalan police was waiting when the thieves, one armed with a pistol, tried to rob a jewellery store on the city's famous Passeig de Gracia avenue, a police statement said.
The operation was part of a larger investigation with different crime units in Spain, and with the collaboration of the Serbian and German police, the statement said.
Police were able to recover the jewellery the gang was trying to steal.
The Pink Panther gang got their nickname after a 2003 London robbery when a thief hid a diamond in a pot of beauty cream, similar to the plot of one of the Pink Panther movies about an inept French detective played by English actor Peter Sellers.
Interpol, the international crime-fighting agency, estimates the Pink Panther network has stolen more than 334 million euros  ($369.57 million) worth of jewellery in around 380 armed robberies between 1999 and 2015.
($1 = 0.9038 euros)
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Kazakhstan will expel any Turkish teacher linked to an Islamic cleric Ankara accuses of engineering an abortive coup, President Nursultan Nazarbayev said after meeting his Turkish counterpart Tayyip Erdogan.
Turkey blames followers of the U.S.-based preacher Fethullah Gulen for trying to overthrow Erdogan on July 15. More than 240 people were killed and 2,000 wounded in the night of violence.
Gulen's followers, who practice a moderate form of Islam, have opened an estimated 1,000 schools in dozens of countries, with a special focus on science-based secular education.
Before former allies Gulen and Erdogan publicly fell out in 2010, the schools were considered a key instrument in expanding Turkey's clout overseas. They were active in Central Asia where several countries, including Kazakhstan, speak Turkic languages.
"It is not in our interest to do something against Turkey. We have reached an agreement," Nazarbayev said at a news conference in Ankara. He is the first head of state to visit Turkey since the failed military intervention.
The Kazakh government will seek new teachers from Turkey to replace any it sends back, Nazarbayev also said. He stopped short of saying he would close the 30 Gulen-affiliated schools in Kazakhstan that educate 9,000 students.
About 90 percent of the teachers at the schools are Kazakh citizens, and 8 to 9 percent are Turkish nationals, he said.
Even before the coup, Erdogan had lobbied allies to shut Gulen-linked schools, a main source of income for the movement.
(Reuters) - A former top CIA official attacked Donald Trump on Friday as a danger to national security, saying President Vladimir Putin had made the Republican presidential candidate an "unwitting agent" of Russia.
Putin had flattered Trump into supporting positions favorable to Russia, Michael Morell, a longtime CIA officer and former deputy director of the agency, said in an opinion piece in The New York Times.
"In the intelligence business, we would say that Mr. Putin had recruited Mr. Trump as an unwitting agent of the Russian Federation," Morell said, in an article in which he endorsed Trump's rival in the Nov. 8 election, Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Morell did not provide evidence for his assertion, but he said Putin had used skills from his past as an intelligence officer to identify and exploit vulnerabilities in an individual.
"That is exactly what he did early in the primaries. Mr. Putin played upon Mr. Trump’s vulnerabilities by complimenting him. He responded just as Mr. Putin had calculated," Morell wrote.
Trump's campaign dismissed Morell's criticism, linking the ex-CIA officer to the Obama administration's public response after the September 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya.
"Count how many reporters will tweet today that Michael Morell lied for #CrookedHillary to cover up Benghazi," Trump's campaign said in a Twitter message.
The incident, in which the U.S. ambassador and three other Americans were killed, occurred while Clinton was secretary of state, and Republicans have long criticized her handling of the attack and its aftermath.
Critics say administration officials tried to play down the role of Islamist militants in the attacks. Morell approved talking points after the incident. U.S. officials have said any reference to militants taking part was initially dropped for classification reasons.
Morell is currently affiliated with Beacon Global Strategies, a consulting firm with ties to senior Democrats with national security expertise, including former defense secretary and CIA director Leon Panetta and former top Clinton aide Philippe Reines. 
Trump's vice presidential running mate, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, on Friday dismissed Morell's comments, saying that  "standing up to Russian aggression is going to be really different under a Trump-Pence administration."
"These people are playing politics," Pence said of Morell in an interview on NBC's "Today" program.
Morell's article, in which he also said Trump had undermined U.S. security with his campaign proposal to combat terrorism by imposing a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country, added to questions raised by some national security experts about the New York businessman's qualifications to be president.
On Thursday, a bipartisan group of experts criticized Trump's lukewarm support for the NATO alliance, comments about Russia's annexation of Crimea and other matters as "disgraceful."
Trump has also drawn criticism for his praise for Putin as a strong leader, particularly after Moscow came under suspicion from U.S. officials as being behind recent hacking of Democratic Party groups. Moscow has denied the allegations.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Friday that the fight against extremist groups in Syria must be stepped up because they are using poison gas on civilians.
Lavrov and Kerry discussed the Syria conflict in a phone call, the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.
The two men spoke a day after Moscow sharply criticised U.S. behaviour in Syria, accusing Washington of backing rebels who use poison gas against civilians and of killing hundreds in air strikes.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Emperor Akihito will make a video address to the nation on Monday, the Imperial Household Agency said, amid media reports that the 82-year-old monarch wants to abdicate.
Public broadcaster NHK reported last month that the emperor, who has had heart surgery and been treated for prostate cancer, had expressed his intention to abdicate in a few years.
Ordinary Japanese sympathise with Akihito's desire to retire, but Japan currently has no legal provision for abdication. The idea faces stiff opposition from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's conservative base, who worry abdication will trigger debate about allowing a woman to become emperor.
"I think the Japanese people want to allow the emperor to abdicate," said Miiko Kodama, a professor emeritus at Musashi University.
"However, it would be unfortunate for the Crown Prince if he takes the throne because the people do not have the same emotional response to him as they do to the Emperor."
The video address will be aired at 3 p.m. (0600 GMT), said the Imperial Household Agency, the government department responsible for imperial matters.
Akihito has been cutting back on official duties recently, his place taken by his heir, 56-year-old Crown Prince Naruhito.
Conservatives have raised objections to changing the law to let Akihito step down. Some worry that if the government even starts debate on changing the law, some liberal politicians will take that as an opportunity to push for women to be allowed to become emperor or other reforms.
Naruhito has only one daughter. Since only males can inherit the Chrysanthemum Throne, the throne after Naruhito would pass to his brother, Prince Akishino, and then to nine-year-old nephew Hisahito.
Before Hisahito's birth, no male had been born into the imperial family for more than four decades. This prompted discussion of equal inheritance for women, a move opposed by traditionalists eager to preserve a male line they believe goes back more than 2,000 years.
GUWAHATI, India (Reuters) - Gunmen in military uniforms sprayed bullets and flung grenades into a crowded market in northeast India on Friday, killing at least 13 people in a rampage authorities blamed on a regional separatist group.
A further 15 people were wounded in the attack on the outskirts of Kokrajhar town, one of the deadliest in recent years in the state of Assam, a region with a history of sectarian and separatist bloodshed.
The assailants, one of whom was shot dead by security forces, arrived by auto-rickshaw, witnesses said. Troops were in pursuit of three or four others hiding in a nearby forest, Assam police chief Mukesh Sahay told reporters.
He attributed the attack - for which no one had claimed responsibility - to the outlawed National Democratic Front of Bodoland (Songbijit) group, a militant faction fighting for a separate homeland for the indigenous Bodo tribespeople.
Sahay said police had recovered an AK-47 rifle and explosives from the as yet unidentified dead gunman, as well as the assailants' three-wheeler.
A senior home ministry official in New Delhi also said preliminary reports indicated the attack was carried out by the group. "Police have launched a hunt to trace insurgents... It is a militant attack and we will be sending a team from Delhi to investigate further," the official said.
The dead included eight men and five women and several were members of the Bodo community, local senior police officer L. R. Bishnoi said.
Like much of India's remote and underdeveloped northeast, Assam has been racked by a hotchpotch of ethnic and tribal insurgencies for decades.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won power in Assam for the first time in May after campaigning on a promise to disenfranchise Bangladeshi Muslim immigrants while also pledging to increase spending in the state.
"This attack is intended to destabilise peace in Assam," said Himanta Biswa Sarma, the state's finance and health minister and a member of the BJP.
Violence in Assam and the wider northeast has eased as several militant groups have called ceasefires, although attacks by one community against another are not uncommon.
Militants fighting for a Bodo homeland killed at least 70 people, most of them Muslims or tea-plantation workers from other parts of India, in a series of attacks in Assam in 2014.
KABUL (Reuters) - When police stopped a van that was travelling across central Afghanistan to the western city of Herat, they were in for a big surprise: it was full of Western tourists.
The visitors' presence in one of the world's most dangerous countries made headlines on Thursday after their vehicle, now under police escort, was caught in a suspected Taliban ambush.
It is debatable whether the presence of security forces endangered the tourists' lives or saved them - at least five foreigners were slightly wounded.
But their trip across a stretch of country widely seen to be risky underlined the dangers such travellers face, and the difficulty Afghanistan's stretched police force has in protecting them.
"Because of the police they're alive," said a senior Interior Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity. "Otherwise they would all be dead."
In the van, which was badly burned in the attack, were six Britons, two Americans and a German, part of a steady trickle of visitors lured by the stunning beauty of the landscapes and landmarks and, in some cases, by the thrill of danger.
In this instance, the group had set out from Bamiyan, once home to giant Buddha statues carved into the cliffs until they were destroyed by the Taliban in 2001.
They were driving west to Herat, an ancient city near the Iranian border renowned for its citadel and blue-tiled mosque.
The Afghan government welcomes travel to what it considers safe areas, where Taliban militants, seeking to topple the government and return to power, are not deemed a threat.
Even then visitors are encouraged to fly, rather than drive between destinations whenever possible, said Zardasht Shams, deputy minister of Information and Culture.
"The (convoy) in Herat was not coordinated with us," he said, adding that many tourists visited the country last year without incident. "We do encourage tourists to come and visit Afghanistan, but after checking with us first."
After an Indian woman was kidnapped from downtown Kabul in June, officials sparked controversy by telling expatriate residents to hire guards or use police escorts.
Bamiyan, which also boasts Afghanistan's first national park, is seen as relatively secure, the Interior ministry official said.
"In such places we have no concerns," he told Reuters. "But when they go elsewhere, we expect them to take extra measures. Unfortunately some do not."
Several tour operators catering to Westerners said they had not made the drive from Bamiyan to Herat for several years because of concerns over security.
"The main issue over the last few years has been driving between cities," said James Willcox, a founder of British-based Untamed Borders.
The company offers hiking in the remote Wakhan Corridor in the northeast, horse trekking and even heli-skiing in the rugged Afghan mountains.
But the last time it offered the driving route to Herat was in 2009.
"When we first started, we could drive from Kabul to Herat along the central route ... but as time's gone on, security has gotten worse between cities," Willcox said.
The handful of operators who bring international tourists to Afghanistan say increasing violence has led them to curtail some travel in recent months.
Major suicide bombings have rocked Kabul this year, and areas of Helmand in the south and Kunduz in the north are regularly hit by fierce battles between troops and insurgents. Smaller, more sporadic attacks occur across the country.
Willcox said he had not had any cancellations yet since Thursday's incident. Untamed Borders took around 50 clients on trips to Afghanistan in 2015 and expects to escort another 60 this year, he added.
For Jonny Blair, who went to Afghanistan with Untamed Borders in January, the lure of the country's famous sites and natural beauty overrode any fears.
"I grew up in Northern Ireland, so I'm used to seeing guns," he said.
Local residents were nothing but welcoming, Blair said, and he never felt threatened. "I definitely would go back."
Marc Leaderman, head of group tours at Wild Frontiers, another British firm, said his company had no plans to bring any visitors this year.
"We've noticed a distinct drop in interest, and that's combined with our own concerns over the decline in security," he said. "This is the first year in a while that we haven't brought at least 40 to 50 people."
Foreign tour operators deny that they cater to thrill-seekers.
"We're not about taking people to dangerous places but rather introducing them to an amazing country," said Leaderman.
Wild Frontiers' clients in Afghanistan have ranged from people in their 20s to those in their 80s, and included a British military history buff and another individual who had first visited the country as a hippie in the 1960s.
"Everyone seems to have their own reason for coming to Afghanistan," said Leaderman, who acknowledged the trips were usually against the advice of the British Embassy.
"It's not something people take lightly."
The tragedy of the attack in Herat, Willcox said, was that it would lead to more headlines framing Afghanistan as nothing other than a dangerous place.
"Central Asia is not really on people's radar, and they usually only know about Afghanistan because of the conflict," he said. "But that's just one part. It's a very interesting and beguiling place to experience."
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece on Thursday rescued 70 migrants at sea, the largest single influx from neighbouring Turkey since a failed coup there last month, authorities said.
Refugee and migrant arrivals to Greek islands from Turkey, running into the thousands daily this time a year ago, have largely ebbed after a deal between Ankara and the European Union in March to stem the flow of people, mostly fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and North Africa.
The Greek coastguard picked up 67 people on board a dinghy off the island of Lesbos, while another three were plucked to safety after falling into the water.
"There was a boat with 70 people on board in distress," a coastguard official told Reuters.
On Wednesday, the Greek coastguard picked up 38 people from a Sierra Leone-flagged vessel in the southern Peloponnese, off the town of Githeon.
Hundreds of thousands of refugees entered Greece by crossing the narrow sea corridor between Lesbos and the Turkish shores last year. Since March, arrivals have fallen sharply.
Greece's Migration Minister Yiannis Mouzalas said on Wednesday the deal with Turkey was largely holding, though Athens was watching developments in the neighbouring country with some concern.
Asked what would happen if the deal with Turkey collapses, he told Greece's Skai TV on Thursday: "If we assume the flow resumes, we will be sorely tested. No country is in a position to handle such flows."
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan vowed on Thursday to choke off businesses linked to the U.S.-based cleric he blames for an attempted coup. The 75-year-old cleric denies the allegations.
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nepal's new Maoist Prime Minister Prachanda named a minority leader to the key position of home minister in his first appointments on Thursday, seeking reconciliation after months of protests by southern plainsfolk over a new constitution.
The 61-year-old former rebel commander has vowed to tackle the grievances of the Madhesi minority that demands a greater say in central government by amending the constitution adopted last September.
The Madhesis, who have close cultural and family ties with neighbouring India, have staged protests against the charter, saying it marginalized them by dividing their southern homeland into several states.
Violence, blamed by many Madhesis on the use of excessive police force, claimed more than 50 lives in the protests that petered out in February.
Prachanda appointed Bimalendra Nidhi of the centrist Nepali Congress, the biggest coalition party, as deputy prime minister in charge of the home ministry, officials said.
Among those appointed to the cabinet was Krishna Bahadur Mahara from Prachanda's Maoist party, who will also be a deputy prime minister in charge of the finance ministry.
"Initially only a few people will represent in the cabinet, more will join later," said Prakash Sharan Mahat, an official of the Nepali Congress.
Prachanda, whose real name is Pushpa Kamal Dahal, still uses his wartime pseudonym, which means "fierce". He has promised to keep his cabinet small, after predecessor K.P. Oli was criticized for appointing a 32-member coalition with six deputy prime ministers.
MADRID (Reuters) - A park ranger died and about 700 people have been evacuated as a wildfire blazed out of control on the Spanish island of La Palma, emergency services said on Thursday.
Francisco Jose Santana, a married father of five, was killed while fighting the fire which started on Wednesday and is being fanned by high winds.
Spanish police said they had arrested a 27-year-old German man who, according to a source from the investigation, has admitted to starting the fire accidentally. Spanish media reported that he had tried to burn used toilet paper.
The last major fire on the island, part of the Canary Islands, was in 2009 when 4,000 people were evacuated. The island is a popular tourist destination and the wildfire comes at the height of a record summer holiday season.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the first days of September, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday.
The two will meet in the port city of Vladivostok in Russia's Far East, on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum, an annual business conference hosted by Russia. The forum will take place Sept. 2-3.
Peskov told journalists that Putin would also meet South Korean President Park Geun-hye.
DHAKA (Reuters) - A court in Bangladesh on Thursday allowed police to detain two men over an attack claimed by militant group Islamic State on a cafe in the capital, Dhaka, that killed 20 hostages, mostly foreigners.
The case has drawn criticism from human rights groups who say the suspects were illegally detained and denied access to a lawyer. A lawyer for one of the two men, Hasnat Karim, said his client was innocent and demanded his immediate release.
Karim, who holds dual British and Bangladeshi citizenship, and Tahmid Hasib Khan, a student of Toronto University, were dining separately with family and friends when gunmen stormed the Holey Artisan Bakery on the evening of July 1.
The suspected Islamist militants singled out non-Muslims and foreigners, killing Italians, Japanese, an American and an Indian before security forces stormed the eatery to end the 12-hour siege. Two police also died in the operation.
On Thursday, a Dhaka court remanded the men in custody for eight days for interrogation, with police official Masudur Rahman telling reporters they had been arrested on Wednesday night "from two different places".
The police assertion of arrests at different sites appeared to run counter to relatives' statements that the men were held at unknown locations after the attack.
"The authorities have finally admitted that Mr Karim is in their custody," his London-based lawyer, Rodney Dixon, told Reuters in a statement.
"They have had more than sufficient time to make any inquiries. There is clearly no evidence to charge him and he should be let go without any further delay."
Rights group Amnesty International has criticised the detention of the men as having denied them their fundamental right to legal representation.
The formal arrests take to seven the tally for the cafe attack, which the government blames on local militants, along with another, on July 26, in which police killed nine militants believed to be plotting a similar assault.
The government has dismissed suggestions that Islamic State has a presence in Bangladesh, even though 'selfies' of some of the attackers posing with an automatic rifle were posted on the jihadi group's propaganda outlets during the siege.
In the past year, al Qaeda and Islamic State have made competing claims over the killings of liberals and religious minorities in the mostly Muslim nation of 160 million.
Karim and Khan were among 32 survivors rescued by police and taken into custody for questioning. Police released the others soon after, but the two men's families said they had not returned.
Karim, a 47-year-old engineer, was at the cafe with his family to celebrate his daughter's 13th birthday.
Relatives of Khan, 22, told the New York Times that the student, who has epilepsy, had been beaten and denied medical attention after being held.
Khan's father, reached by telephone, declined to comment.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China is to set up an anti-terrorism alliance with Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan, state media said on Thursday, as it seeks to boost coordination with neighbours to tackle what it says is a growing domestic militant threat.
Fang Fenghui, a member of the powerful Central Military Commission which controls China's armed forces, hosted a meeting with his counterparts on Wednesday in Urumqi, capital of the western Xinjiang region, where officials say they are battling Islamist militants.
The four countries recognised the serious threat of terrorism and extremism to regional stability, the official Xinhua news agency said, and they agreed to set up a "four-country mechanism" for intelligence sharing and training.
"All parties reaffirmed they will cooperate to respond to these forces, and safeguard all member countries' peace and stability," Xinhua said.
Afghan army chief of general staff, General Qadam Shah Shaheem, Pakistani army chief General Raheel Sharif, and the Chief of General Staff of the Tajikistan armed forces, Major General E. A. Cobidrzoda, took part in the talks, the news agency said.
The meeting comes after China's defence minister this week thanked Afghanistan's Shaheem for support in fighting the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) an Islamist group that China  says wants to set up a separate state in Xinjiang.
China did not elaborate on the help it got.
China has long been concerned that instability in Afghanistan will spill over into violence-prone Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, where hundreds of people have died in recent years in unrest Beijing blames on extremists.
The United States and the United Nations have listed ETIM as a terrorist group, though some experts have questioned its cohesiveness and say China's policies in Xinjiang have contributed to unrest.
China denies that its policies stoke tension in Xinjiang or motivate Uighurs to join Islamic State militants, though it acknowledges some have gone to Syria and Iraq to join the group.
China is also working with Pakistan and the United States to broker peace talks to end a Taliban insurgency that has raged for 15 years in Afghanistan.
That effort never got beyond exploratory talks and appeared to break down completely when Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour was killed in a U.S. drone strike in Pakistan in May.
Sources in the Taliban told Reuters that a Taliban delegation visited China in July, though Chinese officials have not confirmed it.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra on Thursday criticised a military-backed draft constitution as a "folly" that would perpetuate the power of the ruling junta and make it impossible for future elected governments to rule.
The country will decide in a referendum on Sunday whether to accept the constitution in the biggest test of public opinion since the generals seized power in 2014. A vote in favour of the charter could give the military a permanent role in overseeing economic development and politics.
As about 3,000 students, civil servants and military cadets gathered in Bangkok to urge people to vote, Thaksin said in a statement emailed to Reuters the charter was a "nightmare of contradiction and confusion".
"The drafters ... created a constitution for the 'continuity' of the absolute power of the present coup makers to continue even after the new constitution is proclaimed," he said in response to a question about his opinion on the referendum.
The ruling military council has said the charter will pave the way for a general election in 2017, ensure clean politics and end more than a decade of political turmoil since Thaksin, his allies and their rural supporters challenged the royalist and military establishment.
Thaksin, a former telecommunications tycoon who won the loyalty of legions of poor voters with populist policies, was toppled in a 2006 coup. He lives in self-exile to avoid a graft conviction he says was politically motivated.
Thailand's two biggest political parties, one of which is loyal to Thaksin, oppose the constitution because they say provisions are designed to ensure military supervision of politics.
The constitution would put so much power in the hands of bodies tasked with acting as counter-balances to governments that it would make Thailand ungovernable, Thaksin said.
"I predict that, even if the new government receives perfect endorsement from the present regime, it will find it impossible to manage the Thai economy or administer the country under those proposed conditions," he said.
The junta, known as the National Council for Peace and Order, has said it wants to return Thailand to democracy but to ensure politicians put the people's interests first.
However, Reuters interviews with senior military officers belie those claims and show that the military's ambition is to make future coups unnecessary by weakening political parties.
Under the proposed charter, which would replace one torn up following the 2014 coup, a junta-appointed Senate with seats reserved for military commanders would check the powers of elected lawmakers.
The vote comes against the back-drop of concern about the health of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 88. The military has for decades invoked its duty as defender of the deeply revered monarch to justify its interventions in politics.
The junta has promised a general election in 2017 if the constitution is approved. A 'no' vote could usher in more uncertainty.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, who is also junta leader, has said he would come up with another charter if this one is rejected.
Crowds gathered at central Bangkok's Royal Plaza on Thursday as cars bearing banners urging people to vote set off around the capital.
The government has banned provocative criticism of the charter and detained dozens of activists. Referendum rules also ban anyone from campaigning for either side, so people carried neutral signs, urging voters to cast ballots.
About 50 million Thais are eligible to vote in the referendum and the Election Commission has said it expects an 80 percent turnout.
The junta has broadcast songs and television programmes to drum up enthusiasm.
"Everyone in the country ... must come out to exercise their right to vote," said Supachai Somcharoen, chairman of the Election Commission.
"This is the big day."
GENEVA (Reuters) - Government soldiers and security forces in South Sudan executed civilians and gang-raped women and girls during and after ethnically-charged fighting last month in the capital Juba, the United Nations said on Thursday.
Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, called on the government of President Salva Kiir to prosecute perpetrators and urged world powers in the U.N. Security Council to take "urgent action" to halt violence.
"While some civilians were killed in crossfire between the fighting forces, others were reportedly summarily executed by Government (SPLA) soldiers, who appear to have specifically targeted people of Nuer origin," Zeid said in a statement.
Kiir fired six ministers allied to his long-time rival Riek Machar late on Tuesday, widening a political rift in the world's newest state and drawing threats of more fighting.
Zeid, reporting on his office's investigation, cited two separate incidents on 11 July in which SPLA soldiers reportedly arrested eight Nuer civilians during house-to-house searches in Juba’s Munuki area and took them to two nearby hotels, "where they shot four of them".
On the same day, SPLA soldiers broke into another hotel where they shot and killed a Nuer journalist.
At least 73 civilian deaths have been documented so far by the U.N., but it is believed the civilian death toll may turn out to be "much higher", Zeid said.
"The fighting also resulted in widespread sexual violence, including rape and gang rape by soldiers in uniform and men in plain clothes," he said, adding that Nuer, Dinka and women from the three Equatorial states were all targeted, along with foreign nationals.
At least 217 cases of sexual violence in Juba had been documented during the period of July 8-25, he said.
"In a few areas, women from various ethnic groups were raped by heavily armed youth believed to be affiliated to the SPLA in Opposition (SPLA/IO)," Zeid said.
"However, according to the information we have gathered so far, those most affected were displaced Nuer women and girls and those responsible seem to have been mostly SPLA."
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's new defence minister, known for her revisionist views of Japan's wartime actions, declined on Thursday to say whether Japan liberated or invaded Asian countries before World War Two or if Japanese troops massacred civilians in China.
Tomomi Inada, a 57-year old ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) lawmaker and close ally of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, took up her post on Thursday, a day after being appointed.
"Whether you would describe Japan's actions as an invasion depends on one's point of view. I don't think it is appropriate for me to comment" Inada said at a briefing at her ministry when asked repeatedly to clarify her views on wartime history.
Her failure to condemn Japan's actions up to and during World War Two could anger neighbours, including China and South Korea, which have repeatedly called on Japan to apologise.
China says Japanese troops killed 300,000 people in the city of Nanjing in 1937 while a post-war Allied tribunal put the death toll at about half that number.
Some conservative Japanese politicians and academics deny that a massacre took place, or they put the toll much lower.
"It's important for the facts to be looked at objectively," Inada said.
She has called for a revamp of Japan's war-renouncing constitution to ease the constraints on the military operating overseas and has also been a regular visitor to Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine for war dead that neighbours, including China and South Korea, see as a symbol of Japan's past militarism.
Visits to the shrine by political leaders infuriate China South Korea.
When asked on Wednesday if she would visit it again ahead of the Aug. 15 anniversary of Japan's surrender in 1945, Inada declined to comment. Her predecessor at the ministry, Gen Nakatani, stayed away during his term.
Inada, who was a lawyer before becoming a lawmaker in 2005, is known for a revisionist view of World War Two that plays down or denies atrocities by Japanese troops and paints its aggression as an act of liberation against colonial powers.
She has also questioned whether Japan forced women from Korea and other countries into military brothels, In 2007, she supported a full page announcement in the Washington Post that the women had worked as licensed prostitutes.
When asked at the briefing if her view on the issue had changed, Inada declined to comment.
Inada, who was previously LDP policy chief, was one of three lawmakers reportedly denied entry into South Korea in 2011 because they planned to visit islands that both countries claim.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Amateur video taken inside a crashed Emirates Boeing 777 shows chaos as passengers try to grab their luggage from overhead compartments while one woman, apparently a flight attendant, shouts at them to evacuate the plane.
"Jump! Jump! Jump! Leave your bags behind!" the woman shouts, seconds after the burning plane came to rest on the runway of Dubai International Airport after a flight from Thiruvananthapuram in southern India.
The aisles of the plane are packed with a crush of people, some of them screaming, and oxygen masks have deployed from the ceiling of the cabin, which is dimly lit as electric lighting has been extinguished.
The passenger who took the video keeps his camera on as he slides down an inflatable emergency chute from a door of the plane, past a wing on which an engine can be seen burning.
At the bottom of the chute, passengers shout out as they search for relatives and help each other away from the crash site.
All 300 passengers and crew were safely evacuated from the plane, though one firefighter was killed on the ground. Authorities said they were investigating Wednesday's crash, which occurred after the crew apparently attempted unsuccessfully to abort a landing.
Video link:
here
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish police detained 20 suspected members of the Islamic State militant group in the southern city of Adana early on Thursday, the private Dogan news agency reported.
It said anti-terror police, supported by a helicopter, staged simultaneous raids on 22 addresses in the city after a tip-off that Islamic State cells were planning attacks.
The suspects, who included senior local figures in the group, were taken to Adana police headquarters for questioning, it said.
President Tayyip Erdogan has said Islamic State militants from the former Soviet Union were behind an attack on Istanbul's main airport in June which killed 45 people. Dozens have been detained over the attack.
Islamic State controls an area of Syria along the Turkish border, east of Adana.
The city of Adana is near the Incirlik Air Base, where U.S. personnel are stationed and which is used for air missions in the fight against Islamic State.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea could change the site of a U.S. THAAD anti-missile defence unit in the southeastern county of Seongju due to  health and environmental concerns among residents, said Yonhap News Agency, citing remarks from President Park Geun-hye.
South Korea in July announced the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system will be deployed in the farming county, triggering protests from residents worried about possible negative health and environmental impact.
"In consideration of concerns held by the residents of Seongju, we will consider a different site if there is any that the county recommends," Yonhap quoted Park as saying in a meeting with lawmakers.
(This version of the story corrects quote in third paragraph, after news agency corrected its report, to note site recommendation would be from Seongju county, not the military)
VIENTIANE (Reuters) - The Philippines is eager to join the 12-nation Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal and it has already held informal talks with the United States to do so, Trade Secretary Ramon Lopez said on Thursday.
In an interview with Reuters on the sidelines of ASEAN economy ministers meetings in Vientiane, Lopez said the key industries which would benefit would be electronics, automotives and garments.
"If you don't take part in it you might lose some opportunities while other countries are enjoying them. We'd like to be part of that," Lopez said.
"The new government is one that will keep the policy of maximizing FTA (foreign trade agreements) participation. We're close to the U.S. and we've had talks at an informal level."
The TPP has been dubbed a "mega-regional accord", and once in play would be the biggest trade pact in a generation.
It will be a boon in particular for lower cost manufacturing-led economies, with the prospect of sharp tariff cuts to markets like the United States already luring factory investment to TPP members.
Lopez said his country was in a good position to join, having separate FTAs in place with seven of the 12 countries already.
The TPP includes Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, United States and Vietnam, accounting for about 800 million people and 40 percent of the global trade.
For the Philippines, the TPP, which covers a trade area worth $28 trillion of GDP, would open up the North American and the South American markets.
John Goyer, senior director for Southeast Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said on the sidelines of the Laos event the signals from the new administration of President Rodrigo Duterte have been positive since he won the May election.
He said reforms would be needed though, one of the key ones being amendments to foreign equity rules, which require constitutional change and were a sticking point for the previous government.
However, suggestions to remove caps on foreign ownership in certain economic sectors were "well received" by the new government, Goyer said.
Lopez gave no timeframe for possible TPP membership, citing ratification uncertainties for the deal.
TPP negotiations concluded last year and the pact has been signed, but to take effect it requires ratification by members' respective legislatures by February 2018.
The TPP is a signature policy of U.S. President Barack Obama but its ratification before he leaves office in January next year is uncertain, with many U.S. lawmakers running for re-election in November and facing a rising tide of anti-free-trade sentiment.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States and Israel have closed many of the remaining gaps in negotiations over a new multibillion-dollar military aid package for Washington's top Middle East ally, and the two sides hope to reach a deal soon, a senior U.S. official said on Wednesday.
Jacob Nagel, acting head of Israel's national security council, wrapped up three days of closed-door discussions in Washington over a new 10-year defence pact, including a meeting with U.S. national security adviser Susan Rice.
Drawn-out aid negotiations have underscored continuing friction between U.S. President Barack Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over last year's U.S.-led nuclear deal with Iran, Israel's arch-foe. The United States and Israel have also been at odds over the Palestinians.
However, with Obama due to leave office in January, both sides have appeared increasingly determined to come to an agreement to enshrine U.S. assistance to Israel over the next decade.
“We've made progress and closed many of the remaining gaps. We hope soon to be able to reach final agreement,” the senior official told Reuters after the talks concluded. However, the  official declined to elaborate or provide a precise timetable for completing negotiations.
Raising hopes for removal of a key sticking point, Israel had signalled at the start of the talks that it might accept the Obama administration's demand that U.S. military funds, until now spent partly on Israeli arms, will eventually be spent entirely on U.S.-made weapons, according to U.S. sources.
It would mark a major concession by Netanyahu.
The right-wing Israeli leader, who has had a fraught relationship with Obama, has decided it would be best to forge a new memorandum of understand (MOU) with him rather than hoping for better terms from the next U.S. president, according to officials on both sides.
The White House has pledged to sign a new MOU that would “constitute the largest single pledge of military assistance to any country in U.S. history.”
The current pact, signed in 2007 and due to expire in 2018, gave Israel around $30 billion in foreign military financing.
U.S. negotiators are believed to have stuck to a previous offer of $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion annually for Israel under the new MOU, substantially less than the $4 billion a year Netanyahu has sought but still a sizeable increase.
A key disagreement has been over Washington’s insistence on ending a special arrangement that has allowed Israel to spend 26.3 percent of its U.S. defence aid on its own military industries rather than on American products.
Israeli officials argue that the provision, which is given to no other country receiving U.S. military assistance, was needed to maintain Israel’s "qualitative military edge" against hostile neighbours such as Iran, and that its removal would mean the loss of thousands of Israeli defence jobs.
But a congressional source briefed by the Obama administration said Israel had signalled its willingness to phase out the provision. The Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth said the White House was prepared to let Israel keep the arrangement for the first five years of the new MOU but it would be gradually phased out in the second five years, except for joint U.S.-Israeli military projects.
Another sticking point has been Washington's desire to end a provision allowing Israel to spend around $400 million annually from the package on military fuels. The two sides have also haggled over U.S. funding for Israeli missile defence.
Obama's aides want to secure a new deal before his presidency ends, seeing it as an important part of his legacy. Republican critics accuse him of not being attentive enough to Israel's security, which the White House strongly denies.
Netanyahu angered the White House in February when he suggested the agreement could wait for the next president.
But officials on both sides say Netanyahu seeks a deal now to avoid uncertainties surrounding the next president, whether Democrat Hillary Clinton or Republican Donald Trump, and also to give Israel’s defence establishment the ability to plan ahead.
JAKARTA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A Malaysian man charged with raping a 14-year-old girl has avoided prison after he married her in a case that has sparked anger from rights groups and calls for a ban on child marriage and justice for victims of sexual violence.
Ahmad Syukri Yusuf, 22, was charged with statutory rape of the girl late last year and faced up to 30 years in jail and whipping for the offence, but he later married the teenager under Islamic law, according to prosecutor Ahmad Fariz Abdul Hamid.
The prosecutor said a court in Kuching, in Malaysia's eastern state of Sarawak ruled there was no need to proceed with the case after Ahmad Syukri submitted a marriage certificate and the girl withdrew the complaint.
Delivered last week, the court ruling prompted fury from women's rights groups.
"It is very common for rapists to marry their survivors, especially when they are underage, to cover up their crime," Kuala Lumpur-based Women's Aid Organisation spokeswoman Tan Heang Lee told Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"There is usually a high risk in this kind of cases that these girls will be subject to a lifetime of sexual abuse. Her marriage is basically an extension to rape," she added.
Under Malaysia's civil laws, the legal minimum age for marriage is 18 but Muslim girls who are under 16 can obtain permission to marry from Islamic courts.
Ethnic Malays, who are Muslim, make up about 60 percent of the country's 30 million population.
There are about 16,000 girls in Malaysia who were married before their 15th birthday, according to Human Rights Watch citing the latest available government statistics in 2010.
Globally, 15 million girls are married before the age of 18 each year according to campaign group Girls Not Brides.
Ann Teo, vice-president of the Kuching-based Sarawak Women for Women Society, said accused rapists should be prevented from marrying their victims.
"It sends a message a person will be freed from his charge if he enters into this kind of marriage of convenience with the girl," Teo said.
DELHI/MUMBAI, India (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Officials launched investigations on Wednesday into child deaths in India's mica mines after the Thomson Reuters Foundation revealed children were being killed in illegal mines and their deaths covered up.
A three-month investigation in the mica-producing states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh found at least seven children have been killed since June, mining for mica, the valued mineral that puts a sparkle in make-up and car paint.
But these deaths have gone unreported as victims' families and mine operators do not want to end the illegal mining that is the only source of income in some of India's poorest regions.
Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi's child protection group Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) said these deaths in unregulated mines falling into disrepair were just the tip of the iceberg and estimated fewer than 10 percent of mica deaths are reported.
Jharkhand's Minister of Labour, Raj Paliwar, said on Wednesday he was launching an investigation immediately.
"I have ordered a probe. I have directed the Labour Commissioner to investigate and submit a report," Paliwar told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Children engaged by anybody as child labourers is illegal and we will take strong action against such people whoever they may be and however powerful they are."
Iqbal Khan, joint Secretary of Mines in Rajasthan, said the authorities were unaware of child workers in mica but would investigate.
"We will look into the matter and take necessary action," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Other officials expressed concern about the deaths of children in mining of mica, a grey, crystalline mineral that has gained prominence in recent years as an environmentally-friendly material, used by major global brands in the car and building sectors, electronics and make-up.
India is one of the world's largest producers of mica but it is estimated 70 percent of its output comes from illegal mines, many abandoned in the 1980s and 1990s due to stricter laws on deforestation and the discovery of lower cost mica substitutes.
By law children in India below the age of 18 cannot work in mines and other hazardous industries but many families living in extreme poverty rely on children to boost household income.
Investigations by the Thomson Reuters Foundation found children working in and around mica mines in northern Jharkhand, southern Bihar and in Rajasthan in India's northwest.
Dutch campaign group SOMO estimates up to 20,000 children are involved in mica mining in Jharkhand and Bihar.
Y.S. Kataria, spokesman for the Ministry of Mines, said child labour in mica mines was a serious issue.
"Children have to be protected from being exploited like this," he said.
"The government is taking steps to stop all illegal mining. For example, we are currently developing technology where we can monitor legal mines and identify illegal ones using satellites."
Kariya Munda, parliamentarian for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party from Jharkhand, voiced his concern but also expressed the difficulty in tackling this issue with illegal mining the lifeline for many families.
"I am aware that illegal mining is going on, but I also understand this is a matter of livelihood for many people since there are no other alternatives in these areas," he said.
"The central and state governments should work together to solve this problem."
State governments in India are facing pressure from mining companies and activists to grant licences to illegal mines to crack down on the black market and child labour in mica but also provide training in other industries and schooling.
Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia Director of Human Rights Watch, said this investigation exposed concerns both about right abuses around illegal mining and the risk to child workers.
"The authorities should immediately investigate violation of rights, shut down illegal mining and evaluate the failures to keep children in schools instead of being employed in the worst forms of labour," she said.
Save the Children India's Advocacy Director Bidisha Pillai said reports showing child labour is rampant in mica mining  should force the government to take immediate remedial steps.
"The government needs to check and halt the involvement of children in labour in these mines, which are functioning without regulations and precautionary practices of any kind, impacting the safety and well being of children they illegally employ," she said.
KISUMU, Kenya (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - By the time she was three months pregnant, 24-year-old Cynthia Salome had already decided that she wanted her husband's grandmother to be her midwife when it was time to give birth.
She felt more comfortable in the hands of Roselinda Akumu, the oldest midwife in the village of Manyatta, in Kenya's Kisumu county. Akumu, 78, delivered her first baby in the 1960s and has lost count of the number of mothers she has helped.
So when Salome's labour pains begun in December, her husband took her to Akumu's home. She was hoping to give birth to her first child there.
However, Akumu, one of the village's 10 traditional birth attendants who are attached to nearby Migosi Hospital, decided that the birth was complicated and the expectant mother should be admitted to hospital.
"I was in labour for a long time and gave birth in the morning of the third day," Salome told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"All this time, Roselinda was by my side," added Salome who now has a healthy, seven-month-old son.
Kisumu County in western Kenya has begun an initiative to involve traditional birth attendants in interventions to curb maternal deaths.
The midwives are taught about the dangers of unskilled deliveries and assigned the task of referring pregnant mothers to hospital.
For every referral, a traditional birth attendant at Migosi Hospital is paid 300 Kenyan shillings (around $3).
Health officials in Kisumu hope that hospital deliveries will improve the overall health of women and children.
Maurice Otieno, Kisumu county's director of health services, said that it was worrying that almost a third of pregnant women in Kisumu County were not delivering in hospital.
"The policy direction is to re-orientate traditional birth attendants, train them and task them with referral of pregnant mothers," Otieno told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
According to a 2014 report from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), 488 expectant mothers die per year in Kenya per 100,000 live births. This compares with just six deaths per 100,000 births in Germany.
Kisumu is among the counties with highest maternal mortality rate in Kenya with 495 mothers dying for every 100,000 births. In the remote and poor eastern areas like Garissa and Mandera, the maternal mortality rate is even higher.
Otieno hopes that once the hospital initiative is implemented throughout Kisumu county, the maternal death rate will fall.
So far, the number of women delivering in the pilot hospitals like Migosi has more than tripled since the intervention began in 2014.
On a typical day at Migosi Hospital, almost two dozen new mothers queue to be seen with their newborn babies. "Referrals by TBAs (traditional birth attendants) have increased the number of women coming in for clinics," said Kennedy Ondito, the doctor in charge of the hospital.
The maternity wing is also full with mothers who have recently delivered and others waiting to deliver.
"Before the intervention started, we could go a whole week without a single delivery and in a month we could deliver less than ten but now we are doing over 50 deliveries a month," Ondito told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
In case of emergencies whereby the mother or child are at risk and where the hospital is too far, traditional birth attendants are encouraged to conduct the delivery first then rush the mother to hospital.
"Our skills are still recognised because we are the first ones that the mothers see before we take them to hospital," said Roselinda Akumu, the midwife. "I can still deliver an emergency birth but after that I have to take the mother to hospital where they have better equipment. Things have changed nowadays."
The training of the traditional birth attendants has also helped in preventing mother to child transmission of HIV. This was the case with Akumu's neighbour, Phoebe Awino, 20, who is HIV positive.
"Roselinda advised me to go to hospital when I went to see her when I had abdominal pains. It was during my pre-natal clinics that I was tested and found to be HIV positive," Awino said.
She told Akumu who insisted on the importance of delivering in hospital in order not to transmit the virus to her baby.
"I was happy when I was told that my child was HIV negative. I realized that it was a good decision to give birth in hospital for me especially," Awino said.
WASHINGTON/JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (Reuters) - Donald Trump's White House campaign was in turmoil on Wednesday after he angered senior Republican Party leaders by criticizing a dead soldier's family and refusing to back the re-election campaign of House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan.
On Tuesday, Trump denied support to both Ryan and Senator John McCain in their coming primary contests, hitting back at critics in the Republican leadership who have taken him to task for his insistent public dispute with the parents of the soldier, a Muslim U.S. Army captain killed in the Iraq war.
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus was furious over the failure to endorse Ryan, who is the most senior elected Republican, and over Trump's feud with the Khan family, two Republican sources said.
"He feels like a fool," a Republican source familiar with the situation said of Priebus.
The RNC did not respond to a request for comment about Priebus.
Another Republican source said Trump's family members, who have played an influential role in his campaign, were aware that an intervention was needed to get Trump back on track. One idea being floated was to have a senior adviser travel with Trump to help him stay on message.
More than any other major figure in the Republican establishment, Priebus worked to bring Trump into the party's fold despite the New York businessman's status as an outsider. Trump, who had never previously run for public office, beat 16 rivals to become the Republican presidential nominee for the Nov. 8 election.
Ahead of last month's Republican Party Convention, the RNC chairman sought to rally the fractured party behind Trump. Priebus feels burned by Trump's string of self-inflicted wounds and his refusal to observe basic decorum by giving Ryan his support.
But in what appeared to be an effort to soothe ruffled feelings, Trump's vice presidential running mate, Mike Pence, said on Wednesday he endorsed Ryan as "a strong conservative leader" and was doing so with Trump's blessing.
The Indiana governor told Fox News that it takes time to build relationships in politics and that was exactly what Trump and Ryan were doing.
Trump has had a running dispute with the parents of Army Captain Humayun Khan since they took the stage at last week's Democratic National Convention. Khizr Khan, with his wife, Ghazala, standing by his side, cited the sacrifice of their son, who was killed by a car bomb in 2004, and criticized Trump's proposal to combat terrorism by temporarily banning Muslims from entering the United States.
Many Republican leaders, including Ryan and McCain, have criticized Trump's subsequent attacks on the parents. Even longtime ally Chris Christie, the Republican New Jersey governor, said it was inappropriate to attack the Khans.
Trump's feud with the Khans was the final straw for Republican congressman Adam Kinzinger, a former Air Force pilot and Iraq war veteran. Kinzinger, who had held off supporting Trump, told CNN on Wednesday: "I just don’t see how I get to Donald Trump anymore."
Trump, who made his comments about Ryan and McCain in an interview with The Washington Post, shrugged off the backlash.
"There is great unity in my campaign, perhaps greater than ever before. I want to thank everyone for your tremendous support. Beat Crooked H!" he wrote on Twitter early on Wednesday, referring to his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.
Campaign manager Paul Manafort told Fox News the campaign was moving in a positive direction, with Trump himself in control. "The campaign is in very good shape. We are organised. We are moving forward," Manafort said.
In Daytona, Florida, Trump said the news media's coverage of him was dishonest.
"We're doing quite well despite the fact that we get a totally false narrative," he told supporters at a rally.
At another campaign event in Florida, in Jacksonville, Trump pointed out a group of families, known as Gold Star families, who have lost loved ones in war, calling them "incredible people." He didn't mention the spat with the Khans.
Trump's always unruly campaign has been mired in disorder in recent days. On Monday, Trump fired Ed Brookover, a senior adviser hired as a liaison between the campaign and the RNC.
Ryan, who is favoured to win next week in his race against primary challenger Paul Nehlen, appeared to be trying to ignore the snub from Trump. An aide to the speaker said he would not have time to meet Trump later this week, when Trump is expected to be campaigning in Wisconsin, Ryan's home state.
The aide did not indicate whether anyone had requested a get-together of Trump and Ryan, but when asked whether they might meet to patch things up, the aide told Reuters, "The speaker has a full schedule – can’t back out of previous commitments in the (congressional) district.”
A Republican congressional aide said there was deep frustration on Capitol Hill that Trump keeps engaging in "petty spats." The aide said congressional offices that support Trump got two sets of talking points on Monday from the campaign about the Khan situation but have not heard anything from the campaign about Trump's Ryan comments.
The dissent over the Trump campaign also took other turns.
Late on Tuesday, Meg Whitman, a prominent Republican fundraiser and chief executive of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE.N), endorsed Clinton's White House bid, calling Trump an "authoritarian character" and a threat to democracy.
In better news for Trump, his campaign and the RNC jointly raised $80 million (£60 million) for his White House bid in July, the campaign said on Wednesday. That was less than the $90 million Clinton raised along with the national Democratic Party the same month, but it was a substantial bump from past months.
A former reality TV star, Trump has won support particularly from white blue-collar workers who feel neglected by the political establishment. Along with his proposed ban on Muslims, his plans have included building a wall along the Mexican border to keep out illegal immigrants and renegotiating trade agreements.
Opinion polls have shown Clinton benefiting from a boost after her party's convention last week. The RealClearPolitics average of recent national polls put her 4.5 percentage points ahead of Trump, at 46.5 percent to 42 percent.
The Detroit Economic Club, where candidates usually appear to give major economic addresses, said Trump would speak at the club on Monday.
BANGKOK, Thailand (Reuters) - Thailand votes on Sunday for a new constitution that aims to subdue political parties and give the generals a permanent role in overseeing the country's economic development, senior military officers say.
The kingdom of Thailand has a long history of coups. But interviews with officers, including two generals, show the military's ambition is to make such interventions unnecessary by weakening political parties and maintaining permanent influence over elected governments.
Future governments, they said, would be legally obliged to follow a 20-year national development plan set by the army.
Under the proposed charter, which would replace one torn up following the May 2014 coup, a junta-appointed Senate with seats reserved for military commanders would check the powers of elected lawmakers.
"They will be sitting there to make sure all the reforms will be carried out and at the same time make sure the newly elected government does exactly what they're supposed to do," General Thawip Netniyom, chief of Thailand's National Security Council (NSC), told Reuters.
The generals, he said, would be baby-sitting.
"somewhat".
One clause in the draft constitution would allow an unelected prime minister to take power in the event of a political crisis - that's what happened in 2014 when army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha led a coup against the elected government of Yingluck Shinawatra and  afterward became prime minister.
Thailand's military has always been powerful, but the 2014 coup established it as the nation's preeminent institution - arguably more powerful than even the monarchy, which faces uncertain times as the health of revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 88, fades.
It has long been assumed the military is keeping a tight grip on power to oversee the royal succession. But interviews with the generals disclosed the new constitution is part of a fundamental political restructuring guaranteeing the military a permanent role in how Thailand is run.
The draft constitution allows the military and its allies to "legally compel" future governments to execute a 20-year plan rather than their own short-sighted populist policies, said Major General Weerachon Sukondhapatipak, the deputy government spokesman.
No Thai government has ever adopted a 20-year national strategy, never mind implemented it.
The plan itself is still a work in progress, said Weerachon. Executed by both the public and private sector, it will be divided into five-year periods and provide a blueprint for reforms on social, economic and political issues.
Since helping to overthrow an absolute monarchy in what was then the Kingdom of Siam in 1932, the military has staged 19 coups, 12 of them successful, and has provided 12 of its 29 prime ministers in that time.
The junta has appeared particularly sensitive to criticism in the lead-up to the vote. Dozens of activists and politicians have been arrested in recent weeks for campaigning against the constitution.
No such restrictions apply to the "yes" vote, with the junta   broadcasting songs and television programs to drum up support for the constitutional referendum.[L4N1A72VE]
It is unclear what will happen if the draft is rejected, which would raise questions about the junta's roadmap to a promised general election next year.. Polls show a large majority of Thailand's 50 million voters are undecided.
Interviews with Thai officers show that while the military has lost  faith in civilian rule, it recognises that democracy - or the military's version of it - is integral to Thailand's development and international image.
Elected politicians, said the officers, could never be trusted to act in the national interest because voters only chose parties that promise wasteful populist policies.
"Every government policy was based on its own political interest, and that leads to many problems - corruption, inequality, dispute," said Weerachon, the deputy spokesman.
If recent governments had followed the long-term plans of  technocrats, rather than pursuing their own policies, "Thailand would be a developed country by now," he said.
The draft constitution would preclude the need for any future coups because the military, which historically has operated independently of civilian rule, would have indirect but decisive power over future governments.
"The idea is to never have another coup," said Thawip. "We wish that this won't need to happen."
It is a radical vision, and one that signals the rise of a politically ambitious class of officers not seen for a generation. They were forged by the previous coup in 2006, which overthrew populist Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.
That coup's failure to bring stability to Thailand ultimately convinced the military to get more involved in politics, not less, and to rewrite the rules of the game.
Key personnel in the 2006 coup belong to a military faction nicknamed the "Eastern Tigers," formally known as the 2nd Infantry Division of the First Army Region. Coup leader Prayuth  and his powerful deputy, Ge.l Prawit Wongsuwan, are both from "Eastern Tigers" regiments.
Thawip said it didn't matter which political party won the next election, "as long as we make sure they will follow the new constitution." The aim of the constitution was "to keep watching or controlling the government's actions (to) make sure they aren't doing anything that undemocratic."
The Jakkapong army camp in Thailand's eastern Prachin Buri province, where the Eastern Tigers hail from, is the cradle of this ambitious new generation of officers.
At the camp soldiers carry out morning drills amid signs saying 'Strong Army, Stable Country'.
Obedience, said Major Pongpon Wijitkarn, a drill instructor at the camp, is the first quality demanded of new recruits and one the military demands of civilian politicians.
"If we soldiers are ordered to do something, we do it," Pongpon said as his men marched up and down beneath a tropical sun. "If politicians don't follow through with something, we can stand over them and ensure that they follow through with their promises."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration said on Wednesday that $400 million in cash paid to Iran soon after the release of five Americans detained by Tehran was not ransom as some Republicans have charged.
The five, including Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian, were released on Jan. 16 in exchange for seven Iranians held in the United States for sanctions violations. The prisoner deal coincided with the lifting of international sanctions against Tehran.
At the time, the United States said it had settled a longstanding Iranian claim at the Iran-U.S. Claims Tribunal in The Hague, releasing $400 million in funds frozen since 1981, plus $1.3 billion in interest that was owed to Iran.
The funds were part of a trust fund Iran used before its 1979 Islamic Revolution to buy U.S. military equipment that was tied up for decades in litigation at the tribunal.
Representative Jason Chaffetz, chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, on Wednesday sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry asking him to appear at a future committee hearing to discuss the payment.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest rejected suggestions the money transfer to Iran was ransom or a secret.
   "The United States, under President Obama, has not paid a ransom to secure the release of Americans unjustly detained in Iran and we're not going to pay a ransom," he said in response to a Wall Street Journal article that said Washington secretly organized the cash airlift.
    Earnest said Republicans, who have long opposed the Iran nuclear deal, are seizing on how the money was paid to Iran as a way to undermine the deal. "They're struggling to justify their opposition to our engagement with Iran," he told a briefing.
While there have long been questions about the timing of the payment, one Iranian concern was that the Obama administration could face too much domestic political criticism if it delayed acting on the tribunal's decision.
Due to international sanctions against Iran, the payment, made in euros, Swiss francs and other currencies, had to be made in cash, U.S. officials argue.
One U.S. official said the $1.3 billion in interest was paid to Iran through the U.S. Treasury-administered Judgment Fund, which is used to pay awards against the United States.
Senior officials at the Justice Department had objected to sending cash on a plane to Iran at the same time that Iran was releasing four imprisoned Americans (the fifth American was released separately) but were overruled by the State Department, The Wall Street Journal reported in a separate story on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the discussions.
“People knew what it was going to look like, and there was concern the Iranians probably did consider it a ransom payment," the newspaper quoted one of the people as saying.
Justice Department prosecutors were also concerned that the United States would release too many Iranian convicts and drop too many pending criminal cases against people suspected of violating sanctions laws, the second Wall Street Journal report said.
Reuters was unable to independently verify the report.
In response to the report, a Department of Justice spokesman said in a statement: “The Department of Justice fully supported the ultimate outcome of the Administration’s resolution of several issues with Iran, including Hague settlement efforts, as well as the return of U.S. citizens detained in Iran. We will not comment further on internal interagency deliberations.”
A senior State Department official also responded by saying that the payment had been fully an interagency decision and that any idea that the State Department had the power to overrule was false.
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump blamed his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, who was secretary of state during Obama's first term, for launching the talks with Iran.
"Our incompetent Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, was the one who started talks to give 400 million dollars, in cash, to Iran. Scandal!" Trump said in a Twitter post.
The chairman of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, also weighed in. "The Obama-Clinton foreign policy not only means cutting a dangerous nuclear deal with the world's number one state sponsor of terrorism, it also means paying them a secret ransom with cargo planes full of cash," he said.
House Speaker Paul Ryan was more measured, saying, "If true, this report confirms our longstanding suspicion that the administration paid a ransom in exchange for Americans unjustly detained in Iran."
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian military informed the United States that rebels in the Syrian city of Aleppo launched an attack using toxic substances at 19:05 on Aug. 2, Interfax news agency reported on Wednesday, citing a Russian general.
As a result of the attack, seven people died and more than 20 people were sent to hospital, Interfax reported.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian government forces launched air strikes against six hospitals in the Aleppo area within a week in attacks that amounted to war crimes, a U.S.-based rights group said on Wednesday.
Physicians for Human Rights (PHR) said it was the worst week for attacks on medical facilities in the Aleppo region since the beginning of Syria's five-year conflict, which has killed more than 250,000 people.
The medical facilities were hit between July 23 and 31, the New York-based group said.
The city and province of Aleppo have been among the areas hardest hit by intensifying violence as peace efforts earlier this year failed and a fragile ceasefire crumbled.
"Since June, we've seen increasing reports of attacks on civilians in Aleppo and strikes on the region's remaining medical infrastructure," PHR's director of programs Widney Brown said in a statement.
"Each of these assaults constitutes a war crime," Brown said.
Government forces and their allies, with Russian backing, have advanced in recent months and imposed a siege on the rebel-held sector of Aleppo since early July, when they closed the main road from opposition areas out of the city.
"The bombings, the lack of humanitarian aid and the failure of the United Nations to deliver any kind of assistance means the death toll may soon be catastrophic," Brown said.
PHR said it has documented more than 370 attacks on 265 medical facilities during the war, and the deaths of 750 medical personnel.
Many hospitals have been hit or damaged during the five-year conflict. In April, an air strike on a hospital in rebel-held Aleppo killed dozens of people. Rebel rockets hit a hospital on the government side of the city a few days later.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A Washington transit police officer was arrested on Wednesday on charges he attempted to help the Islamic State, the U.S. Justice Department said, the first member of law enforcement facing such charges involving a government-designated terrorist group.
The suspect, Nicholas Young, 36, of Fairfax, Virginia, is alleged to have sent codes for gift cards worth $245 (£184) to an FBI informant in July. The cards were intended for mobile-messaging accounts that Islamic State uses to recruit its followers, according to court records.
Young believed the informant was an acquaintance who was working with the militant group, the documents said.
Young, an officer with the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority since 2003, had been on the radar of federal law enforcement since 2010, according to an affidavit filed in U.S. District Court in Virginia.
Metro authorities said Young was fired after his arrest on Wednesday.
According to court records, he did not have a lawyer as of Wednesday afternoon.
Young is the first law enforcement officer charged with attempting to provide material support to a designated terrorist organisation, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The Justice Department has brought Islamic State-related charges against more than 90 people since 2014.
Young did not pose a threat to Metro riders or employees during the six years he was under federal surveillance, said Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the Eastern Virginia U.S. Attorney's Office.
In 2014, he met several times with an undercover FBI agent who was posing as an eager recruit of Islamic State, according to the affidavit. He advised the agent about how to evade law enforcement as he left the United States to join the militant group.
Young sent the gift card codes after the informant told him that the group needed help setting up mobile messaging accounts, according to the affidavit. He then promised to cover his tracks: "Gonna eat the SIM card. Have a good day."
Metro General Manager Paul Wiedefeld called the charges "profoundly disturbing." In a statement, he said transit police alerted the FBI about Young and cooperated with federal agents during the investigation.
Young travelled to Libya in 2011 to support rebels trying to overthrow dictator Muammar Gaddafi, the affidavit said.
That year, he also discussed with informants ways of smuggling guns into the federal courthouse in Alexandria, Virginia, where he will appear on Wednesday.
Seamus Hughes, an expert on U.S. extremism at George Washington University in Washington, called the case against Young typical of those brought against homegrown extremists since it involved an informant.
The rise of the Islamic State "seems to have pushed him from just radical to mobilized to action," he said.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Heavily armed Brazilian police battled drug traffickers in a Rio de Janeiro slum on Wednesday, just two days before the start of the Olympic Games in a reminder of the security struggles of the host city.
A gun battle erupted between traffickers and police after they deployed some 450 officers to the Alemao favela in the north of the city to carry out dozens of arrests warrants, a spokesman said.
The sprawling slum of some 70,000 people lies next to the Galeao international airport, which is expected to receive some 500,000 passengers during the Games.
Local television showed images of scores of police in dark camouflaged fatigues firing automatic rifles and helicopters flying over the hillside favela overlooking the city.
"The gun fight is raging here and there are a lot of people who are afraid to leave the house or take their children to school," said one woman who lives in the slum, who asked not to be identified.
A police chief leading the operation was shot in the shoulder amid the gun fight, local media reported.
The battled raged on Wednesday as the Olympics torch reached Rio, a scenic, beach-side city that has long struggled with violent drug crime in the hillside slums that surround it.
Concerned with the rash of attacks in Europe, Brazil beefed up security in Rio ahead of the Games, which have been marred by political turmoil, economic crisis and the spread of the Zika virus in the host nation.
Rio expects half a million visitors for the Olympics that will be hosted by a South American nation for the first time.
The federal government in July handed the state of Rio de Janeiro 3 billion reais ($920.02 million) in emergency funds to pay the wages of police as the cash-strapped local government struggles to honour its own payroll.
($1 = 3.2608 Brazilian reais)
HARARE (Reuters) - Anti-riot police used batons to break up a peaceful march in Zimbabwe's capital on Wednesday, the latest public protest against how President Robert Mugabe's government has handled the economy.
Mugabe, 92, and in power since independence from Britain in 1980, is increasingly under pressure from angry Zimbabweans, as well as his war veterans allies, who last month rebuked him as a manipulative dictator, calling on him to step down.
At a meeting of its politburo in Harare, Mugabe's ZANU-PF party expelled nine senior officials, including four war veteran leaders linked to the July 21 statement that denounced Mugabe, the party's administration secretary said, as a purge against Mugabe's former allies intensified.
Zimbabwe has witnessed several anti-government protests in recent months, including the biggest stay-at-home demonstration  by activist pastor Evan Mawarire's #ThisFlag movement in July.
Hundreds of people marched on the streets of Harare on Wednesday against government plans to introduce local bank notes, as authorities grapple with a serious dollar crunch.
Police kept watch and the marchers presented a petition at ministry of finance offices in central Harare. But baton-wielding police charged at the protesters as they approached the Parliament building, beating them until they dispersed.
The police beat three reporters, including a BBC journalist,  and broke his camera. Some protesters threw rocks at the police, who also had water cannons, but did not use them.
"We don't want bond notes because they will wipe out the few U.S. dollars left. They have come to destroy the country. We do not want them," said protester Wesley Chawada, who was waving the old Zimbabwean dollar currency, which was dumped in 2009.
Former vice president Joice Mujuru on Tuesday challenged the planned issuance of the bond notes at the Constitutional Court.
Demonstrators denounced Mugabe, accusing ZANU-PF of failing to create up to 2.2 million jobs that it had promised during its  campaign for the 2013 presidential vote, which Mugabe won amid opposition charges of rigging.
"Mugabe just quit, I will forgive you", read one placard, while another said "No to police state, you have failed Mr Mugabe."
Mugabe plans to contest the next election in 2018, his last under a new constitution. That has deepened divisions in ZANU-PF, with war veterans opposing his bid and supporting Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa to take over from Mugabe.
Three war veteran leaders were charged with undermining and insulting the office of the president by a  Harare magistrates court, as Mugabe continues a crackdown on his former allies. The three veterans were freed on $300 bail.
DUBAI (Reuters) - A firefighter was killed while battling flames that erupted when an Emirates airline plane flying from India crash-landed in Dubai, the carrier's chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum said on Wednesday.
Sheikh Ahmed said authorities were still investigating the incident, in which 14 other people were admitted to hospitals with mainly minor or moderate injuries. He said the crash-landing was not caused by any security breach.
He said the plane, which had entered service in 2003, had undergone maintenance in 2015 and that the United Arab Emirates pilot had over 7,000 hours of flying experience.
Emirates always follows international standards and is strict in implementing safety and maintenance rules, Sheikh Ahmed told a news conference in Dubai, which was carried by Dubai television.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A deal between the European Union and Turkey to stem a flow of migrants has largely held, though Athens is watching with concern events unfolding in Turkey, where an attempted coup was put down last month, Greece's migration minister told the German newspaper Bild.
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said over the weekend that Ankara would back out of the agreement with the EU if the bloc did not deliver the promised visa-free travel for Turks in return.
The 28-nation EU depends on Ankara to enforce the deal, which has sharply cut the number of refugees and migrants leaving Turkey for Greece. Grappling with a major financial crisis, Greece struggled to cope with the influx.
"Up to now the agreement is well-kept," Greek migration minister Yiannis Mouzalas said in a transcript of remarks.
"...Of course we are worried, but up to now, the number of people arriving on our islands is not an indication of non- compliance towards whatever has been agreed."
Greece's migration ministry issued what it said were written responses to Bild questions after the German publication quoted Mouzalas as saying the EU needed a 'Plan B' to counter Turkish threats to back out of the accord.
"We are very concerned," Bild quoted Mouzalas saying. "We need, in any case, a Plan B."
The Greek ministry appeared to distance itself from that remark, with no reference to that particular quote in the transcript it released on Wednesday evening.
German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said on Monday Europe would not be blackmailed by Turkey in talks on visa liberalisation, which have been hampered by a dispute over Turkish anti-terrorism legislation and a crackdown after the abortive coup on July 15.
Mouzalas also called for a fairer distribution of refugees in Europe, many of whom arrive from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan and head for Germany and Sweden. Some countries, including Hungary and Slovakia, have objected to a proposed EU quota system for resettling migrants across the bloc.
"The refugees must be distributed right away to all EU countries - and not just to individual (states)," he said.
More than 257,000 migrants and refugees entered Europe by sea from the start of this year to July 27, and at least 3,000 have died, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said on Tuesday.
These figures represent a sharp increase from the same period in 2015, the IMO said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - European defence manufacturer MBDA will submit its proposal for a $4.5 billion German missile defence system by late September, two months later than planned, but still hopes Germany can approve the project early next year, it said on Wednesday.
Germany chose the Medium Extended Air Defense System (MEADS), made by MBDA and Lockheed Martin Corp, last year over Raytheon Co's Patriot system, but said the firms would have to meet tough performance milestones to retain the contract, one of Germany's biggest arms projects.
If the project is not approved by the German parliament in early 2017, it could well slip into 2018 or later due to German elections next year, which would delay fielding the next-generation missile defence system until 2023 or later, a German government source said this week.
MBDA, jointly owned by Airbus Group, Britain's BAE Systems Plc and Italy's Leonardo Finmeccanica SpA, said the companies involved in the project needed more time to negotiate and finalise details of their proposal.
"We expect to submit the proposal by the end of September, and would assume that the German parliament can review the plans early next year," said MBDA spokesman Roland Kuntze.
German officials are determined to avoid the costly delays and technical challenges that have plagued another big European programme, the Airbus A400M military transport plane.
Kuntze said MBDA was separately assessing whether it could find a European source for an exciter, a component on the MEADS fire control radar, instead of the one developed independently by Lockheed and tested on the MEADS system. The study should be completed in coming weeks, he said.
Airbus and Leonardo also build such equipment, but would have to carry out costly and potentially time-consuming work to develop and test the required component, according to two sources familiar with the programme.
Germany, however, has already expressed interest in buying the Lockheed part, the sources said.
U.S. officials have signed off on the possible sale of Lockheed's component, a deal that would be worth tens of millions of dollars to the U.S. company, according to one of the sources.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia has agreed to assist thousands of laid-off Indian workers stranded in the kingdom without money or food, an Indian minister said on Wednesday.
A sharp drop in oil prices has forced cuts to state spending in Saudi Arabia, the world's top crude exporter. Construction firms have been squeezed financially and have laid off tens of thousands of south Asian and other foreign workers.
More than 6,200 of the stranded Indian workers were employed by construction firm Saudi Oger, a conglomerate owned by the family of former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, which has been unable to pay workers' salaries for months, according to Indian officials.
India's junior foreign minister Vijay Kumar Singh, visiting Riyadh on Wednesday to meet Saudi Labour Minister Mufrej al-Haqbani, said the Saudi government had provided assurances that it would resolve the crisis and ensure workers' financial claims were pursued, even if the workers returned home.
"Things are not as bad as they have been shown and projected," the minister said in joint remarks with Haqbani after their meeting.
"Things are very fine. We are in constant touch with all the officials and the various departments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia."
Haqbani said Saudi Arabia's King Salman had directed officials to take all measures to resolve the problem at the government's expense, and Riyadh would hire lawyers to pursue the workers' claims and make sure their rights were respected.
"Yesterday, we contracted all the providers to provide health, catering, maintenance and everything, and we contracted the airlines to send back anybody who wants to go there upon the approval of the Embassy of India,” Haqbani said, according to a text of the remarks provided by his ministry.
A Lebanese newspaper reported on Wednesday that the Saudi  government was in talks with Hariri on a proposal to take over Saudi Oger. Under the proposed deal, the buyer would assume all debts and financial obligations of Saudi Oger.
Saudi Oger officials and Saad al-Hariri could not be reached for comment. In the past, the company has declined to speak publicly about its finances. Saudi officials were also not available to speak about the reported takeover proposal.
A total of about 7,700 Indian workers were stranded, according to Indian officials. Of these, 4,072 were staying in worker camps in Riyadh while 2,153 were in Jeddah.
Indian Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj said on Saturday the workers faced a "food crisis" because employers had not paid their wages. The Jeddah consulate was distributing emergency rations to the workers pending efforts to repatriate them.
Saudi Arabia says it investigates any complaints of companies not paying wages and if necessary obliges these firms to do so or risk fines and other penalties.
Other foreign governments, including France, the Philippines and Bangladesh, have been pressing Saudi authorities and company executives to ensure that construction firms pay their workers.
Before the economic slowdown, about 10 million foreigners, largely from south Asia, southeast Asia and other parts of the Middle East, worked in Saudi Arabia, many in low-paid jobs in sectors Saudis spurn such as construction, domestic service and retailing.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Most Germans do not blame the government's expansive refugee policy for two Islamist attacks last month, an opinion poll showed on Wednesday.
But police report that violence against refugee centres remains widespread, suggesting the arrival of large numbers of migrants - 1.1 million of whom reached Germany last year - has done nothing to ease social tensions.
The poll by Forsa, to be published in Thursday's Stern magazine, showed 69 percent of respondents saw no direct link between the arrival of a record number of mainly Muslim asylum seekers and the two attacks claimed by the Islamic State group.
A Syrian whose application had been rejected and was facing deportation to Bulgaria was killed in a failed suicide attack on July 24 in the Bavarian town of Ansbach. There were no other fatalities.
Six days earlier, police shot dead a 17-year-old asylum seeker believed from either Afghanistan or Pakistan in Wuerzburg, also in Bavaria, after he attacked five people with an axe.
That violence, as well as two other fatal assaults not claimed by militant groups, put the spotlight back on the migration policy of Chancellor Angela Merkel, who gained in popularity after Britain voted in June to leave the European Union and has since defended her refugee policy.
The Forsa poll, which questioned 1,007 people on July 28 and July 29, showed 28 percent of respondents believed that policy, which mainly benefited migrants fleeing wars in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, was to blame for the attacks.
Among supporters of the anti-immigrant party Alternative for Germany (AfD) that number rose to 78 percent. Support for the AfD rose by 2 percentage points to 12 percent after the attacks, a separate poll last month showed.
In June, German officials reported a 42-percent rise in far-right violence in 2015, including many attacks targeted against refugees.
On Wednesday, the BKA federal police agency said it had logged 665 attacks so far this year against migrant accommodation, roughly on a par with the 1,031 incidents reported in 2015.
A BKA spokeswoman said it was unclear if the number of arson and other attacks had spiked after the two Islamist attacks, but security and intelligence sources reported a noticeable uptick in verbal aggression against asylum-seekers.
On July 23 a deranged German-Iranian teenager shot dead nine people in Munich before killing himself, and a day later a machete-wielding Syrian refugee killed a woman in a town near Stuttgart. Neither of those attacks was claimed by Islamists.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Hussein Salem, a businessman and ally of Egypt's deposed president Hosni Mubarak, and his family have given up 75 percent of their wealth in a deal that will allow them to return to Egypt without facing prosecution, his lawyer said.
Salem was arrested in 2011 under an international warrant in Spain, where he fled in the aftermath of the 18-day popular uprising that ended Mubarak's 30-year rule.
An Egyptian court sentenced him in absentia to seven years in jail and fines totalling more than $4 billion in 2011 after convicting him of money laundering and profiteering. He later faced further graft-related convictions but was cleared in 2014 of charges related to gas exports to Israel along with Mubarak and a former oil minister.
"I am very happy with the outcome of the case and feel that we can begin to move forward," says Mahmoud Kabish, a former dean of the Faculty of Law at Cairo University and Salem's lawyer.
Salem, who also holds Spanish citizenship, was a major shareholder in East Mediterranean Gas (EMG). Egyptian opposition groups had long complained that EMG was selling gas at preferential prices to Israel and other countries, depriving Egypt of potential revenues.
Egypt's Illicit Gains Authority recovered 5.3 billion Egyptian pounds ($596.85 million) in the reconciliation deal with the Salem family, according to state television.
Adel al-Saeed, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office, said the tycoon transferred 75 percent of his wealth to state ownership, including land, agriculture, and hotels.
Saeed said the deal guaranteed that Salem and his family, who also had extensive investments in Red Sea resorts, could return to Egypt without facing prosecution.
The deal is part of a wider reconciliation effort with wealthy businessmen who fled Egypt to avoid corruption charges after the uprising.
($1 = 8.8799 Egyptian pounds)
MUZAFFARABAD, Pakistan (Reuters) - Hundreds of Pakistani supporters of a militant-linked charity tried to cross into the Indian part of the divided Kashmir region on Wednesday to deliver aid after weeks of violent protests there.
But the activists from the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the charitable arm of the anti-India Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group, did not have permission from either the Pakistani or Indian authorities to cross the contested border and were stopped in a village on the Pakistani side where they staged a protest.
"We will continue the sit-in until these essential food supplies are sent across the divide into the curfew ridden Kashmir valley," Hafiz Abdul Rauf, a senior official of the charity, told Reuters.
The United States designated the charity a "foreign terrorist organisation" in 2010. The group denies any militant activity.
The Muslim-majority Himalayan region of Kashmir has been divided since shortly after India and Pakistan gained independence from Britain in 1947.
The nuclear-armed neighbours have fought three wars over it and the border between them in the region is an old ceasefire line known as the Line of Control (LoC).
The United Nations still monitors the well-fortified positions on both sides of the tense divide.
Forty-six people have been killed and more 5,000 wounded, including Indian security forces, since protests erupted there after the killing of a militant commander on July 8.
Most of the violence has been in the Kashmir Valley, the most populous part of Indian Kashmir, which includes the main city of Srinagar.
The JuD activists, chanting "annihilation of India", tried to approach the LoC but were kept well back by steel barricades erected by Pakistani security forces in the village of Chakothi.
The protest came hours before Indian Interior Minister Rajnath Singh arrived in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, for regional talks, according to footage broadcast on the Pakistani television news channel Geo.
A Kashmiri militant commander led a protest in Islamabad against Singh's visit earlier on Wednesday. About 300 people attended.
The militant leader, Syed Salahuddin, said Singh was "a killer of Kashmiris" and Pakistan should cut diplomatic ties with India over the violence in Indian Kashmir.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tomomi Inada will have precious little time to settle into her new job as Japan's defence minister, as events on her first day in the office underlined.
Hours before the hawkish lawyer was appointed to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's cabinet in a limited reshuffle, a North Korean missile landed in or near Japanese-controlled waters for the first time.
The show of force, part of Pyongyang's increasingly provocative arms testing, is a reminder of how strained relations between countries in northeast Asia have become, from North Korea's nuclear programme to China's assertiveness in the disputed waters of the South and East China Seas.
Into the mix steps Inada, a conservative ally of Abe whose support for his goal of revising Japan's post-war, pacifist constitution risks exacerbating tensions.
The 57-year-old, previously policy chief for Abe's Liberal Democratic Party, will be watched closely in Beijing and Seoul, where Japan's legacy of military aggression before and during World War Two remains an open wound.
Inada has been a regular visitor to Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine for the war dead, an act that infuriates both countries because they see the shrine as a symbol of Japan's past militarism for which they believe it has never fully atoned.
When asked by reporters on Wednesday whether she would visit the shrine again ahead of the Aug. 15 anniversary of Japan's surrender in 1945, Inada declined to comment.
"It's a matter of conscience and I don't think I should comment on whether I will go or not," she said.
Political analysts expect Inada to put pragmatism first in her new role.
"She is the kind of person who regularly listens to a wide range of people. I believe she will employ a practical policy," said Bonji Ohara, a research fellow at the Tokyo Foundation think-tank.
    "Personnel change presents a good opportunity (to improve ties). It gives China an opportunity to say what has happened has happened under (outgoing defence) minister (Gen) Nakatani, not minister Inada, and to shift its stance."
Japan, and Inada, may in turn reach out to China and others as they seek to neutralise the threat to security posed by North Korea.
Japan has already said it is upgrading its missile defences in time for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games to counter more advanced North Korean weapons, part of increased military spending in the region that reflects worsening ties.
China is North Korea's main ally, although Beijing disapproves of Pyongyang's nuclear programme.
Abe is expected to travel to China in September for a Group of 20 summit, where he wants to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
"We will steadily strengthen ties with neighbouring countries such as China and South Korea, and proceed with talks with Russia for a peace treaty," Abe told a news conference announcing his new cabinet.
Japan and Russia never signed a peace treaty after World War Two because of a territorial dispute, while Tokyo and Beijing both claim jurisdiction over islands in the East China Sea.
In fact, Inada was one of three Japanese lawmakers who were reportedly denied entry into South Korea in 2011 because they planned to visit islands which both countries say are theirs.
Also in her in-tray is the row over who owns what in the South China Sea, where Japan has no direct claim but through which trillions of dollars in trade pass annually, much of it to and from Japanese ports.
Rather than confront China directly by sailing warships past its man-made island bases in the sea, Japan is providing equipment and training to the Southeast Asian nations, including the Philippines and Vietnam, which are most opposed to China's territorial ambitions.
Beijing's most powerful adversary in Asia is the United States, with its Seventh Fleet operating from bases in Japan and South Korea.
Japan's annual defence review, published on Tuesday, warned of "unintended consequences" if China disregarded international rules, after an arbitration court in The Hague invalidated Beijing's sweeping claims to most of the sea.
China rejected the ruling and refused to participate in the case.
LAHORE, Pakistan (Reuters) - A Pakistani opposition lawmaker on Wednesday proposed banning 24-hour cartoon TV channels, specifically the popular Japanese series "Doraemon", drawing ridicule on social media in a country fighting corruption, poverty and Islamist militants.
Malik Taimur ,from cricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan's political party, said such channels could have a negative influence on children.
Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) holds a majority in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, which is on the frontline of the fight against the Taliban and other militants that kill hundreds each year.
The resolution submitted in Punjab province's assembly requested "the federal government that it make it binding upon PEMRA (state regulator) that it close down cartoon channels, specifically Doraemon, or only run them for limited time periods".
"Children's education and physical health is being affected by these 24-hour cartoon channels," the resolution said.
Doraemon is a small, blue robot cat from the future sent back in time to help a hapless schoolboy and his family.
Many episodes of the animated version feature lessons about moral values, and the series has been translated into over 30 languages. Japan even selected Doraemon as a cartoon cultural ambassador in 2008.
After Khan's party member filed the petition, #PTIvsDoraemon began trending on Twitter in Pakistan, with many people wondering why the party didn't focus on more pressing issues such as child abuse, corruption and poverty.
"In a country where child abductions and abuse is rampant, PTI decides to raise its voice for the real threat our children face. Doraemon," said Twitter user Assad Zulfiqar Khan.
Another Twitter user Adeel Hussain said: "When you finally wipe clean poverty, hunger and corruption. So you have nothing better to do. #PTIvsDoraemon."
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's food shortages, inflation and crumbling medical sector have become such a source of anguish that a growing number of young women are reluctantly opting for sterilisations rather than face the hardship of pregnancy and child-rearing.
Traditional contraceptives like condoms or birth control pills have virtually vanished from store shelves, pushing women towards the hard-to-reverse surgery.
"Having a child now means making him suffer," said Milagros Martinez, waiting on a park bench on a recent morning ahead of her sterilization at a nearby Caracas municipal health centre.
The 28-year-old butcher from the poor outskirts of Caracas decided on the operation after having an unplanned second child because she could not find birth control pills.
Her daily life revolves around finding food: she gets up in the middle of the night to stand in long lines outside supermarkets, sometimes with no choice but to bring along her baby son, who has been sunburnt during hours-long waits.
"I'm a little scared about being sterilized but I prefer that to having more children," said Martinez, who with dozens of other women took a bus from the slums at 4 a.m. to attend a special "sterilization day" in this wealthy area of Caracas.
While no recent national statistics on sterilisations are available, doctors and health workers say demand for the procedure is growing.
For a Wider Image photo essay, see reut.rs/2atW2ZL
The local health program for women in Miranda state, which includes parts of Caracas, offers 40 spots during these "sterilization days" but as recently as last year did not usually fill them.
Now all the slots are scooped up and some 500 women are on the waiting list, according to program director Deliana Torres.
"Before, the conditions for this program were that the women be low-income and have at least four kids. Now we have women with one or two kids who want to be tied up," she said.
Health workers at a national family planning organisation and at three government hospitals in the states of Falcon, Tachira and Merida echoed her view that demand for sterilisations had grown in recent months.
The trend highlights how the oil-rich nation's brutal recession is forcing people to make difficult choices.
Venezuela is a largely Roman Catholic country where Church doctrine rejects all forms of contraception and abortion is banned unless a woman's life is at risk. The Archbishop of Merida, Baltazar Porras, told Reuters an increase in sterilisations would be a "barbarity."
But Venezuela's crisis has triggered almost daily riots for food and slammed a shrinking middle class as well as the poor who were once a bastion of support for late leftist leader Hugo Chavez's self-styled "beautiful revolution."
Pregnant women are particularly affected as they struggle to find adequate food and supplements, give birth in crowded and under-equipped hospitals, and have to spend hours in lines for scarce diapers, baby food and medicines.
The government ministries for health, women and information did not respond to requests for comment.
Sterilizations are usually straightforward procedures that involve closing or blocking a woman's fallopian tubes, known as tubal ligation.
"I heard about these free sterilization days on the radio. Immediately I showered, dressed, and went out (to find out about them)," said Rosmary Teran, 32, who had her second child two months ago and also came to the health centre from a poor neighbourhood before dawn.
Some health workers fear the economic meltdown is putting pressure on women to make a choice they may come to regret if the crisis eases.
"Sometimes we hear: 'My husband told me to get sterilized because another child now wouldn't be practical'," said social worker Ania Rodriguez at family planning group PLAFAM in central Caracas.
Rodriguez says she meets with up to five women a day seeking sterilisations, up from one or two per week about a year ago. When women seem unsure or pressured into sterilisations, Rodriguez tries to steer them toward contraceptives like intra-uterine devices, which are somewhat more available and affordable than birth control pills or condoms.
When they have them, pharmacies sell a pack of three condoms for around 600 bolivars, only 60 U.S. cents at the black market rate but a big expense for those who earn the minimum wage of some 33,000 bolivars per month. On the Caracas re-sale market, those same condoms fetch around 2,000 bolivars.
Venezuela's elite can afford those prices but the ailing middle class and poor are increasingly stuck.
"I couldn't find the (contraceptive) injections, the pill, nothing. It's very expensive on the black market, and now you can't even find stuff there anymore," said Yecsenis Ginez, 31, who has one son and decided to get sterilized.
"I thought I would have up to five kids, I had loads of names in mind. But it would be crazy to fall pregnant now."
Still, some women have had to wait for months to be sterilized because there are limited spots at state-led hospitals and private clinics can charge about 12 times the monthly minimum wage. And some health centres are unable to provide sterilisations at all due to a lack of equipment or specialists.
Amid what now feels like a distant oil boom, Chavez built thousands of Cuban-staffed health centres in poor neighbourhoods and also launched popular maternity-health programs during his 1999-2013 rule.
But with Venezuela's state-led economic model decaying and oil prices depressed, hospitals have deteriorated sharply under his successor Nicolas Maduro.
Medicine shortages hover around 85 percent, according to a leading pharmaceutical association. Equipment ranging from surgical gloves to incubators is scarce, and many underpaid doctors have left the public sector or emigrated.
The government still says it has one of the world's best health systems and accuses detractors of waging a smear campaign. It has stopped releasing timely health data, though.
The World Health Organization says Venezuela's neo-natal mortality rate was 8.9 per 1,000 live births last year, above the Americas region's average of 7.7. It says Venezuela's maternal mortality rate was 95 per 100,000 live births in 2015, one of the worst rates in Latin America and up from 90 in 2000.
The nation of 30 million people has one of Latin America's highest rates of teenage pregnancies and large numbers of single-parent households, U.N. data shows.
As they waited to be called into the operating room for their sterilisations, women in blue scrubs and hairnets wistfully recalled happier times in once-booming Venezuela.
"Before, when you got pregnant, everyone was happy," said mother-of-two Yessy Ascanio, 38, as she sat on a bed in a side room. "Now when a woman says 'I'm pregnant', everyone scolds you. It makes me sad for young women."
As some of her peers nervously looked out at patients being wheeled out after their sterilization, Ascanio advised: "If you get scared, just remember those food lines."
ROME (Reuters) - Italy is investigating whether Islamic State is involved in organising the passage of tens of thousands of migrants across the Mediterranean, its justice minister said on Wednesday.
The Turkey to Greece migration route has been largely shut down since a repatriation deal was struck between the European Union and Ankara in March, but hundreds of people are arriving in Italy every day, mostly from Libya.
Criminal gangs have taken advantage of chaos in Libya to charge mainly sub-Saharan Africans, looking for a better life in Europe, hundreds of dollars to make the voyage.
"From the information available, there is an investigation underway focussed on whether representatives of ISIS (Islamic State) have crucial roles in controlling and managing migrant flows to Italy," Justice Minister Andrea Orlando told a parliamentary committee.
He told the hearing on immigration, Europe's border-free Schengen accord and the activity of European police agency Europol that details of the investigation were secret.
"The risks we have to take on are high," he said, adding there was also a suspicion the militants were trying to influence where in Italy migrants were eventually placed.
The militant group has made money by selling oil from fields it seized in the Middle East and North Africa and from plundering weapons and ammunition.
Militant groups have smuggled members into Europe among the migrants, German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said.
The migrants are taking often unseaworthy boats from Libya to Italy. A total of 4,027 migrants or refugees have died worldwide so far this year, three-quarters of them in the Mediterranean, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said on Tuesday, a 35 percent increase on the global toll during the first seven months of 2015.
More than 257,000 migrants and refugees have entered Europe by sea this year, it said.
LIMA (Reuters) - Drug smuggling arrests and seizures are up in Peru ahead of the Olympic Games in neighbouring Brazil, with foreigners carrying packs of cocaine in their stomachs risking death to cash in on a potential spike in demand, police said on Tuesday.
At least 98 so-called drug mules, mostly foreign citizens, have been arrested at the airport in the capital Lima since January, an increase from previous periods, said Luis Pantoja, the chief of Peru's anti-narcotics police department.
Authorities have also confiscated 19.6 tonnes of narcotics, the vast majority of it cocaine and cocaine paste, so far this year, up 25 percent from the same period in 2015, Pantoja said.
"If we keep that up through December, we'll have beaten the historic record in drug seizures," Pantoja said. He said police had also seized record levels of precursor chemicals used to make cocaine.
Pantoja said it was unclear what was driving the trend, but said throngs of visitors headed to the Olympic Games might be bolstering demand in Brazil, the second biggest consumer of cocaine in the world after the United States.
Authorities in Peru reported a spike in drug-trafficking before Brazil hosted the World Cup in 2014. Peru is virtually tied with Colombia as the world's top cocaine producer.
Pantoja said a Nigerian man died late last year when the latex packets of cocaine he had swallowed to smuggle the drug across Peru's border with Brazil broke open in his stomach.
"There's a history of people dying this way," Pantoja said.
A law went into effect in Peru earlier this year allowing the military to shoot down aircraft suspected of carrying drugs - prompting traffickers to turn to boats and backpackers to move their cocaine out of a remote jungle region.
Brazilian authorities have been tightening border controls ahead of the start of the Olympic Games on Friday.
DHAKA/NEW DELHI (Reuters) - When Bangladeshi authorities last month released the names of 261 men who have gone missing from their families, in an attempt to find militants hidden in this country of 160 million people, at the very end of the list was "Jilani alias Abu Zidal".
He was not in Bangladesh. The young man, an engineering school dropout, travelled to Syria last year to fight for Islamic State. In April, IS announced he was blown to bits during battle by a 23-millimeter gun, the sort used to shoot down aircraft.
Asked why Bangladesh's Rapid Action Battalion, a domestic anti-terrorism agency, listed Jilani among the 261 names, its spokesman Mufti Mohammad Khan said neither the man's family nor the police had notified the battalion of the death. "So we included him in the list." A Google search for Jilani, whose real name was Ashequr Rahman, would have brought up an Islamic State notification of his death.
Distributing the alias of a dead jihadi in an all-points bulletin is just one illustration of how Bangladesh authorities have failed to confront the international links of radical Islamist groups in the country. Police and government officials here continue to insist they are facing a home-grown threat -- a "grave error," according to regional experts on militant groups.
Banking officials admit being lost when it comes to interdicting foreign funding for attacks. Law enforcement officers have been slow to complete basic steps of intelligence-gathering, weeks after a July 1 assault in which five young men killed 20 people they'd taken hostage at a cafe in the capital.
The government says the July 1 attack -- and another on July 26 in which police killed nine militants believed to be plotting a similar assault-- were the work of domestic militants and it has dismissed claims of responsibility from the Islamic State.
That fits with a pattern of the nation's rulers reflexively blaming their rivals in Islamist opposition political parties for fomenting unrest.
Dhaka has recently doubled down on its position that IS does not exist in Bangladesh. Authorities on Tuesday named a prime suspect in the café attack, Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury. Analysts say he is the same person IS identified in April as its commander in Bangladesh, who goes by the alias of Sheik Abu Ibrahim al-Hanif.
Asked whether by naming Chowdhury officials had implicitly acknowledged Islamic State is in Bangladesh, Monirul Islam, head of a counter-terrorism cell for the Dhaka police, disagreed. "Our stand is very clear," Islam told Reuters, "that there is no IS inside the country."
Many "lone wolf" and self-styled jihadist groups have pledged support to IS around the world, in addition to a reported 22,000 foreigners who have left their countries of origin to fight on behalf of the group. However, the line between self-declared adherents and actual IS command-and-control is often unclear.
Bangladesh has for years denied that global jihadi networks like al Qaeda and Islamic State operate on its soil. But the recent spate of attacks by scattered and hard-to-detect groups of gunmen claiming loyalty to both shows such distinctions are losing relevance.
That has left authorities struggling to contain an escalating offensive by militants in a nation with a $28 billion-a-year garment industry and which, crucially, sits between south and southeast Asia, regions that contain the largest Muslim populations in the world.
Officials in Dhaka have ordered crackdowns on long-standing Bangladeshi domestic Islamist political and militant groups, arresting more than 11,000 people in June alone in an effort to stop a wave of killings, including by machete hacking, that have targeted liberal bloggers, academics and religious minorities.
The attention to old foes is diverting attention from an emerging international problem, said Animesh Roul, executive director of a New Delhi-based think tank, the Society for the Study of Peace and Conflict.
"They are still focusing too much on the existing militant networks and have failed to realise that the IS or AQIS (Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent) monsters are fishing in the troubled waters and succeeding to a large extent by enticing the youths or grassroots extremists," Roul said.
Roul, who penned a study of the militant threat in Bangladesh published in May by the Combating Terrorism Center at the United States Military Academy, called it "a grave error."
Regional terrorism expert Rohan Gunaratna of the Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore said his research, including interviews in Dhaka with fighters in custody, shows that militants in Bangladesh "received financing, instruction and assistance from the Islamic State".
With an unrelenting focus on domestic Islamic militants, authorities have admitted to being challenged in tracking the movements of money and people from abroad.
Three of the Dhaka cafe attackers went missing for months before the attacks. Asked if authorities had combed through passenger manifests to check whether they had left the country -– a possible clue to who might have helped organised the slaughter -- a police official speaking three weeks after the assault said no one had done so.
"We did not check yet, but that will be done," said Mohammad Masudur Rahman, deputy commissioner of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police.
In interviews with one former senior central banking official and a current senior government official with direct knowledge of banking operations, neither could point to an instance in which Bangladeshi agencies had successfully identified and disrupted external funding for militant groups.
It's a daunting task. Millions of overseas workers sent home about $15 billion in the fiscal year that ended in June 2016, the second-largest source of foreign exchange after garment exports.
Among that diaspora were eight Bangladeshi men, detained between March and April in Singapore, who had formed a group they called the Islamic State in Bangladesh.
Mostly construction workers, they'd failed to reach Syria and were saving cash to return home and launch attacks, according to Singapore's Ministry of Home Affairs. The group's leader, a 31-year-old draftsman at a construction firm, was inspired by Islamic State propaganda he found online.
He had a list of 13 categories of people under a title of "need to kill", including security forces, politicians, media and "disbelievers", such as Hindus and Christians.
Another clutch of men, 26 in all, were arrested in Singapore between last November and December after forming a "study group" that supported the ideology of Al Qaeda and Islamic State, according to Singapore's home affairs ministry.
Members "were encouraged to return to Bangladesh and wage armed jihad against the Bangladeshi government", the ministry said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Nazar Naqvi has faithfully voted Republican for more than three decades.
After Donald Trump's feud with Muslim parents who lost a son in battle for the United States, he has vowed not a single Republican will get his vote.
Naqvi, 69, a retired U.S. government engineer from Newburgh, New York, is a member of a small community of Muslims who are among America's Gold Star families, those whose loved ones were killed while serving in the U.S. military.
His son Mohsin Naqvi, who was born in Pakistan, enlisted in the U.S. Army four days after Sept. 11, 2001, and was killed in 2008 by a roadside bomb in Afghanistan.
Trump lashed out at Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the Pakistani American parents of slain U.S. Army Captain Humayun Khan, after they appeared at last week's Democratic convention in Philadelphia to criticize the Republican presidential hopeful for proposing a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country.
"I'm going to vote for anyone but Republicans because of this one person, this man who has gone out of his mind," Naqvi said this week. "Not any office should get our vote. He has been nominated not by one person - the Republican Party nominated him."
Naqvi said he was pressing his registered Republican friends to do the same.
The Pentagon says that 3,939 active duty service members have identified themselves as Muslim, less than 1 percent of the 1.3 million active duty U.S. military troops, but a Pentagon spokesman said there is no record of how many Muslims have been killed in action.
Reuters reached out to a dozen Muslim Gold Star families who lost a loved one in action after Sept. 11, 2001.
The families are not organized as a group and some did not  want to talk. But those who did agreed that Trump's comments upended their political loyalties, and moved them to take action to register and motivate other voters to keep Trump out of the White House in November.
Nooshin Razani, 43, an Iranian-American pediatrician in Oakland, California, whose 19-year-old brother Omead Razani died while serving as a U.S. Army medic in Iraq in 2004, said Trump's comments sparked her to speak to the press for the first time.
"When I saw there was this person who was willing to use religion in this negative way, I decided I'm coming forward," said Razani.
Trump rebuked Khizr Khan for suggesting that he should read the U.S. Constitution and said his wife Ghazala may have stood silently by her husband because she might not have been "allowed" to speak.
Although Trump did call their son a hero and said his aim was to end radical Islamic terror, the ensuing uproar has caused many Republicans to distance themselves from him and to support the Khan family.
Razani joined more than 20 Gold Star families in signing an open letter calling for Trump to apologize to the Khans and said she is going to volunteer to register voters, mainly because of Trump's comments about Ghazala Khan, which she said insulted all Muslim women.
"I want to be an active part of making sure people's voices are heard. Even people Trump thinks don't speak up," Razani said.
Trump's ongoing dispute with the Khans has become a call to political action for Kevin Ahearn of Phoenix. His brother, Army Major James Ahearn, converted to Islam to marry a woman with whom he fell in love in Iraq, brought to the United States and with whom he had a daughter before he was killed by a bomb in Iraq in 2007.
Kevin Ahearn, 48, said on Tuesday that he and his husband planned to go to Democratic Headquarters in Phoenix to volunteer for the first time.
"It makes me all the more determined that he does not make it to the White House," said Ahearn, whose Muslim niece now is 10.
The soldier's mother said she was shocked by Trump's rhetoric and wishes she could talk to her late son about it.
"He was always a staunch Republican because they backed the military. I can’t imagine how he would feel now," said Constance Ahearn, 75, who lives in the San Francisco area.
BRASILIA (Reuters) - A Senate report found on Tuesday that Brazil's suspended President Dilma Rousseff violated the constitution by manipulating government accounts, moving her drawn-out impeachment trial closer to deciding her fate.
The report is expected to be approved by the impeachment committee on Friday and by the full Senate next Tuesday, leading to the final trial phase in which the 81 Senators must reach a verdict at the end of August or first days of September.
The impeachment of the unpopular leftist leader has paralysed Brazilian politics for seven months and held interim President Michel Temer in a legal limbo that has hindered his efforts to pull Brazil from fiscal crisis and severe recession.
Rousseff is accused of altering official budget figures and using funds from state-run banks to cover up the real state of Brazil's faltering economy as she ran for re-election in 2014.
Her impeachment would mark the end of 13 years of rule by the left-of-center Workers Party and leave Latin America's largest economy in the hands of the Temer, Rousseff's conservative vice president.
Brazil's stock market and currency have strengthened since Rousseff was suspended by the Senate on May 12 as investors bet on her removal and replacement by Temer, who has outlined policies favouring private business.
But Temer has avoided unpopular austerity measures needed to balance Brazil's overdrawn accounts until he is definitely confirmed in the job to serve out Rousseff's mandate to 2018.
While 54 votes are needed to convict Rousseff, or two-thirds of the Senate, Brasilia-based political consultancy ARKO Advice says between 56 and 60 Senators today favour removing her, a narrow margin that is unlikely to be reversed because Temer is seen delivering political and economic stability.
"The majority sentiment in the Senate is that market expectations regarding the economy are improving significantly and that the return of the suspended president would put the country in a difficult situation again," ARKO said in its monthly analysis for clients.
Efforts to defend Rousseff by her Workers Party and its founder, former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who faces corruption charges, have not been enough to save her, Arko said.
The Senate impeachment committee listened to the author of the report, Senator Antonio Anastasia, read out from its 440 pages detailing the alleged illegalities of the accounting methods that Rousseff used to augment her government's spending power in the run-up to the 2014 election.
Anastasia, a member of the PSDB, the main opposition party to Rousseff's administration, said there was enough evidence for the impeachment trial to proceed.
"What we found was an expansive spending policy that was not fiscally sustainable and lacked transparency with operations that bypassed Congress and did not follow good practices of budget management," Anastasia said in his report.
Rousseff has denied she broke budget laws and maintains she is the victim of a right-wing conspiracy to overthrow her government that advanced the interests of Brazil's poor. In her written defence last month Rousseff said Brazilians knew an honest woman was being put on trial and she called the impeachment a "farce" and her alleged crimes no more than "routine acts of budgetary management."
The trial phase in the Senate will be presided over by Brazil's Chief Justice Ricardo Lewandowski.
According to the Supreme Court, if the Senate approves Anastasia's report next Tuesday - only a simple majority is needed - the final trial session would begin on Aug. 26 and last about a week, with a final vote on Sept 2.
Temer aides hope the trial will end sooner so he can attend the summit of G20 nations in China at the beginning of September without any doubts about his legitimacy. Temer has said he will not go to the meeting otherwise.
(Reuters) - Crowds ran in panic after mistaking a flashmob-style performance for a militant attack in a Spanish coastal resort, police and media said.
Scores of people responded to social media invitations to descend on Platja d'Aro on Tuesday evening and run around pretending to be paparazzi, papers reported.
Participants held tripods and selfie sticks and pretended to be chasing a celebrity. But other people in the streets mistook the objects for guns and fled, blocking traffic and sending restaurant tables flying, media reported.
Eleven people were treated for minor injuries, anxiety attacks and heart palpitations, with at least two hospitalised police said.
Five German women, aged between 20 and 25, were arrested, accused of ivvolvement in the stunt, the force added. They were charged with public order offences and will appear in court later on Wednesday.
Tensions are high after a series of attacks claimed by the Islamic State in France and Germany in recent weeks.
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nepal's parliament on Wednesday elected Prachanda, who led a decade-long insurgency that topped a feudal monarchy, as the Himalayan nation's new prime minister, a week after K.P. Oli stepped down to avoid a no-confidence motion.
Nepal has long been mired in political instability and Prachanda, 61, becomes its 24th prime minister since protests led to the establishment of a multi-party democracy in 1990. He has served once before, after winning power in 2008.
Prachanda, whose real name in Pushpa Kamal Dahal, won 363 votes of the 573 votes cast in the 595-member parliament. Lawmkers draped Buddhist prayer scarves around his neck after he was elected unopposed.
"I will work for national unity, to promote the interest of the country and its people," the bespectacled leader had told lawmakers earlier.
The return of Prachanda, who still uses his nom de guerre, which means "fierce", but has lost his former Robin Hood image, is unlikely to end the revolving-door politics that has sapped business confidence in one of the world's poorest countries.
"I don't think he will be stable," said Guna Raj Luitel, editor of the daily Nagarik.
"There is no agreement between parties on a basic agenda for the country. They have only agreed for convenience, and there is already a deal to change the prime minister after nine months."
Prachanda's confirmation became possible with the support of parliament's biggest party, the centrist Nepali Congress, and several smaller parties. The Maoists are the third biggest group in the legislature.
Under a widely reported power-sharing deal, Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba is expected to take over from Prachanda before Nepal holds a general election at the beginning of 2018. Party officials have declined to comment.
The two leaders make for a disparate combination.
Deuba headed the cabinet that offered a bounty of 5 million rupees ($50,000) for Prachanda in 2001, at the peak of the insurgency. Two years later, Maoist guerrillas shot up Deuba's convoy in west Nepal, but he escaped unhurt.
Frequent changes of government are blamed on politicians who are seen as selfish and power hungry, and who show little concern for the plight of Nepal's 28 million people. Nearly a quarter live on less than $2 a day.
Politics in Nepal, which has great potential to generate hydroelectric power, is closely watched by giant neighbours China and India as they vie for influence over the country that is home to Mount Everest and the birthplace of Lord Buddha.
In 2008, Prachanda visited China before India, breaking a tradition of new Nepali leaders making New Delhi their first foreign port of call.
On a March visit, Oli cosied up to China with a deal to use its ports for trading goods with third countries, ruffling feathers in India, which controls landlocked Nepal's main overland trade route.
India is blamed in Nepal for imposing a blockade on fuel and essential goods last year after its Madhesi minority protested against the first post-monarchy constitution. India denies the accusation.
Prachanda said his government would continue the pacts Oli signed with China and India.
The Madhesis, mostly southern plains dwellers with ties to India, say the charter weakens their position in the central government by dividing their homeland.
The new leader also faces a huge reconstruction effort after earthquakes that killed 9,000 people last year, besides overseeing settlement of war crimes cases against the Maoists and the security forces.
PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Cambodia is urging businesses to accept payment in yuan as it seeks to attract more Chinese tourists, officials said on Wednesday, the latest sign of tightening ties between Phnom Penh and Beijing.
Cambodia is China's closest ally in Southeast Asia and last week handed Beijing a diplomatic victory in a dispute over the South China Sea at a meeting of the Association of South East Asian Nations.
China is already the second-largest source of tourists to Cambodia after Vietnam, with nearly 1 million arrivals a year.
Casinos, some of them Chinese operated and catering to predominately Chinese visitors, punctuate the skyline of Phnom Penh.
Accepting the yuan is part of a Ministry of Tourism plan to more than double the number of Chinese tourists by 2020.
"We want to target 2 million tourists per year from 2020, so we aim to implement it now," Tith Chantha, a secretary of state at the ministry, told Reuters.
"We want to encourage the use of yuan."
Cambodia's economy is already dollarised. The yuan could circulate in a similar way to dollars, Chantha said.
Cambodia is heavily dependent on Chinese aid and investment and Prime Minister Hun Sen said on Tuesday Chinese tourists would help drive growth.
Still, the introduction of the yuan, also known as the renminbi (RMB), would seem to go against a government move away from dollarisation toward use of the riel currency because of the constraints to monetary policy due to the dollar's use.
"More businesses may decide to accept payments in RMB if that makes them more profitable, but the concerns about exchange rate fluctuation and counterfeiting are likely to limit this," said Joseph Lovell of the American Chamber of Commerce in Cambodia.
Lovell said if Chinese tourists knew they could readily use RMB in Cambodia, it might encourage more visits.
Ho Vandy, secretary-general of the Cambodian National Tourism Alliance, said the plan could help spur growth in tourism, but details needed to be worked out.
"In remote areas, people wouldn't know how to identify real or fake notes and what the exchange rate is," Ho Vandy said.
Tith Chantha brushed off those concerns, saying circulation of the notes would mostly be with big hotels and travel companies.
"It won't be difficult, it will be used like the dollar," he said
Officials at the National Bank of Cambodia could not be reached for comment.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - Pope Francis said on Wednesday he hoped the Olympics games in Rio de Janeiro will spur Brazilians to work for a country that is more just and safe.
Speaking to pilgrims and tourists at his weekly general audience, Francis urged Brazilians to "fight the good fight" for a prize he said was much more precious than a medal.
He said this was "a civilisation in which solidarity reigns and is based on the recognition that we are all members of the same human family, regardless of differences of culture, colour of skin or religion."
"For Brazilians ... I hope this will be an opportunity to overcome difficult moments and commit themselves to working as a team to build a country that is more just and more safe," he said.
Brazil, Latin America's largest country, is plagued by corruption, poverty, a huge gap between the rich and poor, and crime, much of it from drugs gangs in large cities.
He said he hoped that the Olympics would inspire all Brazilians to help improve "a world that thirsts for peace, tolerance and reconciliation."
ANKARA (Reuters) - New appointments within Turkey's gendarmerie forces are likely to be carried out in the next 48 hours, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday, after the force was brought under the full control of the government last week.
Turkey has made sweeping changes to the structure of its military since last weekend, tightening government control, following an abortive putsch last month which killed 237 people and wounded nearly 2,200.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Thousands of Yazidis are being held captive by Islamic State in Syria where many are used for sexual slavery or forced to fight for the group, the United Nations said on Wednesday, on the second anniversary of what investigators termed a genocide.
A U.N.-appointed commission of independent war crimes investigators said in June that Islamic State was committing genocide against the Yazidis, a religious community of 400,000 people in northern Iraq, beginning with an attack on their city of Sinjar on Aug. 3, 2014.
Yazidis' beliefs combine elements of several ancient Middle Eastern religions and they are considered infidels by the hardline Sunni Islamist militants.
The U.N. said most of the captives have been taken to neighbouring Syria "where Yazidi women and girls continue to be sexually enslaved and Yazidi boys indoctrinated, trained and used in hostilities."
Around 3,200 Yazidi women and girls are being held captive, and thousands of men and boys are missing, the U.N. said.
The designation of genocide, rare under international law, would mark the first recognised genocide carried out by non-state actors, rather than a state or paramilitaries acting on its behalf.
Historical victims of genocide include Armenians in 1915, Jews during the Nazi Holocaust, Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994 and Bosnian Muslims in Srebrenica in 1995.
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nepal's parliament elected former Maoist rebel chief Prachanda, who led a decade-long insurgency that toppled a Hindu monarchy, as prime minister on Wednesday after predecessor K.P. Oli resigned rather than face defeat in a vote of no confidence.
Pushpa Kamal Dahal, 61, who still uses a nom de guerre that means "Fierce", won 363 votes out of the 573 cast in the 595-member parliament, Speaker Onsari Gharti said.
He becomes the 24th prime minister in 26 years since the Himalayan nation adopted multi-party democracy in 1990 and the eighth since the 239-year-old monarchy was abolished eight years ago.
DUBAI (Reuters) - All departure flights from Dubai international airport have been delayed until further notice, Dubai authorities said, after an Emirates Airline plane coming from India crash-landed and burst into flames.
A spokesperson for operator Dubai Airports said all passengers and crew had been safely evacuated and the emergency services were managing the situation. Emirates Airline said there had been 275 passengers and crew aboard the plane.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Civilian casualties from shelling, mines and booby traps in eastern Ukraine are at their highest in a year as government forces and pro-Moscow separatists constantly violate a ceasefire, the U.N. rights boss said on Wednesday.
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said at least 69 civilians had been killed or wounded in June, double the figure for the previous month, with the figure at 73 in July.
Casualties in eastern Ukraine casualties were the highest since August 2015, Zeid said in a statement.
"Civilians are once again having to flee to improvised bomb shelters in their basements, sometimes overnight, with increasing frequency – the price of the ceasefire violations is too high for the women, men and children in eastern Ukraine," he said.
Forces must disengage and implement a full and sustainable ceasefire, in line with the Minsk agreement of February 2015, he said.
"The many casualties we have documented in recent weeks suggest that neither Ukrainian forces nor the armed groups are taking the necessary precautions to protect civilians," he said.
Shelling was responsible for more than half the recorded casualties in June and July, with the rest due to mines, explosive remnants of war, booby traps and improvised explosive devices (IEDs).
"U.N. human rights teams on both sides of the contact line have documented reports of civilian homes looted, schools and hospitals shelled or used by Ukrainian forces and armed groups," Zeid said.
The 12-point Minsk peace deal was brokered by Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France in February 2015. The aim was to end a conflict that the U.N. rights office said on Wednesday had killed over 9,550 people, including soldiers, civilians and members of armed groups, since April 2014.
Conditions including a complete cessation of fighting, pull-back of heavy weapons from the front line, and release of prisoners of war have not yet been fulfilled, raising concerns the ceasefire agreement could collapse.
BUJUMBURA (Reuters) - Burundi said it would refuse to allow United Nations police onto its territory to monitor the security and human rights situation after the U.N. Security Council voted to send 228 officers.
More than 450 people have been killed since President Pierre Nkurunziza won a third term last year, a move his opponents say violated the constitution and a peace deal that ended a civil war in 2005. Government and opposition officials were among those killed in tit-for-tat violence by rival sides.
About a quarter of a million people have fled the violence, which has alarmed neighbouring countries in a region where memories of Rwanda's 1994 genocide remain raw. Like Rwanda, Burundi has an ethnic Hutu majority and a Tutsi minority.
The Security Council voted on Friday to authorise the police deployment, though four of the 15 members abstained.
"Concerning the deployment of the police force, the government of Burundi reminds the Security Council that ... every resolution ... has to be approved by the host country, which was not, unfortunately, the case," government spokesman Phillipe Nzobonariba said in a statement late on Tuesday.
"The government ... rejects any resolution measure in connection with sending any force on its territory in violation of elementary rules governing the family of United Nations and especially violating the sovereignty of its territory."
Burundi's U.N. Ambassador Albert Shingiro said in July his country would only accept up to 50 unarmed U.N. police.
The United Nations needs approval from Burundi's government to send the police.
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Brazil's suspended President Dilma Rousseff has decided not to attend the torch ceremony opening the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, an aide said on Tuesday, one day after she said in an interview she would not play second fiddle to interim President Michel Temer.
Rousseff, who is facing an impeachment trial that could confirm Temer as her successor one month from now, was invited to attend the ceremony in Rio's Maracaná stadium, where Temer will declare the Games open on Aug. 5.
"She is not going," the Rousseff aide told Reuters.
Rousseff said in an interview with Radio France Internationale broadcast on Monday that she did not intend to take part in the Olympics in a "secondary position."
A spokesman for Temer, Rousseff's former vice president who is now running Brazil, said she was welcome to attend the launch of the Games, but not at Temer's side in the VIP balcony.
"She will be in the stands below him," spokesman Marcio de Freitas said in a message to Reuters.
The presence of both leaders at the ceremony would have been awkward for foreign dignitaries, diplomats said.
Rousseff believes that, impeachment or no impeachment, she deserved to be there. She told RFI that her government and that of her mentor and Workers Party leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva had done most of the work to win the Olympics for Rio de Janeiro and build the infrastructure for the global sports event.
The faulty, unfinished apartments for athletes at the Olympic village were the responsibility of the Rio city government and private builders it contracted, not the federal government, she said in the interview.
Polls of senators show that Brazil's first female president will be convicted of breaking budget laws and definitively removed from office at the end of August, confirming Temer as president for the remainder of her term through 2018.
Rousseff's opponents blame her for leading Brazil into its worst recession since the 1930s and benefiting from the country's biggest-ever corruption scandal at oil company Petrobras.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama said it was possible that Russia  would try to influence the U.S. presidential election, after a leak of Democratic National Committee emails that experts have attributed to Russian hackers.
"Anything is possible," Obama told NBC News in an interview broadcast on Tuesday when asked if the Russians would try to influence the Nov. 8 election.
Obama said the Federal Bureau of Investigation was investigating the leak on Friday of more than 19,000 DNC emails, which showed the committee had favoured Hillary Clinton over  Senator Bernie Sanders for the party's presidential nomination.
"I know that experts have attributed this to the Russians," Obama said.
"What we do know is that the Russians hack our systems, not just government systems but private systems," he said.
The email leak forced Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida to resign as chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee.
Clinton, who received the Democratic nomination on Tuesday at the party's convention in Philadelphia, will face Republican Donald Trump in the election.
"What the motives were in terms of the leaks, all that, I can't say directly. What I do know is that Donald Trump has repeatedly expressed admiration for Vladimir Putin," Obama  said.
Trump has often praised Putin, calling him a "strong leader." The New York businessman also told the New York Times last week that with him in the White House, NATO might not automatically defend the Baltic states that were once part of the Russian-led Soviet Union.
"I think that Trump has gotten pretty favourable coverage back in Russia," Obama said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Democrats beat Republicans in U.S. television ratings, according to Nielsen data released on Tuesday for the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
An estimated 26 million people watched Monday evening  between 10 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. Eastern time, when first lady Michelle Obama and Senator Bernie Sanders were among the key speakers, Nielsen said. The data represents people watching across seven broadcast and cable TV networks.
The total is about three million more TV eyes than for the first night of the Republican convention last week when White House contender Donald Trump's wife Melania was the keynote speaker.
All in all, some 23 million Americans watched the first night of the Republican convention last week - in line with the audience for the 2012 gathering. Trump's big acceptance speech on Thursday night last week, however, failed to deliver the record audiences many TV executives had been expecting.
In 2012, the Democratic convention generally drew more nightly TV viewers than the Republican gathering, when Mitt Romney was running for the White House.
NEW DELHI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - India's parliament on Tuesday approved a controversial law that would allow children to work for family businesses, despite widespread concern by the United Nations and other rights advocates that it will push more children into labour.
A week after the bill was passed by the upper house of parliament, India's lower house approved the measure that brings a raft of changes to a three-decade-old child labour prohibition law. The bill now goes for the President's assent before becoming law.
The U.N. Children's Agency (UNICEF) as well as many others have raised alarm over two particular amendments - permitting children to work for their families and reducing the number of banned professions for adolescents.
A 2015 report by the International Labour Organization (ILO) put the number of child workers in India ages 5 to 17 at 5.7 million, out of 168 million globally.
More than half of India's child workers are employed in agriculture and more than a quarter in manufacturing - embroidering clothes, weaving carpets or making match sticks. Children also work in restaurants, shops and hotels and as domestic workers.
The new legislation extends a ban on child labour under 14 to all sectors. Previously, only 18 hazardous occupations and 65 processes such as mining, gem cutting and cement manufacturing were outlawed.
It also stiffens penalties for those employing children,  doubling jail terms to two years and increasing fines to 50,000 rupees (563 pounds) from 20,000 rupees ($300).
While child rights groups have welcomed such changes, there has been concern over other amendments proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government.
For example, children will be allowed to work in family businesses, outside of school hours and during holidays, and in entertainment and sports if it does not affect their education.
Also, children 15 to 18 will be permitted to work, except in mines and industries where they would be exposed to inflammable substances and hazardous processes.
The government says the exemptions aim to strike a balance between education and India's economic reality, in which parents rely on children to help with farming or artisanal work to fight poverty or pass on a family trade.
"The purpose of this very act is that we should be able to  practically implement it," Labour and Employment Minister Bandaru Dattatreya told parliament. "That's why we are giving some exemptions."
UNICEF had urged India to exclude family work from the proposed law and include an "exhaustive list" of hazardous occupations.
"To strengthen the Bill and provide a protective legal framework for children, UNICEF India strongly recommends the removal of 'children helping in family enterprises'," it said in a statement on Monday.
"This will protect children from being exploited in invisible forms of work, from trafficking and from boys and girls dropping out of school due to long hours of work," it said.
BAMAKO (Reuters) - Malian forces arrested a regional leader of Islamist group Ansar Dine in central Mali on Tuesday, after it claimed an attack in the region that killed 17 soldiers, the army spokesman said.
Ansar Dine laid claim to the attack last week by gunmen who fired on troop positions, burned buildings and pillaged shops, killing 17 Malian soldiers and wounded 35 on an army base in the central town of Nampala last week.
Army spokesman Modibo Naman Traore said the state security services arrested the commander, Mahmoud Barry - nicknamed "Abou Yehiya" - as he was travelling on a road between Nampala and the town of Dogofri.
"He is close to Lyad Ag Ghali, the chief of Ansar Dine," Traore said, adding that Barry had also planned an attack on the town of Nara that killed 12 people.
French forces intervened in 2013 to push back Islamist fighters who had hijacked a Tuareg uprising to take over northern Mali. But despite 11,000 United Nations peacekeepers deployed in the country since, insecurity has worsened and militants still launch frequent attacks across the vast desert country and its neighbours.
ISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish special forces backed by helicopters, drones and the navy hunted a remaining group of commandos thought to have tried to capture or kill President Tayyip Erdogan during a failed coup, as a crackdown on suspected plotters widened on Tuesday.
More than 1,000 members of the security forces were involved in the manhunt for the 11 rogue soldiers in the hills around the Mediterranean coastal resort of Marmaris, where Erdogan was holidaying on the night of the coup attempt, officials said.
Erdogan and the government accuse U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen of orchestrating the attempted power grab and have launched a crackdown on his suspected followers. More than 60,000 soldiers, police, judges and civil servants have been arrested, suspended or put under investigation.
The religious affairs directorate removed another 620 staff including preachers and instructors in the Koran on Tuesday, bringing to more than 1,100 the number of people it has purged since the July 15 coup attempt.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said two Turkish ambassadors, currently in Ankara, had also been removed. Former Istanbul governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu was detained and his house searched.
"There is no institution which this structure has not infiltrated," Erdogan's son-in-law, Energy Minister Berat Albayrak, said in a televised interview, referring to Gulen's network of followers.
"Every institution is being assessed and will be assessed," he said. The response from the Turkish authorities would, he said, be just and not amount to a witch-hunt.
The coup attempt raised particular questions about the air force, some of whose senior members were deeply involved, and could lead to the re-investigation of past incidents including the downing by the Turkish military of a Russian warplane near the Syrian border last year, Albayrak said.
The incident provoked Russian trade sanctions but there are signs of rapprochement, with Turkey thanking Moscow for its solid support during the abortive putsch. By contrast it has frosty ties with Europe, which has criticised the post-coup crackdown, and with the United States, which it has urged to extradite Gulen.
Albayrak made the comments as the highest-level Turkish delegation since the downing of the jet visited Moscow and officials announced a planned meeting between Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin next month.
"Erdogan will be eager to send a message to Washington and EU capitals that Turkey has other options," said Tim Ash, a strategist at Nomura and a veteran Turkey watcher.
The Turkish parliament set up on Tuesday a commission to investigate the coup attempt, with the backing of all political parties. It will also examine the allegations that the Gulen movement infiltrated the government and instigated the coup attempt.
Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said suspects were now being questioned. "Those testimonies will give us a lot of information about the Gulen movement's influence within Turkey," he said during the commission's discussions.
Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in the United States since 1999, denies involvement and says the coup may have been orchestrated by Erdogan himself to justify a crackdown, a suggestion the president has roundly condemned.
In an op-ed in the New York Times, Gulen wrote that if members of his "Hizmet" (Service) network had been involved in the attempted coup they had betrayed his ideals, saying Erdogan's accusations revealed "his systematic and dangerous drive towards one-man rule".
Almost two thirds of Turks believe Gulen was behind the coup attempt, according to a poll released on Tuesday. The Andy-Ar survey showed nearly 4 percent blamed the United States or foreign powers and barely 2 percent blamed Erdogan.
On July 15 rogue soldiers commandeered fighters jets, helicopters and tanks to close bridges and try to seize airports. They bombed parliament, police headquarters and other key buildings in their bid for power. At least 246 people were killed, many of them civilians, and 2,000 wounded.
Around a third of Turkey's roughly 360 serving generals have been detained since the abortive coup, more than 100 of them already charged pending trial.
Two Turkish generals based in Afghanistan were detained in Dubai, a Turkish official said on Tuesday, naming them as Major-General Cahit Bakir, a commander of Turkish forces serving in the international NATO-led security force in Afghanistan, and Brigadier Sener Topuc, who oversees education and aid in the country.
The 11 soldiers being hunted in Marmaris were among a group of commandos who attacked a hotel where Erdogan had been staying. Seven others were detained at a police checkpoint on Monday.
As the coup unfolded, Erdogan said the plotters had tried to attack him in Marmaris, bombing places where he had been shortly after he left. He "evaded death by minutes", an official close to him said at the time.
"It was an assassination attempt against Erdogan and this is being taken very seriously ... Searches are continuing in Marmaris and the surrounding areas with around 1,000 members of the security forces," another official said on Tuesday.
"The searches will continue uninterrupted until these people are found."
Weapons, hand grenades and ammunition have been seized in the countryside around Marmaris in an operation based on information from detained soldiers, said Amir Cicek, governor of Mugla province where Marmaris is located.
Special forces police, commandos, the coast guard and the navy were all involved, Cicek said in a statement.
The scale of the arrests and suspensions following the coup attempt have raised concerns among rights groups and Western countries, which fear that Erdogan is capitalising on it to muzzle dissent and remove opponents across the board.
Erdogan has declared a state of emergency, which allows him to sign new laws without prior parliamentary approval and limit rights as he deems necessary. In his first such decree, Erdogan ordered the closure of thousands of private schools, charities and foundations with suspected links to Gulen.
The measure went "well beyond the legitimate aim of promoting accountability for the bloody July 15 coup attempt," said Emma Sinclair-Webb, Turkey director at Human Rights Watch.
"It is an unvarnished move for an arbitrary, mass and permanent purge of the civil service, prosecutors and judges, and to close down private institutions and associations without evidence, justification or due process," she said.
Turkey wants the United States to extradite the cleric, a call supported on Tuesday by Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the leader of Turkey's main secularist opposition, but Washington has said it will do so only if there is clear evidence of wrongdoing.
In a sign of Washington's concerns about the security situation, the U.S. Embassy in Ankara said on Tuesday employees' family members had been authorised to leave voluntarily, citing a possible "increase in police or military activities and restrictions on movement" by the Turkish authorities.
SAGAMIHARA, Japan (Reuters) - A knife-wielding man broke into a facility for the disabled in a small town near Tokyo early on Tuesday and killed 19 patients as they slept, authorities said, Japan's worst mass killing since World War Two.
At least 25 other residents were wounded in the attack at the Tsukui Yamayuri-En facility for mentally and physically disabled in Sagamihara town, about 25 miles (40 km) southwest of Tokyo.
"This is a very heart-wrenching and shocking incident in which many innocent people became victims," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a regular news conference in Tokyo.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe later told a gathering in Tokyo: "The lives of many innocent people were taken away and I am greatly shocked. We will make every effort to discover the facts and prevent a reoccurance."
The suspect was a 26-year-old former employee of the facility who gave himself up to police. The man, Satoshi Uematsu, said in letters he wrote in February that he could "obliterate 470 disabled people", Kyodo news agency reported.
He said he would kill 260 severely disabled people at two areas in the facility during a night shift, and would not hurt employees.
"My goal is a world in which the severely disabled can be euthanized, with their guardians’ consent, if they are unable to live at home and be active in society," Uematsu wrote in the two letters given to the speaker of the lower house of parliament, Kyodo reported.
Uematsu was committed to hospital after he expressed a "willingness to kill severely disabled people", an official in Sagamihara told Reuters. He was freed on March 2 after a doctor deemed he had improved, the official said.
Uematsu lived near the facility, and a neighbour described him as a polite, young man who always greeted him with a smile.
"It would be easier to understand if there had been a warning but there were no signs," said Akihiro Hasegawa, 73. "We didn't know the darkness of his heart."
The suspect apparently began changing about five months ago, said Yuji Kuroiwa, the governor of Kanagawa prefecture, where the facility is located.
"You could say there were warning signs, but it's difficult to say if this could have been prevented," he told reporters.
"This was not an impulsive crime ... He went in the dark of the night, opened one door at a time, and stabbed sleeping people one by one," Kuroiwa said. "I just can't believe the cruelty of this crime. We need to prevent this from ever happening again."
Staff at the facility called police at 2.30 a.m. local time (1830 London time Monday) with reports of a man armed with a knife on the grounds, media reports said. The man wore a black T-shirt and trousers, the reports said.
The 3-hectare (7.6 acre) facility was established by the local government. Surrounded by tree-covered mountains and on the banks of the Sagami River, it cares for people with a wide range of disabilities.
The facility's website said the centre had a maximum capacity of 160 people, including staff.
Japan has one of the lowest crime rates in the world and residents of Sagamihara said they were in shock. The last murder in the area was 10 years ago.
"This is a peaceful, quiet town so I never thought such an incident would happen here," said Oshikazu Shimo, one of many  residents of the town who gathered near the facility.
Taxi driver Susumu Fujimura said of the attacker: "He said 'we should get rid of disabled people' but he's the worthless one."
"That kind of person can't defend themselves," Fujimura said, referring to the victims. "That's why so many died. It makes you weep to think of somebody just murdering them."
The dead ranged in age from 19 to 70 and included nine males and 10 females, Kyodo said.
Police had recovered a bag with several knives, at least one stained with blood, a Kanagawa prefecture official said.
At least 29 emergency squads responded to the attack, Kyodo reported, with those wounded taken to at least six hospitals in the western Tokyo area.
Such mass killings are extremely rare in Japan and typically involve stabbings. Japan has strict gun laws and possession of firearms by the public is rare.
Eight children were stabbed to death at their school in Osaka by a former janitor in 2001. Seven people died in 2008 when a man drove a truck into a crowd and began stabbing people in Tokyo's popular electronics and "anime" district of Akihabara.
A revision to Japan's Swords and Firearms Control Law was introduced in 2009 in the wake of that attack, banning the possession of double-edged knives and further tightening gun-ownership rules.
Members of a doomsday cult killed 12 people and made thousands ill in 1995 in simultaneous attacks with sarin nerve gas on five Tokyo rush-hour subway trains.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A patient shot a doctor in a university clinic in Berlin on Tuesday before killing himself, but there were "no signs at all" of a link with Islamist militancy, police in the German capital said.
Germany is on edge because of a spate of violent attacks on civilians by men of Middle Eastern or Asian origin since July 18 that have killed 10 people. Islamic State militants claimed responsibility for two of those four attacks before Tuesday.
Berlin police said the doctor had sustained life-threatening injuries in the attack at the Benjamin Franklin campus of the Charite university hospital in the southwest of the city and died shortly afterwards.
They added that the situation at the hospital in Berlin's Steglitz district was now "under control" and investigators were on the scene to determine the background to the crime.
"There is currently no danger," police said on Twitter.
Winfrid Wenzel, a spokesman for Berlin police, said the crime took place in the jaw surgery area of an outpatient clinic where the doctor was in a treatment session with the patient.
"In the course of the consultation, the patient pulled out a gun and fired several shots at the doctor. The attacker then directly turned the gun on himself and died as a result of the shots," Wenzel told Reuters TV.
He said police did not yet have information on the suspect's background, history, personal details or motivation, but added:
"We do not have a single indication that this crime was motivated by extremism or Islamists."
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak will get sweeping security powers on Monday amid planned protests calling for his resignation over U.S. allegations that millions of dollars from a state fund wound up in his personal bank account.
The new National Security Council (NSC) Act, which comes into force on Aug. 1, allows Najib to designate any area as a "security area", where he can deploy forces to search any individual, vehicle or premise without a warrant. It also allows investigators to dispense with formal inquests into killings by the police or armed forces in those areas.
Najib's ruling coalition promoted the law as a means to counter threats to security in predominantly Muslim Malaysia, which has long dealt with a fringe element of radical Islamists.
But critics say the law's expansive powers threaten human rights and democracy in the middle-income emerging nation, and could now be used to silence critics of the One Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) fund scandal.
"The concern among the civil society and others is because the NSC can be used against anything that the government is unhappy with," said Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief executive of the Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs, adding that it could extend to public rallies.
"It does give the PM a huge amount of power to declare emergency zones...," he said.
The law was passed on the last day of the legislation session in December, surprising the opposition, as Najib came under mounting criticism over the multi-billion dollar scandal surrounding the 1MDB fund, which he founded and whose advisory council he chaired until recently.
The law was enacted without the customary royal assent from Malaysia's king, who had asked for some changes.
Pressure on Najib to step down mounted last week after the U.S. Justice Department filed civil lawsuits alleging that over $3.5 billion was misappropriated from 1MDB. The lawsuits seek to seize more than $1 billion of assets allegedly siphoned from the fund, saying they were part of "an international conspiracy to launder money".
The civil lawsuits do not name Najib, but refer to a high-ranking government official who received over $700 million of the misappropriated funds. A source familiar with the investigations told Reuters the official, named as Malaysian Official 1 in the lawsuits, was Najib.
Najib, who has denied any wrongdoing, has said Malaysia will cooperate in international investigations of the 1MDB case.
The ruling party suffered unprecedented losses in the 2008 general elections and then lost the popular vote in 2013 under Najib's leadership. The next general election must be called by 2018.
The NSC is coming into force amid growing complaints about assaults on civil liberties in Malaysia.
Najib has in recent months used the colonial era Sedition Act and other draconian laws to arrest government critics, jail opposition leaders and stifle free speech by suspending media groups and blogs.
"The likelihood of the NSC being utilized in order to crack down against any act of civil movement is likely to steadily increase as manoeuvring space for the PM decreases," said Sevan Doraisamy, executive director at Suaram, a human rights NGO.
Malaysia's opposition coalition is planning an anti-Najib rally on July 30. Pro-democracy group Bersih, whose street protests last year drew a 200,000-strong crowd, is also planning a separate rally, but has not set a date.
While rallies can still be organised under the Peaceful Assembly Act, the NSC can declare any area -- a building, a street or a city -- a "security area", where protests would be disallowed.
Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar said on Monday he will not allow rallies that demand Najib step down from power.
"Red Shirt" supporters from Najib's ruling United Malays National Organisation have vowed to hold a counter-rally. They did so last September and it turned rowdy when participants breached security barricades and clashed with riot police.
"I think they (the government) are getting nervous about 1MDB and the reaction of the people," said civil rights activist and lawyer Ambiga Sreenevasan, adding that the public was also "very nervous" about the new security law.
VIENTIANE/GENEVA (Reuters) - The United States said on Tuesday it hoped to announce in early August details of planned military cooperation and intelligence sharing with Russia on Syria, and a United Nations envoy said he would also aim to resume peace talks next month.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Washington and Moscow, which support opposing sides in Syria's five-year-old conflict, had made progress in recent days towards working more closely together.
The proposals would have the two powers share intelligence to coordinate air strikes against the al Qaeda-affiliated Nusra Front and prohibit the Syrian air force from attacking rebel groups labeled as moderate.
Efforts to bridge the divide between the United States and Russia and bring Syrian government and opposition forces back to negotiations come after pro-government forces have effectively put rebel-held districts of Aleppo under siege.
Concern is growing for at least 250,000 people who have been trapped in rebel-controlled eastern Aleppo since early July, and the U.N aid chief asked on Monday for weekly 48-hour pauses in fighting to allow food and aid to be delivered.
Syrian state television said on Tuesday the army had sent text messages to residents and fighters in eastern Aleppo, saying it will grant safe passage to whoever wants to leave and asking militia to put down their weapons.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said 25 people, including three women and eight children, were killed in the last 24 hours in the Mashhad quarter of rebel-held Aleppo, when it was hit by barrel bombs thrown from helicopters.
In Geneva, U.N. Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura said he aimed to convene a new round of peace talks toward the end of August, quietly scrapping a previous Aug. 1 deadline to reach agreement on a framework for a political transition.
"Our aim, let me say very clearly, is to proceed with a third round of intra-Syrian talks towards the end of August," De Mistura told reporters after meeting U.S. Syria envoy Michael Ratney and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov.
De Mistura said he strongly hoped Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov would make concrete and visible progress because that would improve the situation on the ground and the environment for the peace talks, although such progress was not a precondition for talks.
The U.S. State Department said in a statement after the Geneva meeting that Washington and Moscow had urged the United Nations to prepare a proposal for political transition - based on Security Council resolutions and input from Syrian parties - which would serve as the starting point for future talks.
The statement said Washington had emphasized the need to restore "compliance with the terms of the cessation of hostilities - particularly in Aleppo city - as well as the need to improve humanitarian access, as positive progress in these areas would significantly improve the prospects for successful talks".
Kerry has defended the proposal despite deep scepticism among top American military and intelligence officials, including Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford, over working with Russia.
"My hope is that somewhere in early August we would be in a position to stand up in front of you and tell you what we're able to do with the hopes it can make a difference to lives of people in Syria and to the course of the war," Kerry said after meeting Lavrov.
During the discussions, he and Lavrov outlined the next stage of implementing the plan, including a series of technical-level meetings to address concerns by the U.S. military and intelligence officers.
Kerry's State Department and White House allies say the plan is the best chance to limit the fighting that is driving thousands of Syrian civilians - with some trained Islamic State fighters among them - into exile in Europe, and preventing humanitarian aid from reaching tens of thousands more.
A senior Western diplomat said the lack of transparency of the U.S.-Russia talks was frustrating and - with what the diplomat said was increased targeting of civilians and hospitals on the ground - it was hard to foresee any deal.
"The Americans are risking a lot for a deal that is as unlikely to be honored as previous engagements the Russians have made," the diplomat said.
Another diplomat said it was unlikely De Mistura would meet his new target of resuming talks in August. "In reality it means there will be nothing in August, it means September," the diplomat said.
"The window of opportunity is extremely limited after that ... Military cooperation has become a pre-requisite,(peace talks) won’t advance without it".
Syria's government said on Sunday it was ready for further peace talks with the opposition and that it was intent on a political solution to the conflict.
Basma Kodmani, a member of the main Syrian opposition High Negotiations Committee, said the HNC was "open to going back to Geneva to discuss options" but added that there must be a reduction in the current level of violence.
"The situation is absolutely horrendous at this moment," she told Reuters. "What Mr De Mistura is probably hoping is that the agreement between Russia and the U.S. will result in a halt to the regime's raids, and Russian air raids as well."
Russia's military intervention in support of President Bashar al-Assad last year helped to turn the tide of the war after the government had lost ground to rebel fighters in the west of the country.
On Sunday Syrian government air strikes put four hospitals in Aleppo province out of action, while several people in the government-controlled ancient quarter of Damascus were killed when a mortar bomb hit a restaurant.
International humanitarian groups have condemned the tightening siege on rebel-held parts of Aleppo city.
"Food there is expected to run out over the next few weeks," a joint statement from international aid groups including Oxfam and Mercy Corps said on Tuesday. "A food warehouse was also targeted with almost 10,000 food parcels destroyed, while fuel ... is dangerously low," the statement said.
The United Nations said a 48-truck convoy of international aid organizations was heading to the besieged areas of Talbiseh in northern Homs province, carrying food aid for 40,000 people.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande said on Tuesday the Islamist militant threat to France and Europe has never been so severe as now, after two assailants loyal to Islamic State attacked a church and slit the throat of an elderly priest.
In a brief televised address, he said the war against Islamist militancy both abroad and at home would be long.
"In the face of this threat that has never been greater in France and Europe, the government is absolutely determined (to defeat) terrorism," Hollande said.
SOFIA (Reuters) - Bulgaria toned down its criticism of Moscow on Tuesday, saying Russian aircraft had not been involved in violations of its air space but once again blamed Russia for not observing international norms in aviation.
Bulgarian Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev said on Sunday there had been a rise in violations of its air space by Russian military and commercial aircraft in the past month, calling the alleged breaches a "provocations toward Bulgaria and its air forces". Russia rejected the allegations.
Nenchev said Russian military aircraft had entered what he termed "Bulgaria's area of responsibility" in NATO airspace four times in the past month while Russian passenger planes breached the air space six times in this period, adding the planes had turned off their transponders.
Russia said on Monday its aircraft flying over the Black Sea had followed international rules and confined themselves to neutral zones.
However, while Bulgaria's Defence Ministry said on Tuesday it was not seeking confrontation with anyone, it maintained there had been "cases of non-observation of the international norms".
"They did not have their transponders turned on and missed to declare their flight plans. There are also cases of flights of aircrafts without distinguishing signs," it said.
Russia said on Monday it had kept the transponders on the aircraft at all times.
Bulgaria, a former Communist state and once staunch ally of Moscow, is almost entirely dependent on Russian energy supplies, and many Bulgarians feel a deep affinity for their giant neighbour across the Black Sea.
"We express concerns about keeping the mutual respect and trust among the Black Sea countries in the realisation of flights in the international airspace over the inland water areas of the Black Sea," the ministry said.
MOGADISHU (Reuters) - Suicide bombers killed at least 13 people at the gates of the African Union's main peacekeeping base in the Somali capital on Tuesday, police said, in an attack claimed by the Islamist militants of al Shabaab.
The force of the bombings shattered windows at Mogadishu's nearby airport, showered arriving passengers with glass and forced the suspension of flights, police and witnesses said.
The United States condemned the attack on the AMISOM peacekeeping force's base, the latest by the militant group that wants to topple Somalia's western-backed government and rule the Horn of Africa country according to sharia law.
"At least 13 people - mostly security forces - died in the two car bomb blasts," and 12 others were wounded, police officer Abdiqadir Omar told Reuters. Al Shabaab, which is linked to al Qaeda, said it set off two car bombs.
Police said the first attacker detonated a car bomb and the second tried to storm the base on foot, but was shot and exploded at the gate. The guards were caught in the blast as they escorted U.N. personnel into the base, known as Halane.
In a statement, White House spokesman Ned Price said the U.S. stood with Somalia in its fight against "despicable acts of terrorism that seek to destabilise" the country.
"We remain committed to helping Somalia progress along a path towards peace and prosperity and the defeat of terrorist groups, including al-Shabaab,” he said.
AMISOM said on Twitter it condemned the "senseless attacks that aim to disrupt and cripple the lives of ordinary Somalis". There was no immediate comment from the United Nations.
People arriving on international flights said the blasts shattered windows in the airport buildings.
"We were greeted by two loud blasts. The glass of the airport building fell on us," said Ali Nur, who had just got off a plane from Nairobi.
Al Shabaab regularly attacks AMISOM, which is made up of about 22,000 military personnel from Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and other African countries helping to support Somalia's government and army.
Somalia was plunged into anarchy in the early 1990s following the toppling of military dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.
The U.N. refugee agency on Tuesday increased its funding appeal to nearly $500 million to finance the voluntary return and reintegration of Somali refugees from the sprawling Dadaab camp in Kenya, which hosts some 330,000 Somalis.
Kenya, citing security threats, said last month it aims to reduce by almost half the population of the camp.
"Despite the security situation currently in Somalia, people are returning on a daily basis," UNHCR's representative in Somalia Caroline van Buren told a news briefing in Geneva.
"We cannot assure the refugees that they will be safe, but we take precautions," she said. "For instance, when we have return convoys, we inform AMISOM of the convoys, the routes they will be taking, the number of vehicles, the number of people. It is not 100 percent, but we are doing the best we can."
BELGRADE (Reuters) - Serbia and Croatia, ex-Yugoslav neighbours and wartime foes from the 1990s, traded protests on Tuesday over a Croatian move to rehabilitate a World War Two Catholic cleric whom Serbia still views as a war criminal.
The two Balkan powers now have even diplomatic ties, but the row over Alojzije Stepinac threatened to re-awaken regional tensions which lie below the surface.
Stepinac, an archbishop and cardinal, was jailed in 1946 by the then Yugoslav Communist regime for collaborating with Italian and Nazi German occupiers and the Nazi-allied Ustasha regime of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH).
In 1997 he was beatified by the Catholic Church and declared a martyr by Pope John Paul II in 1998.
Last week, a court in Croatia, a European Union member, annulled the verdict against Stepinac, who died in 1960, arguing that the 1946 trial had violated the principles of criminal law.
Around 1.2 million people, including 580,000 civilians were killed in Yugoslavia during World War Two, most of them by Nazi-allied forces.
The World War Two grievances played a key role in the fomenting of conflicts in 1990s and regional tensions still persist.
Top officials in Serbia, a EU candidate, including President Tomislav Nikolic and Prime Minister-designate Aleksandar Vucic criticised the ruling, saying Stepinac played a pivotal role in the killing of hundreds of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and anti-fascists between 1941 and 1945.
On Tuesday, Croatia's centre-right outgoing government sent a protest note to Belgrade saying such a rhetoric fuelled intolerance between the two nations.
"Such rhetoric ... was distancing Serbia from endorsing European value and its accession to the European family," the Croatian foreign ministry said in the note carried by the Hina news agency.
Rehabilitation of World War Two anti communists and Quisling leaders in former Yugoslav republics started after the collapse of the then federal state as newly independent countries sought to shed their Communist legacy.
In a similar move in 2015, Serbia rehabilitated World War Two royalist commander and convicted Nazi collaborator Dragoljub 'Draza' Mihailovic, a move described by Croatia akin to forgiving Hitler.
Later on Tuesday, Serbia's Foreign Ministry replied to Zagreb to protest Stepinac's rehabilitation saying Belgrade was "horrified with the rehabilitation of the Ustasha NDH."
"Stepinac was the vicar of the Ustasha movement. He blessed crimes and the Ustasha state," Serbian Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic said.
BOSTON (Reuters) - A Massachusetts man was arrested and charged on Tuesday with threatening on Facebook to burn down a Boston mosque in the wake of the November attacks in Paris, where Islamic State gunmen and suicide bombers killed 130 people.
Patrick Keogan, a 44-year-old resident of the Boston suburb of Winchester, was arrested and charged with making a criminal threat over the internet and with being a convicted felon illegally in possession of ammunition, federal prosecutors said.
The day after the deadly Paris attack, Keogan posted an image on the Facebook page of the Islamic Society of Boston Cultural Center showing a mosque in flames with the caption "burn your local mosque," prosecutors said.
In court papers, they said leaders of the Islamic Center opted to report the threat because it followed so closely on the Paris attacks, "although it is not uncommon for the ISBCC to receive hateful and anti-Muslim messages."
A lawyer for Keogan and officials with the Islamic Society of Boston did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
When FBI officials interviewed Keogan by phone before his arrest, he said he was "sorry and that he needs to smarten up as he is too old to act this way," according to court papers. Keogan also told the FBI that he had not intended to harm anyone or damage the mosque.
Prosecutors said an investigation into Keogan later revealed he was buying ammunition, which he was legally prohibited from doing due to earlier convictions on charges of assault and battery and operating a motor vehicle under the influence of liquor.
Keogan could be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison if convicted.
A series of deadly attacks by Islamic State militants and those inspired by the group have rocked cities in the United States and Europe over the past few months and triggered a wave of threats against U.S. mosques.
Last month a Connecticut man was sentenced to six months in prison after shooting at an unoccupied mosque near his Meriden home late at night following the Paris attacks. No one was hurt in the incident. [nL1N1991RF]
A report by the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the University of California, Berkeley, found the number of threats against U.S. mosques hit a record high of 78 last year, the most since the group began tracking such incidents in 2009.
TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Libya's U.N.-backed government said on Tuesday it had summoned France's ambassador to protest over the presence of French special forces in eastern Libya.
The summons came after France confirmed last week that three of its soldiers had been killed when a helicopter crashed near the eastern city of Benghazi. France said they had been conducting intelligence operations.
Special forces teams from countries including France, Britain and the United States have been on the ground in western and eastern Libya to fight Islamist militants. The French have been working alongside forces loyal to eastern commander Khalifa Haftar.
"The GNA considered the French presence in Libya's eastern region as a breach of international norms and sovereignty which it rejects," a statement from the Government of National Accord (GNA) said.
It said GNA head Fayez Seraj had demanded from French Ambassador Antoine Sivan "an official explanation from the French government about the truth of what happened". They met on the sidelines of an Arab League summit in Nouakchott, Mauritania.
Sivan reiterated his country's support for the GNA and promised a formal note to explain the circumstances of the incident, the statement said.
France and other Western powers have backed the GNA, the result of a U.N.-mediated deal signed in December. But the GNA has so far been opposed by Haftar and his allies in the east.
Since the confirmation of the French deaths, there have been protests against both the French presence and the GNA's leadership in Tripoli and Misrata, another western city.
Armed groups from both cities were aligned on the opposite side to Haftar's forces in the conflict that broke out in Libya in 2014.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesian President Joko Widodo is expected to announce his second cabinet reshuffle in less than two years on Wednesday, two sources close to the matter said.
When asked whether the announcement would be made on Wednesday, a palace official, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue, said: "Yes".
A second source close to the matter confirmed that a reshuffle would be announced on Wednesday.
Neither source said which ministers would be replaced. Widodo met a number of his ministers late on Tuesday at the presidential palace in central Jakarta.
The reshuffle comes nearly a year after Widodo replaced key members of his economics team in an effort to boost investor confidence over a flagging economy.
A year on, analysts say this week's reshuffle is likely to be politically motivated as Widodo seeks to consolidate support from parties that have been keen to join the ruling coalition.
"There is the need to acknowledge the support of parties like Golkar which have thrown their weight behind his government," said Keith Loveard of Jakarta-based Concord Consulting, referring to Indonesia's second biggest political party.
"Assuming his choices are good ones the public will accept this as part of fine-tuning and a normal part of the political process," he added.
SAN JOSE (Reuters) - Costa Rica will temporarily receive migrants at risk of persecution in Central America, an official with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said on Tuesday.
The UNHCR and the International Organization for Migration will cover the costs, said the official, Carlos Maldonado.
Maldonado added there would only be up to 200 people at a time in Costa Rica under this status.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A doctor who was shot at by a patient in a university clinic in southwestern Berlin has died, police in Berlin said on Twitter, adding that they had no indications that anyone else was injured or that there were any other perpetrators.
Police added that the situation at the Benjamin Franklin campus of the Charite university hospital was now "under control" and investigators were on the scene to determine the background to the crime.
MUNICH (Reuters) - Islamist terrorism has arrived in Germany and politicians must address the public's concerns about security and immigration, Bavaria state premier Horst Seehofer said on Tuesday.
"Each attack, each act of terrorism, is one too many. Islamist terrorism has arrived in Germany," Seehofer told a news conference.
A spate of attacks in Germany since July 18 have left 11 people dead and dozens injured, fuelling public unease about Chancellor Angela Merkel's open-door refugee policy. More than a million migrants entered Germany last year, many fleeing conflict in Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq.
KARACHI, Pakistan (Reuters) - Gunmen on Tuesday killed two Pakistan army officials in Karachi, where paramilitary forces have been cracking down on Islamist militants and criminal gangs for almost three years, police and media said.
The killings are the latest attacks in the busy port city of 20 million people riven by political, ethnic and sectarian violence, where one of the most popular singers of Sufi devotional music, Amjad Sabri, was shot dead last month.
Police said the soldiers, who belonged to an intelligence agency, were patrolling a crowded area of the southern city when their vehicle was attacked.
"The attackers were on a motorcycle and managed to escape through the congested narrow lanes," senior police officer Raja Umar Khattab told Reuters.
Karachi police chief Mushtaq Mehar said one of the victims died and the other was in critical condition, but the death of the second was confirmed by a doctor at the city's Jinnah Hospital, which received both bodies.
Better security in Karachi has been one of the showcase successes of the crackdown, although two days before Sabri's killing, the son of the provincial chief justice was kidnapped from an upscale shopping area. He was rescued later.
Karachi's murder rate fell by half after the paramilitary Rangers, who answer to the Ministry of Interior and the army, launched the crackdown in 2014, targeting suspected militants and criminals.
Political activists have accused the Rangers of heavy-handed tactics, including summary executions and targeting political parties. The paramilitary force denies the charges.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The State Department on Tuesday authorized the voluntary departure of relatives of employees at the U.S. Embassy in Ankara and Consulate General in Istanbul, citing the state of emergency declared in Turkey after last month's attempted coup.
The decision means the State Department will offer free flights to those who decide to leave. The department issued a travel warning on Turkey shortly after the July 15 failed coup.
ROME (Reuters) - Pressure should be put on Turkey to make sure the rule of law is upheld there amid a fierce crackdown on suspected plotters in a failed coup, Italy's Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said on Tuesday.
Turkish special forces are hunting a group of commandos and more than 60,000 soldiers, police, judges and civil servants have been arrested, suspended or put under investigation after an attempted power grab on July 15.
At a parliamentary hearing, Gentiloni said the reaction from Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's government was disproportionate and dangerous and expressed concern about the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in Turkey.
He said he was also concerned about "violations of the rule of law which require us to exert pressure".
He did not say who should be exerting pressure, or what form it could take, but added the situation was "fluid" and it was too early to draw firm conclusions.
Italy supports having dialogue with Ankara, which struck a deal with the European Union in March to help stem the flow of migrants in return for cash, visas and renewed talks on joining the bloc.
"It is up to Turkey to decide whether to proceed on the path it has taken up again, in rather exceptional circumstances, with the EU, in the knowledge that we will not sacrifice any of the founding principles of the Union or the rule of law," Gentiloni said.
KARACHI, Pakistan (Reuters) - Pakistani authorities have arrested two men in different parts of the country for suggesting that the army seize power from the civilian government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, police said on Tuesday.
Pakistan, a nuclear-armed nation of 190 million, has been ruled by the military for almost half its history and has repeatedly swung between democracy and military rule.
Sharif was toppled in a coup in 1999 and returned to power after winning a 2013 election but his relations with the powerful military have been testy at times, and both sides are sensitive about talk of military intervention.
The arrests came after posters appeared in 13 cities seeming to invite army chief General Raheel Sharif, who is due to retire in November, to step in and rule the country.
A military spokesman disavowed the posters. General Sharif, who is no relation to the prime minister, has said he would step down as planned.
Police arrested one of the men, Muhammad Islam Khan, in the northwestern town of Bannu on Monday after he staged a poll on a street, asking people whether they were satisfied with the government or wanted the army to step in.
Bannu police chief Qasim Ali Khan told Reuters Khan had been detained and charged with a public order offence.
"We cannot allow such a sensitive exercise where you put politicians on one side and the army on the other when there is an elected political government and independent judiciary present in the country," the police chief said.
Last week, another man, Muhammad Kamran, the head of a little known party called Move on Pakistan, was arrested in the capital, Islamabad, after putting up posters suggesting the army chief seize power, a police spokeswoman said.
The spokeswoman said Kamran was being questioned.
Sharif has faced criticism over recent months, since documents released as past of the Panama Papers data leak showed his children owned several off-shore companies and used them to buy properties in London.
He denies wrongdoing, as do his children.
The criticism and occasional strains in his relations with the army have raised questions about prospects for his government.
Pakistan's next general election is due in 2018.
BEIRUT/BAGHDAD (Reuters) - At a checkpoint in central Beirut, a guard checks a small truck for explosives. He is manning the last security barrier before Lebanon's parliament building 100 metres away, and relying on a bomb detector that experts say is useless.
Holding the device, a swivelling telescopic antenna mounted on a black plastic handgrip, the plain-clothes guard walks by the side of the truck. It does not respond, and the truck is allowed to pass.
At the nearby marina where millionaires' yachts are moored by the glistening Mediterranean Sea, and at entrances to the underground parking of an upmarket shopping mall, the same bomb detectors are used.
They have been a familiar sight at checkpoints across the Middle East for about a decade, acquired for thousands of dollars apiece by authorities desperate to contain deadly waves of bomb attacks.
But the devices - which have even been sold to U.N. peacekeepers - have been condemned by forensic specialists as a dangerous waste of money, based on bogus science.
Marketed under names such as ADE651, GT200 and Alpha, they are supposed to respond to the presence of explosives, causing their metal antenna to swivel on a hinge towards the material.
Britain imposed export bans on ADE651 and GT200 detectors in 2010, warning they were fake, and the British businessmen who made millions of pounds by manufacturing and selling them around the world were subsequently sentenced to jail.
Yet is was only this month that Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi - whose country bought hundreds of ADE651 devices eight years ago - ordered his security services to stop using them, after a huge truck bomb killed 292 people in Baghdad.
And devices of a similar design were seen by Reuters correspondents being used at checkpoints in countries including Lebanon, Syria and Egypt in recent weeks or months.
Scientist Dennis McAuley said he examined a device of a similar design to the ADE651 and GT200 when he worked at Northern Ireland's Forensic Science Laboratory. He took it apart to see how it worked.
"There is no scientific basis to it. It's a complete fraud," he told Reuters. "If authorities are putting any reliance on this to detect explosives, it's ludicrous. It's unbelievable they are still using this."
In Egypt, a soldier was seen using one of the wand-like devices this month at a checkpoint in Ras Sidr, checking cars waiting to pass through a tunnel in Sinai. The equipment was used in conjunction with thorough searches of the vehicles.
Egyptian military spokesman Brigadier General Mohamed Samir said any equipment bought by Egypt "is subject to specific standards and is tested before the contracts are signed".
In the Syrian capital Damascus, frequently targeted by rebel and jihadist bombings during Syria's five-year-old conflict, guards outside a hotel and a government complex were seen carrying similar-looking devices in April.
In Beirut, where twin suicide bombings killed 44 people in November, officials declined to comment about the detectors, although guards in the city who were using them this week said they were effective. One said he discovered a concealed package in a car, but did not say whether it contained explosives.
While specific devices seen by Reuters correspondents in Lebanon, Syria and Egypt could not be individually identified, they were of a similar design to the ADE651 and GT200 detectors which Britain imposed export bans on.
Dan Kaszeta, managing director of London-based security consultancy Strongpoint Security, and a graduate of the U.S. military's Explosives Ordnance Disposal school, said no device could work based on the concept of an aerial swivelling in response to traces of explosives it detects.
"Given the state of current technology there is nothing that is in hand-held use that remotely detects explosives with any degree of accuracy or specificity. It just does not exist."
McAuley, the forensic scientist, also said any device based on the swivelling detecting antenna principle - which he compared to rods used for water divining - was fraudulent.
Some customers who bought such detectors never used them. Several years ago, peacekeepers with the United Nations' UNIFIL  mission in southern Lebanon purchased some ADE651s but quickly found they were a waste of money.
"We had purchased four of these devices and none of them were working. They were objects with no value," said UNIFIL spokesman Andrea Tenenti.
The British businessman whose company made and sold ADE651 devices, Jim McCormick, was jailed in 2013, three years after Britain banned export of the devices to Iraq or Afghanistan where its soldiers were deployed.
The judge sentencing him said his device was modelled on  "failed American manufactured golf ball detectors" and cost less than $50 to make. McCormick sold 7,000 of the devices for $2,500-$30,000 each, with one invoice showing sales worth $38 million to Iraq over a period of three years, the judge said.
The judge added McCormick's fraudulent conduct helped create a false sense of security and probably contributed to deaths of many innocent people.
The businessman behind the GT200 devices, Gary Bolton, was convicted of fraud and sentenced to jail in 2013.
Mexico bought hundreds of the devices. After Bolton's conviction, a Mexican interior ministry official said the devices were no longer in use.
In Iraq, even after Abadi's decree, the ADE651 detectors were still in evidence in Salahuddin and Diyala provinces, north of Baghdad.
One police major in Salahuddin said his force had not received written orders to stop using it. Another, in Diyala, said his men had tested the device themselves by stashing a handgun and a grenade one of their vehicles.
The device did not detect them.
Police captain Raad Shallal, manning a checkpoint near the town of Khalis in Diyala province said he knew the detector was useless.
"It serves as a scarecrow, more than a real bomb detector," he added, standing close to a colleague who was checking vehicles with one of the devices.
That theory, that they might deter bombers even if they cannot detect bombs, was lampooned on Iraqi television by satirist Ahmed al-Basheer.
"So it's a scarecrow," he said. "This is the right thing to do, use a device that the entire globe knows is not working in order to scare terrorists who live on the same globe we're on."
Basheer's programme broadcast footage from several politicians and officials defending the equipment including Nuri al-Maliki, the former prime minister whose government ordered the devices. He said the first batches worked but subsequent fake deliveries did not.
When ordering the withdrawal of the detectors on July 3, after the truck bombing, Prime Minister Abadi also announced a reopening of an investigation into the "corrupt contracts" involved in the purchase of the devices.
Iraq's judiciary spokesman, Judge Abdul Sattar al-Bayraqdar, said an Iraqi general and several officers were currently in jail, having been convicted of multiple accounts of corruption related to the import of the detectors.
GENEVA (Reuters) - U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura said on Tuesday he aimed to convene a new round of Syria peace talks towards the end of August, quietly scrapping a previous timeline while putting down a new deadline for a U.S.-Russia deal to support the talks.
De Mistura, speaking after a meeting with U.S. Syria envoy Michael Ratney and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov, said the United States and Russia both needed to do more work in the coming days.
De Mistura said the trilateral meeting in Geneva focused on the urgent need for progress on Syria's cessation of hostilities, access for humanitarian aid, counter-terrorism and political transition.
POTSDAM, Germany (Reuters) - A German man was jailed for life on Tuesday for murdering two young children last year, including a 4-year-old refugee boy whom he had kidnapped from Berlin's main migrant registration centre.
The man, identified only as Silvio S., confessed last year to abducting, sexually abusing and killing Mohamed Januzi, a Bosnian boy whose family was seeking asylum in Germany, prosecutors said.
He also admitted kidnapping a six-year-old boy called Elias near the child's home in Potsdam outside Berlin and murdering him in July 2015, the lawyers added. The disappearance of Elias had triggered widespread media attention.
The court in Potsdam said the 33-year-old had acted in a "very cruel" way towards the two children and ruled out the possibility of parole after 15 years due to the severity of the offence.
However, the judge did not order preventative detention - an indeterminate sentence handed to individuals who are considered a danger to public safety - following the recommendation of an expert who said the man did not have an inclination to commit similar crimes in the future.
Silvio S., 33, remained silent for most of the trial but expressed his remorse to the relatives of his victims in a short statement.
"There are no words in the world that could describe how sorry I am. If I could make it undone, I would. I can't even forgive myself," German media reported him as saying.
On Tuesday, he remained silent while the verdict was read, occasionally shaking his head and later crying, said Khubaib-Ali Mohammed, lawyer for the victims.
The Bosnian boy disappeared on Oct. 1 while waiting outside Berlin's central registration office for migrants with his mother and two siblings.
Silvio S. was arrested at the end of October after his own mother told police he had told her he was involved. The child's body was later found packed in cat litter in the boot of his car.
German prosecutors said the suspect had admitted to taking Mohamed to his flat and sexually abusing him. He strangled the child the following morning when he wouldn't stop crying. During questioning, Silvio S. also confessed to the murder of Elias.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet his Turkish counterpart Tayyip Erdogan next month for the first time in almost a year, a sign that a rapprochement between the two nations is gathering pace.
Russian trade sanctions imposed on Ankara over the Turkish shooting down of a Russian jet near the Syrian border last November remain in place, and Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said on Tuesday they were unlikely to be lifted before the two leaders met.
Ulyukayev was speaking as senior officials from the two nations, including Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek,  met in Moscow to lay the ground for a gradual thaw in ties.
The Kremlin and the Turkish government said Putin and Erdogan would meet on Aug. 9 in the Russian leader's home town of St. Petersburg, Russia's second-largest city.
The shooting down of the Russian fighter jet, which was taking part in the Kremlin's campaign to support Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, prompted Moscow to impose sanctions on Ankara to hurt its tourism and construction sectors.
It also banned Turkish food imports.
"The agenda has not been discussed yet ... but beyond all doubt, there is much to talk about," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters, referring to the planned Putin-Erdogan meeting.
"This will be the first meeting after that collapse in our relations, the first one after the leaders of the two nations turned over that page," Peskov said. "Therefore, it's possible to say with confidence they won't lack topics for discussion."
Erdogan faced the biggest challenge to his rule this month when he defeated a coup staged by his own military. He is now trying to consolidate his power by purging the army and security structures.
Turkey has thanked Russia for its solid support of its legitimate government during the abortive putsch.
Mehmet Simsek, Turkey's deputy prime minister, said his visit and that of other officials was part of an ongoing attempt to try to mend ties with Moscow.
"We are here to improve our relations and to bring them to an even higher level than before Nov. 24," Simsek said at the start of a meeting on Tuesday with his Russian counterpart Arkady Dvorkovich.
Russian and Turkish officials discussed the possible lifting of the food import ban, Dvorkovich told reporters. Officials would later also discuss whether it was realistic to restart the shelved TurkStream project, which aims to build a natural gas pipeline from Russia to Turkey.
Dvorkovich said the resumption of charter flights between the two countries "will take some time".
He said construction of the planned Akkuyu nuclear power plant project in Turkey was also on the agenda.
"We plan to be able to move forward pretty fast," he said, giving no further details.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A political decision has been taken to continue work on the TurkStream natural gas pipeline project and the Akkuyu nuclear power plant in Turkey, Russian news agencies cited Turkish Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci as saying on Tuesday.
A meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Turkish counterpart Tayyip Erdogan, due to take place in St. Petersburg on Aug. 9, is set "to give the final impetus" to TurkStream, Zeybekci said during a visit to Moscow.
PARIS (Reuters) - French police have arrested one person in connection with the knife attack in a church in northern France, a source close to the inquiry said on Tuesday.
Earlier police shot dead two assailants who had taken hostages in the Normandy town of Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray and killed a priest and seriously wounded another hostage.
President Francois Hollande said the two attackers had pledged allegiance to militant group Islamic State.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Iran on Tuesday said it was not aware of the presence of three al Qaeda operatives who the U.S. Treasury alleged last week to be living in the country.
Last Wednesday the U.S. Treasury said it was blacklisting a Saudi, an Egyptian and an Algerian who it said were members of al Qaeda living in Iran.
Their activities included liaising between the Pakistani Taliban and al Qaeda, and sending funds to al Qaeda fighters in Syria, the Treasury said.
"The Islamic Republic of Iran has no information about the presence of these people on its own soil," foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi was cited as saying by the Iranian Students' News Agency (ISNA).
Iran has held several al Qaeda members, both high-ranking and lower-level, since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington, although U.S. officials say the precise conditions of their confinement are unclear.
Iran, a Shi'ite Muslim theocracy, considers al Qaeda a terrorist group and Iranian security forces periodically report the arrest of al Qaeda members.
Senior U.S. officials have previously accused Iran of cooperating with the group, but Tehran denies this. The hardline Sunni Islamist group considers Shi'ites to be heretics and has targeted them in the past.
The U.S. blacklisting freezes any property of the three men in the United States, and bars U.S. citizens from dealing with them.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The Vatican and the Bank of Italy on Tuesday signed a key cooperation agreement aimed at regularising their relations and ending years of Italian mistrust over Holy See finances.
The accord, signed by BOI Governor Ignacio Visco and the Vatican's top financial regulator, Rene Bruelhart, comes after years of financial reforms, most of them under Pope Francis, to bring the Vatican and its troubled bank up to international standards to guarantee transparency and combat money laundering.
A joint statement said the agreement, which the Vatican had lobbied hard to win, "aimed at enhancing the exchange of information in the field of financial supervision, on the basis of reciprocity".
It "allows the authorities to broaden the channels of information" in order to monitor transactions between Italian financial entities and the Vatican, a sovereign state in the middle of Rome whose financial activities the BOI has for decades viewed with suspicion.
"This effectively normalises relations," Bruelhart told Reuters in a telephone interview.
In 2010, Italian banks stopped dealing with the Vatican bank, officially known as the Institute for Works of Religion (IOR), after the BOI told them they had to enforce strict anti-money laundering criteria.
That year, Rome magistrates investigating possible money laundering froze 23 million euros ($31.15 million) held by the IOR in two Italian banks. The IOR said it had merely been transferring its own funds between accounts in other countries.     The money was later returned.
In 2012, Italy blocked the use of debit and credit cards in the Vatican because of concerns over lack of transparency, which was a major obstacle to one of the tiny city state's biggest sources of income from tourists visiting the Vatican museums.
In recent years, relations between Italian and Vatican financial authorities have been improving.
In 2013 the BOI's Financial Intelligence Unit signed an accord with its Vatican counterpart and a separate financial information sharing agreement with Italian tax authorities in which the Holy See pledged full cooperation and transparency.
The Vatican had long been criticised by financial organisations for providing a tax haven for well-connected Italians by allowing them to hold secret bank accounts.
Pope Francis has made financial reform a central plank of his papacy. Under his watch the IOR has closed thousands of accounts in the past few years and he has also greatly increased the power and independence of the Vatican's financial intelligence unit.
Last December, the European financial crimes watchdog Moneyval, which had previously criticised the Vatican, issued an overwhelmingly positive report, saying it had made great strides in cleaning up its scandal-plagued bank and other financial departments.
But the report also said the Vatican's judiciary should be much more aggressive in dealing with people suspected of financial crimes like money laundering and step up prosecutions and indictments.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande said on Tuesday two hostage takers who killed a priest in a church in Normandy, northern France, were terrorists who had pledged allegiance to Islamic State.
"Daesh has declared war on us, we must fight this war by all means, while respecting the rule of law, what makes us a democracy," he told reporters at the scene in Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, south of Rouen, using an Arab acronym for the Islamist extremist group.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A patient shot at a doctor in a university clinic in Steglitz, a southwestern district of Berlin, on Tuesday before shooting himself, German police confirmed after Bild newspaper earlier reported the incident.
Police said the doctor was badly hurt.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Two men who held senior positions at Hong Kong political magazines were jailed in China on Tuesday for illegal business operations, bribery and bid-rigging, a lawyer said.
Their sentences come after five Hong Kong booksellers from a shop that specialised in gossipy books about China's leaders went missing and later appeared in mainland Chinese custody, raising concern about free speech in the city.
On Tuesday, the Shenzhen Nanshan District Court sentenced Wang Jianmin, 63, to five years and three months in jail and Guo Zhongxiao, 41, to two years and three months, Wang's lawyer, Chen Nansha, said.
The court published brief details of the verdict on its  website in line with Chen's account.
The men worked for the political magazines New-Way Monthly and Multiple Face. Wang was a magazine founder and Guo a chief editor.
Wang has a U.S. passport and a Hong Kong identity card, according to his lawyer.
It was not immediately clear what passport Guo had but he was born in mainland China and also had a Hong Kong identity card, the lawyer said.
Both were arrested in mainland China in May 2014.
Chen declined to say whether he believed the case was political.
The Shenzhen Nanshan District Court, district government and foreign affairs office did not immediately respond to a request comment. The Hong Kong police said arrests in mainland China were outside of their jurisdiction.
Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China. It has greater freedoms and separate laws from the mainland under a "one country, two systems" framework agreed with the British when they handed back their former colony in 1997.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's ruling Communist Party will hold a crucial meeting in October to map out and revise rules for internal party discipline, state media said on Tuesday, as President Xi Jinping continues to press home a battle on deep-seated graft.
Xi has waged an ambitious campaign against corruption since assuming power almost four years ago, in which dozens of senior officials have been jailed, including the powerful former domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang.
Tuesday's decision followed a meeting of the Politburo, one of the party's elite ruling bodies, chaired by Xi, the Xinhua news agency said.
"In the new situation, generally intra-party political life is good, but for some time now there have appeared some outstanding issues," it said, without identifying the issues.
Xinhua gave no details of what the revised rules for supervision in the party would entail, but cited speakers at the Politburo meeting as saying the time had come to alter them.
Meetings such as the one planned for October are formally called plenums, are typically held annually as the party's most important event of the year and tend to map out major policies for the years ahead.
The October gathering is likely to be the final plenum before the party holds its five-yearly congress, expected some time in the autumn of 2017, where Xi will cement his power and possibly anoint a successor.
The last plenum before the party congress is typically used to discuss ideological issues, and other plenums under Xi have focused on economic matters and the rule of law.
At last year's plenum the party announced a landmark easing of family planning restrictions, to allow all couples to have two children, after decades of a strict one-child policy.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Just weeks ago, Commander Adem Huduti was inspecting Turkish troops on the Syrian border and being praised in the media for his role in the fight against Islamic State and Kurdish militants.
Now, the head of Turkey's second army, responsible for its borders with Syria and Iraq, is in prison in Duzce, some 216 km (134 miles) east of Istanbul, the most senior serving general arrested for suspected involvement in a failed military coup.
At least 246 people were killed and more than 2,000 injured on the night of July 15, when a faction within the army used fighter jets, helicopters and tanks to try to seize airports and bridges, attacking buildings including parliament and the intelligence headquarters in a bid to seize power.
The plot crumbled quickly. But it exposed and exacerbated divisions within the second largest military in the NATO alliance, raising questions about its ability to contain a growing threat from Islamic State in neighboring Syria and a renewed insurgency by Kurdish militants.
"The Turkish military is now a broken force and it will take years for it to heal," said Aaron Stein, resident fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic Council, whose research focuses on Turkey and regional security.
"The plot extends beyond a rogue faction ... Beyond the loss of Huduti, the entire security apparatus now has another threat to focus on, in addition to Islamic State and the on-going insurgency in the southeast."
Huduti is one of around a third of Turkey's roughly 360 generals to have been detained since the abortive coup, more than 100 of them already charged pending trial. Authorities have also launched mass purges of state institutions, from the police and judiciary to academia and the civil service.
Huduti has denied being involved in the plot. In eight pages of testimony published by the Hurriyet newspaper, he said armed coup plotters tried to force him to join them but he refused, ordering his men to stay in their barracks.
Huduti was "an experienced commander in border security and regions of crisis", the Haberturk newspaper said last December. The pro-government Sabah daily in March hailed him as "the commander who has cleansed Cizre and Sur," two southeastern areas that saw the heaviest clashes with Kurdish militants.
Guilty or not, the coup plot and the detention of thousands of soldiers have shaken the armed forces in a country where the military long saw itself as the ultimate guardian of secular democracy, and where there had not been a violent military coup for more than 30 years.
"What we have seen in the last few days is the start of a process which will have an impact on Turkey and its armed forces for the next 20-30 years. It is monumental," said Gareth Jenkins, an Istanbul-based writer on Turkey's military.
"We will see a very highly politicized military now, just as the civil service has become. Dismissals and detentions have a knock-on effect on the whole chain of command ... The inevitable loss of trust has a big impact on operational capabilities."
Former NATO Supreme Commander James Stravridis said the fallout from the coup attempt would have a “chilling effect” on Turkey’s military readiness.
"There will be a strong negative impact on the ability of the Turkish military to perform its duties across the spectrum of alliance activities," he wrote in the latest issue of Foreign Policy magazine.
"Unfortunately, it is likely that the military in the wake of the coup will be laser-focused on internal controversy, endless investigations, and loyalty checks — and simply surviving as an institution."
In an interview with Reuters on Thursday, President Tayyip Erdogan acknowledged there had been intelligence failures and said the armed forces would now have to be restructured quickly to bring in "fresh blood".
The Supreme Military Council (YAS), the highest body responsible for appointments in the armed forces, will meet under Erdogan's supervision on July 28. There are likely to be significant personnel changes.
Akin Ozturk, head of the air force until 2015 and a member of YAS, was one of the masterminds of the plot, Turkish officials have said. Erdogan's aide-de-camp is also among those to have been detained.
At least a quarter of the generals who have been formally arrested are from the air force, a part of the military crucial not only in the fight against Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants in Turkey's southeast, but also in the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State.
Erdogan has blamed the coup plot on U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, an ally-turned-foe whose network of millions of followers have built influence over decades in the military,  police, judiciary and parts of the state bureaucracy.
Erdogan's critics say he and the Islamist-rooted AK Party he founded allowed Gulen's followers to rise to key positions within the state apparatus to help curb the power of the military, which had ousted four governments since 1960 for posing what it saw as an Islamist threat to the secular order.
Critics say it was mainly Gulenist prosecutors who, around the time in 2008 when Erdogan's AK Party narrowly escaped being banned, built two big conspiracy trials targeting the upper echelons of the army. Hundreds of officers were jailed.
It later became clear, after many charges were dismissed, that bogus evidence had been used in the two cases, known as "Ergenekon" and "Sledgehammer". Those jailed were released, but several former senior officers said the cases weakened the armed forces and helped the Gulenists to rise through the ranks.
"We knew there was a Gulenist structure within the army, I knew some of them by name. But now I realize the situation was more grave than I thought," said Ahmet Yavuz, 61, a retired major general who was jailed in the Sledgehammer trial.
"The government and those who ran the armed forces ignored our warnings. They ruined the genetic makeup of the army and this created a space for the Gulenists to move within the army as they pleased," he told Reuters.
Gulen, now 75 and living in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania since 1999, denies any involvement in the failed coup. Turkey wants him extradited but the United States says it must first provide firm evidence of criminal wrongdoing.
Echoing Yavuz's comments, Mehmet Ali Celebi, a former army lieutenant also jailed over the Sledgehammer case, said many officers were angry that their warnings about the Gulenists' deepening grip in the military had been ignored.
"Nobody listened to us. It is now clear that those who accused us (in the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon trials) of plotting coups were the real plotters," he said.
The shake-up in the security apparatus is likely to see an increased role for police special forces, who have already taken on a more significant presence in and around Erdogan's presidential palace in Ankara.
The military presidential guard will be abolished, while the gendarmerie and coast guard will fully come under the authority of the Interior Ministry, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said.
Turkey has suffered bomb attacks this year, including in Ankara and its biggest city Istanbul, some blamed on Islamic State, others claimed by Kurdish militants.
A triple suicide bombing and gun attack blamed on Islamic State killed 45 people and wounded more than 200 last month at Istanbul's main international airport.
"Turkey faces remarkable security concerns: the conflict with the PKK, Islamic State and other jihadis and now the danger of remnants from the coup itself," said Howard Eissenstat, a Turkey expert at St. Lawrence University in New York.
"The government really has no choice but to engage in broad purges of the military: it can't afford the possibility of "dead enders" remaining within its ranks. Rebuilding these forces will take a few years, but rebuilding the structures and trust will take even longer," he said.
Two senior Turkish officials said that while the priority was to cleanse the whole security apparatus of coup plotters, there was no risk to national security and that replacements were already being put in place for those detained.
But a third official was more cautious.
"The police headquarters is missing its front and back sides," he said, referring to one of the buildings bombed by the coup plotters during the events of July 15.
"There is not even a stable building. Will there be a security problem under these conditions...? You tell me."
KABUL (Reuters) - Islamic State is threatening more attacks against Afghanistan's Hazara minority after Saturday's suicide blasts in Kabul that killed 80 people, pledging to retaliate against support by some in the mainly Shi'ite group for the Assad regime in Syria.
But assessing the threat from Daesh, as Islamic State is known in Afghanistan, is difficult.
Some question whether it was really responsible for Saturday's blasts and some officials ask whether the ultra-radical Sunni movement, hitherto largely confined to an area near the border with Pakistan, poses a wider challenge.
A Daesh commander who uses the name Abu Omar Khorasani said the bombing of the rally by thousands of Hazaras protesting about the route of a new power line was in retaliation for the support offered by some members of the community to the regime in Syria.
Many Hazaras have gone through Shi'ite-governed Iran to fight for the government of President Bashar al-Assad, a fellow Shi'ite, against Islamic State.
"Unless they stop going to Syria and stop being slaves of Iran, we will definitely continue such attacks," the militant commander told Reuters by telephone from an undisclosed location.
"We can and we will strike them again."
The government says it has been hitting Daesh hard even before Saturday's blasts, one of the most deadly attacks in the country since the beginning of the Taliban insurgency in 2001.
It said government forces had killed hundreds of insurgents in the past two months in assaults on Daesh strongholds in the eastern province of Nangarhar, which straddles the highway from Kabul to the Pakistani city of Peshawar.
In the latest fighting, at least 122 insurgents were killed in the past 24 hours, it said on Tuesday. The numbers could not be independently confirmed.
Nevertheless, Saturday's attack on the Hazara minority adds a dangerous complication to the war the Western-backed government in Kabul has been fighting with Taliban insurgents.
As well as the risk of dragging Afghanistan into Islamic State's wider campaign in the Middle East, it raised the spectre of sectarian violence, something Afghanistan, a majority Sunni country, has largely been spared during decades of war.
But while seeing the threat, officials are cautious about whether the attack represents a real turning point for Daesh, which has been under heavy pressure this year from both U.S. air strikes and Afghan ground forces.
"Having a couple of people that you've hired put on a suicide vest and sneak into a crowd of many thousands really is not that sophisticated," said U.S. military spokesman Brigadier General Charles Cleveland.
On the ground, the NATO-led force advising government troops estimates the number of Daesh fighters at between 1,000 and 3,000, many of them former members of militant groups like the Pakistani Taliban, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and the Afghan Taliban.
Many of the Daesh fighters operating in Afghanistan are from the Orakzai tribe on the Pakistani side of the border. Those militants have also been hit hard by the Pakistani military, according to an Afghan security report seen by Reuters.
While the movement may have been limited to eastern Afghanistan, that need not stop it from seeking to spread violence and raise its profile with more attacks on civilian targets, officials said.
"That's our concern, these high profile attacks, they are effective because they're not that difficult to achieve," Cleveland told reporters in Kabul.
The Hazara, who have long suffered violence and discrimination in Afghanistan, have responded with fury to the attack, accusing the government of inaction or worse. Some even doubt Islamic State's claim of responsibility.
"There is no evidence to prove Daesh's involvement. It could have been others," said Dawood Naji, one of the organisers of Saturday's rally.
"I don’t think Daesh would be a major concern for Afghan people because they are not very active and have no foothold."
With President Ashraf Ghani's unwieldy national unity government riven by infighting, their anger adds an unpredictable new threat of political instability.
Government and NATO force officials insist, however, that Islamic State is being hit hard.
The Afghan army has launched its first major offensive since the holy month of Ramadan in Nangarhar.
According to the interior ministry, 654 Daesh and Taliban fighters, including several senior commanders have been killed in Nangarhar in the last two months.
On Monday, Afghan special forces killed Sahad Emarati, a senior Daesh commander and destroyed training camps during a firefight in the province, said Attahullah Khogyani, a spokesman for Nangarhar's governor.
"We think that Daesh is under pressure," Cleveland said. "As their terrain gets restricted, you see them trying to conduct more external operations and attacks."
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's embargo on Turkish food imports is unlikely to be lifted before Russian President Vladimir Putin's meeting with his Turkish counterpart Tayyip Erdogan in St. Petersburg on Aug. 9, Russian Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said on Tuesday.
PRISTINA (Reuters) - Turkey's embassy in Kosovo has urged the government to take action against a journalist over tongue-in-cheek Facebook comments he made about the failed military coup in Turkey, a document seen by Reuters showed on Tuesday.
As the failed coup unfolded on July 15, Berat Buzhala, a leading Kosovo journalist known for his satirical comments, wrote on Facebook:
"I invite the citizens of the Republic of Kosovo who are  holidaying in Turkey to align with the army." The comment was signed with an Internet emoticon with a tongue protruding, indicating the comment was not serious.
"This is the most serious coup since the arrival of Facebook," Buzhala said.
Turkey is a major supporter of Kosovo which declared independence from Serbia in 2008. Its companies run the sole airport, own electricity distribution and are building two highways worth around $2 billion.
Buzhala has over 40,000 Facebook followers. His news portal gazetaexpress.com, which is the biggest in Kosovo with around one million readers per day, has been critical of Kosovans who have gone to fight for Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.
On July 20, the Turkish Embassy in Pristina sent a note to Kosovo's foreign ministry urging it to take action over the journalist's comments.
"(The ministry should) ensure that necessary steps will be taken about this person in accordance with the law," said the note which was accompanied by screen shots of Buzhala's Facebook comments.
The embassy note, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, also quoted a newly-adopted Kosovo law which prohibits citizens from joining armed conflicts outside the country.
In the note the embassy also said the law stipulated that comments by people such as Buzhala "shall be sentenced to jail terms from six months to five years."
Some Balkan countries have faced pressure from Ankara to close private schools linked with Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based Muslim cleric accused by Ankara of orchestrating the July 15 coup attempt.
Kosovo says that up to now it has not received any such request from Ankara. Local media quoted Education Minister Arsim Bajrami last week as saying Kosovo had no plans to close down its Gulen-linked schools.
It remained unclear what steps the Kosovo authorities would take over the Turkish diplomatic note. Foreign ministry officials in Pristina declined to comment.
Buzhala said he had not been informed about the embassy's note but he saw an online campaign against him by Islamist websites demanding his arrest.
"This demonstrates the arrogance of the Turkish government towards small countries like Kosovo, wanting to push them into political and judicial submission, in addition to economic submission," Buzhala said.
    "It is unimaginable that a foreign government makes such a request because of some satirical comments."
In Bosnia, where Gulen-sponsored schools have opened since the war of the 1990s, Turkish Ambassador Cihad Erginay last week called on officials and parents to act against the schools which he branded as "terrorist organizations".
Bosnian officials have not reacted yet. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan was reported to have asked for Gulen's schools to be shut when he visited Sarajevo last year.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia will execute several people including a Pakistani on Friday, a Pakistani embassy official said, its first executions since last year when it put to death 14 people, most of them foreign drug convicts, sparking an international outcry.
Indonesian officials have said 16 people will be executed this year, including citizens of Nigeria, Zimbabwe and Pakistan, though they have not confirmed any more details.
Syed Zahid Raza, charge d'affaires at the Pakistani embassy in Jakarta, said the embassy had been informed about the imminent execution of the Pakistani, Zulfikar Ali, convicted of smuggling drugs.
"We were invited to meet with officials from the attorney general's office today who told us the executions will take place on Friday," Raza told Reuters on Tuesday.
A spokesman for the attorney general's office declined to comment on any time frame.
Pakistan on Monday urged Indonesia to stay Ali's execution, citing concern that his 2005 trial had been unfair.
Ali will make a last-ditch attempt to escape the death penalty by appealing directly to Indonesian President Joko Widodo for clemency, Raza said.
Indonesia says it is facing a "drugs emergency" and has vowed no mercy for traffickers. Its executions by firing squad have caused outrage overseas though surveys show Indonesians are largely in favour of capital punishment.
Last year, Australia recalled its envoy to Jakarta, and Brazil said it was shocked and was evaluating ties after their citizens were executed.
But President Widodo has disregarded diplomatic pressure and vowed to ramp up a war on drugs in what is among Southeast Asia's biggest markets for narcotics.
The executions will take place at a maximum security prison on Nusakambangan Island in Central Java but it is not clear how many prisoners will face the firing squad this week.
Authorities have not given a breakdown of the numbers of foreigners on death row but citizens of France, Britain and the Philippines are known to be among them.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian and Turkish officials will discuss the lifting of a food imports ban that Russia imposed after one of its bombers was downed by Turkey near the Syrian border last November, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said on Tuesday.
He also said the two countries would review the resumption of the TurkStream gas pipeline project later on Tuesday.
Dvorkovich added the resumption of charter flights between the two countries "will take some time".
SYDNEY (Reuters) - An earthquake measuring magnitude 6.0 struck about 73 km (45 miles) southeast of the tiny Pacific island nation of Vanuatu on Tuesday, the United States Geological Survey reported.
The shallow temblor, which struck at a depth of just 10 kilometers, did not trigger a tsunami warning, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre. There were no immediate reports of damage.
The magnitude was later revised to 5.8.
BEIJING (Reuters) - More than 800 people have died and about 200 are missing in a series of natural disasters that have struck China since June, the worst casualty figures since a similar period in 2011, state media said on Tuesday.
Large parts of central, eastern and northern China have been hit by flooding this summer, while a typhoon left a wave of destruction this month and a freak tornado killed at least 98 in the eastern province of Jiangsu in June.
Since the year began, 1,074 people have died in natural disasters, 833 of them since June, with 270 missing, Xinhua news agency cited the Ministry of Civil Affairs as saying.
Direct economic losses have reached 298 billion yuan (34 billion pounds) this year, with about 400,000 houses destroyed and 6.24 million residents relocated, the ministry added.
Separately, the government on the southern island province of Hainan issued a typhoon warning for a tropical storm that is expected to hit in the early hours of Wednesday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - If the Russian government is behind the theft and release of embarrassing emails from the Democratic Party, as U.S. officials have suggested, it may reflect less a love of Donald Trump or enmity for Hillary Clinton than a desire to discredit the U.S. political system.
A U.S. official who is taking part in the investigation said that intelligence collected on the hacking of Democratic National Committee (DNC) emails released by Wikileaks on Friday "indicates beyond a reasonable doubt that it originated in Russia."
The timing on the eve of Clinton's formal nomination this week for the Nov. 8 presidential election has raised questions about whether Russia may have been trying to hurt her, to help Trump, her Republican rival, or to fan populist sentiment against establishment politicians as it has sought to do across Europe in recent years.
“Certainly Russia has become a master at manipulating information for their strategic goals: Witness the information bubble they have created for their threatening behaviour in the Crimea, the Ukraine and elsewhere," said former CIA and National Security Agency director Michael Hayden. "A step like this, however, would be really upping their game."
The emails showed that DNC officials explored ways to undermine U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign against Clinton and raised questions about whether Sanders, who is Jewish, was really an atheist.
The disclosures confirmed Sanders' frequent charge that the party played favourites against him and clouded a party convention Clinton hoped would signal unity, not division.
Two U.S. intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the hack could be part of a broader campaign by Russian President Vladimir Putin to push back against what he thinks is an effort by the European Union and NATO, a military alliance of European and North American democracies, to encircle and weaken Russia.
One of the officials called the fear "a hangover" from Putin's service in the KGB, the Soviet intelligence agency.
"Time and again, we're seeing Russia push back at what Putin considers Russia's mortal enemies," said the other official. "He's been actively attacking the U.S.-backed rebels in Syria, buzzing ships and planes in the Black Sea and the Baltic, not to mention invading Ukraine and seizing Crimea. This fits the pattern."
Despite Clinton's short-lived attempt as secretary of state to "reset" U.S.-Russian relations after U.S. President Barack Obama took office in 2009, the leaked emails could damage a candidate the Kremlin may consider hostile and benefit her opponent, who has been friendlier.
Putin accused Clinton of stirring up protests against his rule after a December 2011 Russian parliamentary election that was marred by allegations of fraud, saying she had encouraged "mercenary" Kremlin foes by criticizing the vote.
"She set the tone for some opposition activists, gave them a signal, they heard this signal and started active work," Putin told supporters.
Asked about claims that Russian intelligence had hacked the DNC to obtain the emails, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange told NBC News' Richard Engel "there is no proof of that whatsoever" and said "this is a diversion" pushed by the Clinton campaign.
TRUMP'S WARMER TONEAnalysts said Russia's goal may be much broader than simply meddling in the U.S. presidential election.
"It’s a gross oversimplification to suggest that the Russian government is all-in for Donald Trump," said Andrew Weiss, a Russia analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a Washington-based think tank.
"It's in Russia's interest ... to portray the United States as riven with popular discontent, xenophobia and high-level political corruption," Weiss said. "It fits nicely with the Kremlin's standard narrative ... that the White House rushes to criticize others without getting its own house in order."
The Russian leader may well have been encouraged by Trump's comments to The New York Times last week that with him in the White House, NATO might not automatically defend the Baltic states that were once a part of the Russian-led Soviet Union.
    Despite public Trump-Putin exchanges of praise, Eugene Rumer, a former national intelligence officer for Russia and Eurasia, warned against reaching any quick conclusions about Putin's view of Trump.
    "We can say with some degree of confidence that they don’t like Hillary,” Rumer said. “It’s less clear that they like Trump, although over the years the Russians have said they prefer to deal with the Republicans – (that) they are kind of hard-line but they can do deals."
A diplomat with experience working on Russia said the Kremlin also might be betting that Clinton will win and is sending a shot across her bow.
    “Messing with her like this now puts her on notice that these are tough guys that she’s got to be really careful with,” said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
A U.S. intelligence official who is reviewing the emails as part of the investigation into their origin said that those emails describing the privileges the Democratic National Committee showers on its wealthiest donors bolster the Russian narrative of an American political system rigged by the wealthy and riddled with corruption.
"In addition to countering the U.S. narrative that the Russian government is a corrupt oligarchy, leaking these emails fits rather conveniently with Trump's charges about a rigged system and 'crooked Hillary'," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss domestic politics.
ABU DHABI (Reuters) - A solar-powered aircraft successfully completed the first fuel-free flight around the world on Tuesday, returning to Abu Dhabi after an epic 16-month voyage that demonstrated the potential of renewable energy.
The plane, Solar Impulse 2, touched down in the United Arab Emirates capital at 0005 GMT (0405 local time) on Tuesday.
It first took off from Abu Dhabi on March 9, 2015, beginning a journey of about 40,000 km (24,500 miles) and nearly 500 hours of flying time.
Bertrand Piccard and Andre Borschberg, the Swiss founders of the project, took turns piloting the aircraft, which has a wingspan larger than a Boeing 747 but weighs no more than an average family car.
"More than an achievement in the history of aviation, Solar Impulse has made history in energy," Piccard, who piloted the plane on the last leg, told a large crowd on landing.
"I’m sure that within the next 10 years we’ll see electric airplanes carrying 50 passengers on short- to medium-haul flights," he said in a statement.
He said the technologies used on Solar Impulse 2 could be used on the ground in daily life to halve emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.
The propeller-driven aircraft's four engines are powered by energy collected from more than 17,000 solar cells built in the wings. Excess energy is stored in batteries.
Unfavorable weather at times hindered smooth flying, causing the plane to be grounded for months in some countries. In all, the plane had 16 stopovers.
The pilots also had to demonstrate the mental stamina required to tackle vast distances alone at a cruising speed of no more than 90 km (56 miles) per hour and altitudes of up to 9,000 meters (29,500 feet).
"We were facing the oceans... We had to build up this mindset, not just the plane and technology," Piccard told reporters.
For the two pilots, landing back where they started is only "the beginning of the continuation" of a longer journey, said Piccard, who in 1999 became the first person to circumnavigate the globe non-stop in a hot air balloon.
Aside from continuing to promote renewable energy, they plan to launch an international council to advise governments and develop new applications for clean energy technology.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the treatment of children in detention after the airing of video showing prison guards teargassing teenage inmates and strapping a half-naked, hooded-boy to a chair.
Footage of the abuse of six aboriginal boys in a juvenile detention centre sparked renewed criticism of Australia's treatment of Aborigines and their high imprisonment rate.
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) aired CCTV footage late Monday of boys in a Northern Territory juvenile detention centre also being stripped naked, thrown by the neck into a cell, and held for long periods in solitary confinement.
"Like all Australians, I've been deeply shocked – shocked and appalled by the images of mistreatment of children," Turnbull said on ABC radio as he announced a Royal Commission, Australia's most powerful, state sanctioned inquiry.
The CCTV footage from the Don Dale Youth Detention Centre in Darwin was shot between 2010-2014. A lawyer representing two of the boys said all six boys abused were of aboriginal descent. Aborigines make up the majority of the Northern Territory population and 94 percent of juvenile inmates in the territory.
“Our (indigenous) people have known about things like this...and to just see it laid bare in front of us last night must be a wake-up call to everyone in Australia – that something’s got to be done about the way we lock our people up in this country, and particularly the way we lock our kids up," an emotional Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Justice Commissioner Mick Gooda told reporters.
“What we saw last night is an absolute disgrace.”
A report into some of the incidents by the Northern Territory Children's Commissioner in 2015 found fault with the guards' behaviour, but the findings were disputed by the then head of prisons and not acted upon, said the ABC.
Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles sacked his corrections minister within hours of the broadcast and said that information about the abuse had been withheld from him, blaming a "culture of cover-up" within the Corrections system.
Some Aborigines in the territory called for Giles to be removed, with one wearing a hood over their head with the words "Sack Giles". A coalition of Northern Territory Aboriginal organisations called for the national government to dissolve the territory government, which it has the authority to do.
"Any government that enacts policies designed to harm children and enables a culture of brutalisation and cover-ups, surrenders its right to govern," said spokesman John Paterson.
Residents in Alice Springs staged a peaceful protest against the abuse of children in detention, while the ABC reported that at least eight people were protesting on the roof of a prison in the town. Reuters could not confirm the prison protest.
The CCTV video showed guards mocking inmates, carrying a boy by the neck and throwing him onto a mattress in a cell, and covering a teenager's head with a hood and shackling him to a chair with neck, arm, leg and foot restraints.
"Excessive use of force, isolation and shackling of children is barbaric and inhumane," said Human Rights Watch Australia Director Elaine Pearson.
The ABC reported that only two detention staff members identified in footage remained within the youth justice system.
Lawyer Peter O'Brien, who represents Dylan Voller and Jake Roper who were abused, said he was suing the state on their behalf, alleging assault, battery and false imprisonment.
"It seems as if this abuse is built into the very core of the system," he said in a statement, calling for the immediate release of Voller, who is now in an adult prison, and all children imprisoned in the Northern Territory.
Australia's Human Rights Commission president Gillian Triggs, who backed the inquiry, said: "We have been reporting on this question of indigenous incarceration, particularly of juveniles, for many, many years and we have had many, many reports...on the appalling conditions in which they are held."
Aborigines comprise just three percent of Australia's population but make up 27 percent of those in prison.
PARIS (Reuters) - Two more people have been arrested in connection with the Nice attacker who killed 84 people in the French Riviera city of Nice on July 14, sources close to the investigation told Reuters on Tuesday.
Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said last week the  Bastille Day attacker, Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, had been planning the attack for months. Five suspected accomplices already in custody have been put under formal investigation.
None of the five had been known to intelligence services.
The source said the new arrests took place on Monday in Nice.
A second source said the two arrested were men and that their pictures had been found on Bouhlel's mobile telephone.
In an attack claimed by Islamic State, the 31-year-old Tunisian ploughed his hire truck into a crowd of revellers along Nice's palm-fringed Promenade des Anglais.
The militant group called Bouhlel one of its soldiers, but authorities say they have yet to find evidence that the 31-year-old, who was shot dead by police, had any actual links to the militant group.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Two Turkish generals based in Afghanistan have been detained by authorities in Dubai following a failed coup in Turkey, CNN Turk television reported on Tuesday, citing diplomatic sources.
It identified the men as Major-General Cahit Bakir, a commander of Turkish forces serving in the international NATO-led security force in Afghanistan, and Brigadier Sener Topuc, who oversees education and aid in the country.
At least 246 people were killed on the night of July 15, when a faction within the army used fighter jets, helicopters and tanks to try to seize airports and attacked buildings, including parliament, in a bid to overthrow the government.
The generals were brought to Turkey on Tuesday morning, CNN Turk said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A Syrian man who injured 15 people when he blew himself up in southern Germany - an attack claimed by Islamic State - called in a video for further attacks, U.S. monitoring group SITE reported, citing Islamic State's Amaq news agency.
The attack that took place on Sunday outside a music festival in Ansbach, a town of 40,000 people southwest of Nuremberg, was the fourth act of violence by men of Middle Eastern or Asian origin against German civilians in a week.
Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann said on Monday that a video had been found on the bomber's mobile phone in which he pledged allegiance to Islamic State.
SITE quoted the man in the video saying he was on a "martyrdom-seeking operation" in Ansbach, and calling for more attacks.
He said the attack in Ansbach was in response to "crimes committed by the Coalition in collaboration with Germany by bombing and killing men, women, and children".
In December the German parliament approved plans to join the military campaign against Islamic State in Syria in a mission that includes sending reconnaissance jets, a frigate, refuelling aircraft and military personnel. But Germany has not joined countries like Britain, France, the United States and Russia in conducting airstrikes.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian government air strikes overnight put four hospitals in Aleppo province out of action, the British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on Sunday.
They included three hospitals in Aleppo city, which is divided between government and rebel control, and one in Aleppo's western countryside, the Observatory said. It did not immediately report casualties. The strikes hit near the hospitals, it said.
Many hospitals have been hit or damaged during the five-year conflict. In April, an air strike on a hospital in rebel-held Aleppo killed dozens of people. Rebel rockets hit a hospital on the government side of the city a few days later.
MUNICH (Reuters) - A German-Iranian teenager who shot dead nine people in Munich was a deranged lone gunman obsessed with mass killings who drew no inspiration from Islamist militancy, police said on Saturday.
The 18-year-old, born and raised locally, opened fire near a busy shopping mall on Friday evening, triggering a lockdown in the Bavarian state capital.
Seven of his victims were themselves teenagers, who police said he may have lured to their deaths via a hacked Facebook account on what was the fifth anniversary of twin attacks by Norwegian mass murderer Anders Breivik that killed 77 people.
The Munich shooting, in which a further 27 people were wounded, some seriously, was the third act of violence against civilians in Western Europe - and the second in southern Germany - in eight days.
Bavarian state crime office president Robert Heimberger said the gunman, who German media named as Ali David Sonboly, was carrying more than 300 bullets in his backpack and pistol when he shot himself.
Munich police witnessed the suicide at 8:30 p.m. local time (1830 GMT), the police force said on Saturday.
Following a police search of the attacker's room, where a book on teenage shooting sprees was discovered, Munich police chief Hubertus Andrae all but ruled out an Islamist militant link to the attack.
"Based on the searches, there are no indications whatsoever that there is a connection to Islamic State" or to the issue of refugees, he told a news conference.
"Documents on shooting sprees were found, so the perpetrator obviously researched this subject intensively."
The gunman was born and brought up in the Munich area and had spent time in psychiatric care, and there was no evidence to suggest he had had an accomplice, Andrae said.
Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said it was also too early to associate the Munich shootings with Breivik, who in 2011 shot dead 69 attendees at a youth summer camp hours after murdering eight others by detonating a van bomb in Oslo.
But he told German public television the government would look carefully at its security measures once the investigation was completed to see if any changes were needed.
De Maiziere said a unit of federal police had been readied on Friday given initial indications of a possible large militant attack, but in the end it was not used.
Robert Heimberger, president of the Bavarian state criminal agency, told the news conference police were investigating findings suggesting the Munich gunman invited people to a fast food restaurant at the mall via the Facebook account.
"(He) said he would treat them to what they wanted as long as it wasn't too expensive - that was the invitation," Heimberger said. He added that this still needed to be verified, but there were many clues suggesting the attacker had set up the invitation and sent it or posted it online.
Turkey's foreign minister said three Turkish citizens were among nine people killed in the Munich attack while Greece's foreign ministry said one Greek was among the dead. According to foreign media reports, there were also three Kosovo Albanian victims.
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she was "mourning with a heavy heart" for those killed, and that the security services would do everything to ensure the public was safe.
Bavarian Premier Horst Seehofer said the killings -  together with an axe attack by a 17-year-old asylum-seeker that injured five people in Wuerzburg, also in Bavaria, on Monday - should not be allowed to undermine democratic freedoms.
"For the second time in a few days we've been shaken by an incomprehensible bloodbath ... Uncertainty and fear must not be allowed to gain the upper hand," a visibly distressed Seehofer told reporters.
Both the Wuerzburg attack, and the Bastille Day rampage by a truck driver in Nice, France that killed 84 people on July 14, were claimed by Islamic State militants.
The Munich gunman, whose father a neighbor said had worked as a taxi driver, had no criminal record but had been a victim of theft in 2010 and assault in 2012, police said.
De Maiziere said there were indications the killer had been bullied "by others his age". He also cited concerns about the role violent video games may have played in the crime.
Police commandos, with night vision equipment and dogs, raided an apartment in the Munich neighborhood of Maxvorstadt early on Saturday, where a neighbor told Reuters the gunman had lived with his parents for about four years.
In the killer's room, police found a German translation of a book entitled "Why Kids Kill - Inside the Minds of School Shooters".
Asked if the gunman had deliberately targeted young people,  Munich police chief Andrae said that theory could be neither confirmed or ruled out.
Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann said there were several signs he had been suffering from "not insignificant psychological troubles."
Three of his victims were 14 years old, two were 15, one was 17 and one 19. The others were 20 and 45, the police chief said.
Police will also have to find out how the 18-year-old obtained the firearm in a country whose gun control system is described by the U.S. Library of Congress as being "among the most stringent in Europe".
"The investigation is still trying to determine where it came from," Heimberger said, adding that the assailant was not the registered owner of the gun.
"I am shocked. What happened to the boy? Only God knows what happened," Telfije Dalipi, a 40-year-old Macedonian neighbor, told Reuters. "... I have no idea if he did anything bad elsewhere."
ANKARA (Reuters) - The chief of Turkey's military General Staff said on Sunday soldiers involved in last weekend's failed coup had done great harm to the country and would face "the most severe punishment", private broadcaster NTV reported.
Hulusi Akar, who was briefly taken hostage by the plotters on the night of the coup, also said the armed forces would continue to perform their duties with determination.
"These cowards in uniform, these traitors have inflicted great damage on our nation and especially on our army," he told reporters during a visit to the interior ministry in the capital Ankara to inspect damage caused during the violence.
Akar was due to meet President Tayyip Erdogan later on Sunday, Turkish media reported.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Heavy rain in China has killed at least 87 people and forced  thousands from their homes, state media reported on Saturday.
Seventy-two people have been killed and 78 are missing in the northern province of Hebei after rain triggered floods and landslides, the Xinhua news agency reported, citing the civil affairs department.
Nearly 50,000 homes have collapsed, it said.
In the central province of Henan, 15 people were killed and eight were missing after thunderstorms and strong winds forced 72,000 people from their homes and damaged 18,000 houses,
Altogether about 8.6 million people have been affected by the flooding, according state media and local government reports.
Large parts of China have been inundated with rain this summer, killing more than 200 people.
More than 1.5 million hectares of crops have been damaged, leading to direct economic losses of more than 20 billion yuan ($3 billion), the government has said.
The central bank on Friday issued a statement saying it would provide financial support for flooded areas.
($1 = 6.6760 Chinese yuan renminbi)
(This version of the story corrects the numbers of people evacuated and affected)
VIENTIANE (Reuters) - Southeast Asian nations failed to find common ground on maritime disputes in the South China Sea on Sunday after Cambodia stuck to its demand the group make no reference to an international court ruling against Beijing in a statement, diplomats said.
Foreign ministers from the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) met for the first time since the U.N.-backed Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague handed an emphatic legal victory to the Philippines in the maritime dispute earlier this month.
The ruling denied China's sweeping claims in the strategic seaway, through which more than $5 trillion (3.81 trillion pound) in global trade passes each year.
China claims most of the sea, but ASEAN members the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei all have rival claims. Beijing says the ruling has no bearing on its rights in the sea, and described the case as a farce.
The Philippines and Vietnam both wanted the communique issued by ASEAN foreign ministers to refer to the ruling and the need to respect international law, ASEAN diplomats said on Sunday. Their foreign ministers both discussed the ruling in the closed-door meeting with ASEAN counterparts in Laos on Sunday, sources said.
But in the run up to the meeting, China's closest ASEAN ally Cambodia has put up opposition to mentioning the ruling, throwing the group into disarray. Cambodia supports China's opposition to an ASEAN stand on the South China Sea, and Beijing's preference for dealing with the disputed claims on a bilateral basis.
Cambodia's foreign minister Prak Sokhon declined to comment on his country's position on Sunday.
Despite a late night meeting of foreign ministers called to thrash out the issue late on Saturday, the region's top diplomats were unable to find a compromise.
ASEAN is now facing the prospect of being unable to issue a statement after a meeting for only the second time in its 49-year history. The first time, in 2012, was also due to Cambodia's resistance to language around the South China Sea.
"We have been here before and I hope they can solve it," said one official from the ASEAN Secretariat in Indonesia. "It is the same story again, a repeat of the meeting in 2012."
The group has given itself until Tuesday to come to an agreement and issue a statement, said one ASEAN diplomat. Over the next two days, ASEAN members will meet with China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.
Wang, who started bilateral meetings with ASEAN members on Sunday, declined to talk to reporters on arrival in Vientiane.
Japan's Foreign Minister Fumiko Kishida will also be in Laos for the ASEAN regional forum meeting. It is unclear if he will meet Wang, but China reacted angrily to Kishida saying he would discuss the sea if they do meet.
China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang, in a statement posted on the ministry's website, said the sea is not Japan's concern.
"We urge Japan not to hype up and meddle in the South China Sea issue," he said. "Japan is not a concerned party in the South China Sea, and because of its disgraceful history is in no place to make irresponsible comments about China."
The United States, allied to the Philippines and cultivating closer relations with Vietnam, has called on China to respect the court's ruling.
It has criticized China's building of artificial islands and facilities in the sea and has sailed warships close to the disputed territory to assert freedom of navigation rights.
But Kerry will urge ASEAN nations to explore diplomatic ways to ease tension over Asia's biggest potential military flashpoint, a senior U.S. official said ahead of his trip.
Chinese state media called for "damage control" at the meetings. A commentary published by the official Xinhua news agency on Sunday said the court ruling was a "blow to peace and stability in the region.... and only serves to increase the likelihood of confrontation and turbulence."
Barack Obama is set in September to become the first U.S. president to visit Laos, attending an annual summit hosted by the country that holds the ASEAN chairmanship.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Sceptics in the U.S. government, European allies in the anti-Islamic State coalition and the main Syrian opposition, distrustful of Russia's intentions, are questioning Secretary of State John Kerry’s latest proposal for closer U.S.-Russian cooperation against extremist groups in Syria.
Several U.S. military and intelligence officials called the plan naive, and said Kerry risks falling into a trap that Russian President Vladimir Putin has laid to discredit the United States with moderate rebel groups and drive some of their fighters into the arms of Islamic State and other extremist groups.
Some European members of the coalition against Islamic State forces have expressed concern about sharing intelligence with Russia, which they say has been an untrustworthy partner in Syria.
The current proposal, which Kerry hopes to conclude within weeks, envisions ways in which Washington and Moscow would share intelligence to coordinate air strikes against the al Qaeda-affiliated Nusra Front and prohibit the Syrian air force from attacking moderate rebel groups.
Kerry's State Department and White House allies say the plan is the best chance to limit the fighting that is driving thousands of Syrians, mixed with some trained Islamic State fighters, into exile in Europe and preventing humanitarian aid from reaching tens of thousands more, as well as preserving a political track.
In the end, according to two officials who support Kerry's efforts, there is no alternative to working with the Russians.
"There are reasons to be sceptical, as with any approach in Syria, but those who criticise this plan as unlikely to work or flawed on other grounds, like working with Russia, have the responsibility of presenting something better or more effective," said former White House Middle East advisor Philip Gordon, now with the Council on Foreign Relations think tank.Kerry's critics say the plan is flawed, in part because as it now stands it would leave the Russians and Syrians free to use ground troops and artillery against moderate groups fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces.
They also say targeting the Nusra Front is difficult because in some areas its fighters are comingled with more moderate rebels.
"That underscores two basic problems that Kerry seems to be ignoring," said one U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity. "One: The Russians' aim in Syria is still either keeping Assad in power or finding some successor who is acceptable to them. ... And two: Putin has proved over and over again, and not just in Syria, that he cannot be trusted to honour any agreement he makes if he decides it's no longer in Russia's interest."
Kerry and his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, will have an opportunity to meet this week at the ASEAN summit in Laos. But even if it is adopted, the plan is unlikely to provide quick relief for civilians trapped in a five-year-old civil war that the United Nations estimates has killed 400,000 people.
Kerry told reporters on Friday that Obama had "authorized and ordered this track" and that the plan would be based on specific steps, not trust. But even Kerry has refrained from voicing optimism, instead saying the effort was showing "a modicum of promise."
A European diplomat said Kerry and Lavrov have agreed to draft a map showing where the Nusra Front operates.
"The two sides would then, through joint analysis, decide who to target ... by getting the U.S. in the same tactical room; Moscow would then have to guarantee that Assad's planes stopped bombing," the diplomat told Reuters. "He is, in his Kerry way, optimistic. But the devil is in the details, and we're not convinced that Moscow is serious."
British Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said the United States and Russia have an understanding to minimize the danger of aircraft interfering or colliding with each other, and that the British were covered by that understanding.
"But it certainly does not extend to any cooperation over targeting, and we would not welcome that," Fallon said at an event in Washington.
Many U.S. officials are concerned that sharing intelligence with Russia could risk revealing U.S. intelligence sources, methods and capabilities.
Andrei Klimov, deputy chairman of the international affairs committee in Russia's upper house of parliament, said that even if the plan is agreed upon, it would be for only a short time, until the next U.S. administration takes office. Obama's presidency ends in January.
"I'm afraid Assad will expect tricks from the Americans," Klimov told Reuters. "They have been saying constantly he's an outcast ... and now they're about to tell Assad, 'You know, please give us a day's advance notice before you want to trash someone with your forces.'"
"Every time while talking to Assad we have to convince him, give arguments, additional guarantees. ... We can't give him orders, he's on his own soil."
Following a meeting with Putin last week, Kerry expressed concern about indiscriminate bombings by Syrian forces, but did not mention Russian violations of a cessation of hostilities agreement, although the CIA publicly has pointed to them.
"What's striking is not what Kerry has said, but what he’s failed to say," said another U.S. official, adding that Kerry had left out the "inconvenient facts" about Russian violations.
Robert Ford, a former U.S. ambassador to Syria and now a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute think tank in Washington, told Reuters that whether it was Moscow's bad intent or lack of leverage, "it's not clear to me that the Russians can deliver on their side of the deal."
The Syrian opposition said it was concerned whether Russia could succeed in getting the Assad's government to ground its air force.
"The (Obama) administration has put its bet on the good faith cooperation of the Russians, with so far very disappointing results," Basma Kodmani, a member of the main Syrian opposition High Negotiations Committee, told Reuters in Washington last week.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande's popularity rating has inched up from near record lows this month, despite heavy criticism he received over security issues since the Bastille Day attack in Nice, two polls showed.
Nineteen percent of those surveyed in a BVA poll published on Saturday said they had a favourable opinion of Hollande, up from a record low of 18 percent in June.
The poll for Orange and Itele was conducted on July 20-21, days after a delivery man in Nice killed 84 people when he drove his truck through a crowd of revellers leaving a July 14 fireworks display on the beach front promenade.
A July 22-23 Ifop poll for the Journal du Dimanche published on Sunday showed a bigger improvement, with those satisfied with the president rising three percentage points to a five-month high of 17 percent.
It had fallen to a near record low of 14 percent in June as Hollande's government faced a series of strikes and violent street protests over a contested labour reform.
While that standoff has subsided as the government forced the law through parliament despite opposition from leftwing lawmakers, the government has been heavily criticised over security since the attack in Nice.
Conservatives with an eye on a presidential election nine months away lost no time criticising Hollande's Socialist government for not doing more following last November's terrorist attacks in Paris that left 130 dead.
His Prime Minister Manuel Valls, who was jeered by a crowd in Nice at a commemoration for the victims there, saw his popularity rating dip in the BVA poll to a record low of 24 percent from 25 percent in June. In the Ifop poll his rating was unchanged from June at 21 percent.
Hollande's government has ordered an inquiry into policing on the night of the attack in the Riviera city in a bid to dispel criticism that security was inadequate.
Known for tough talk on security and immigration issues,  conservative former president Nicolas Sarkozy saw his rating jump four percentage points to 24 percent in the BVA poll.
That helped narrow some of the ground between him and Alain Juppe, his main rival to be the conservative Republicains' candidate for president.
Juppe, who is not seen as strong on security issues and was left scrambling to sound tough after the attack in Nice, saw his rating fall two percentage points to 42 percent, although he remained the most popular politician, according to the BVA poll.
Marine Le Pen, leader of the anti-immigrant Front National party, saw her rating in the BVA poll rise three percentage points to 27 percent after the Nice attack.
The attack led Hollande to reverse plans to end a state of emergency in place since the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris and instead extend it another six months, which lawmakers approved on Wednesday.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - The world's biggest economies will work to support global growth and better share the benefits of trade, policymakers said on Sunday after a meeting dominated by the impact of Britain's exit from Europe and fears of rising protectionism.
Philip Hammond, Britain's new finance minister, said the uncertainty about Brexit would begin to abate once Britain laid out a vision for a future relationship with Europe, which could become clearer later this year.
But there could be volatility in financial markets throughout the negotiations in the years ahead, Hammond said after the meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 (G20) major economies in China's southwestern city of Chengdu.
"What will start to reduce uncertainty is when we are able to set out more clearly the kind of arrangement we envisage going forward with the European Union," Hammond told reporters.
"If our European Union partners respond to such a vision positively - obviously it will be subject to negotiation - so that there is a sense perhaps later this year that we are all on the same page in terms of where we expect to be going. I think that will send a reassuring signal to the business community and to markets."
A communique issued by the G20 ministers at the end of the two-day meeting said Brexit, which dominated discussions, had added to uncertainty in the global economy where growth was "weaker than desirable". It added that members, however, were "well positioned to proactively address the potential economic and financial consequences".
"In light of recent developments, we reiterate our determination to use all policy tools – monetary, fiscal and structural – individually and collectively to achieve our goal of strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth."
The International Monetary Fund this week cut its global growth forecasts because of the Brexit vote.
Whereas monetary policy figured prominently in previous meetings of G20 financial officials, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau said there was very little debate this time and discussions focused instead on growth.
That was echoed by others.
There was broad consensus that the global economy needed more growth, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told reporters, while Chinese Finance Minister Lou Jiwei said it had been easier to forge consensus because the global recovery remained weak.
The specter of protectionism, highlighted not only by Brexit but also by U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's "America First" rhetoric and talk of pulling out of trade agreements, was also a focus for the policymakers.
"Not only Brexit but various risks of low growth remain, and there was a lot of debate on the need of monitoring developments including terrorism, geopolitical risks and refugees," said a Japanese finance ministry official. "A lot of concerns were voiced over spreading measures for protectionism."
In the communique, the G20 underscored "the role of open trade policies and a strong and secure global trading system in promoting inclusive global economic growth, and we will make further efforts to revitalize global trade and lift investment".
It recognized problems wrought by industrial overcapacity, particularly the steel sector, which had a negative impact on trade and workers. Overcapacity was a "global issue which requires collective responses".
"We also recognize that subsidies and other types of support from governments or government-sponsored institutions can cause market distortions and contribute to global excess capacity and therefore require attention," the communique said.
Persistent concerns about the potential for competitive currency devaluations were discussed, and the agreement to refrain from them was in the communique but did not appear to figure as prominently as in the ministers' February meeting in Shanghai.
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso expressed concern over China's weakening yuan CNY=CFXS.
"If you ask me whether a weakening yuan is a good thing for China, I cannot say so," he told reporters. "Whether up or down, a rapid yuan movement is undesirable. "This is our stance. The world too does not hope that only the yuan weakens, as it doesn't do just good to the Chinese economy. It may boost exports but it also raises import costs for China."
So-called "helicopter money" was not discussed, said Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who has repeatedly said helicopter money was not under consideration.
"This G20 meeting did not discuss things seen as helicopter money, or even the word helicopter money at all," he said.
Japanese markets have risen this month on speculation that authorities, battling to revive an economy dogged by decades of anemic inflation, will resort to using helicopter money, possibly issuing perpetual bonds to underwrite public debt.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysian authorities have recovered the bodies of eight Indonesians and are searching for more than 20 who are still missing after their boat capsized off the southern state of Johor on Saturday night.
Search and rescue teams recovered the bodies of two men and two women as of Sunday afternoon, adding to the four that were found after the incident on Saturday night, the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency (MMEA) said in a statement.
The dead and missing were among more than 60 people on the boat that capsized at around 9.45pm Saturday night while on its way to nearby Batam in Indonesia the statement added.
"A total of 34 victims were rescued... the survivors are now with Johor Immigration while the dead bodies were handed over to the police for further action."
The authorities are currently continuing the search within a five nautical mile radius of the location where the boat capsized.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Global finance officials, jolted by growing anti-trade and economic nationalism movements behind Britain's vote to leave the European Union and Donald Trump's U.S. presidential campaign, are intensifying pledges for more "inclusive" growth.
But some Group of 20 officials and analysts say this will be a long-term project.
Certainly, the benefits of these efforts are unlikely to be seen quickly enough to influence U.S. voters in the November presidential election, where both Republican Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton have declared their opposition to the 12-country Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade deal.
After a two-day meeting in Chengdu, China, G20 finance ministers and central bank governors prominently pledged to pursue policies that promote economic "inclusiveness" and preserve an open trading system, significantly strengthening previous statements on the subject.
"The benefits of growth need to be shared more broadly within and among countries to promote inclusiveness," the G20 officials said in a communique issued on Sunday.
"We underscore the role of open trade policies and a strong and secure global trading system in promoting inclusive global economic growth, and we will make further efforts to revitalise global trade and lift investment," the G20 said.
That is in stark contrast to Trump's acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention last week, where he promised to be a voice for Americans who have been "ignored, neglected and abandoned."
"The TPP will not only destroy our manufacturing, but it will make America subject to the rulings of foreign governments," Trump said.
"I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers, or that diminishes our freedom and independence. Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries."
Trump also has threatened punitive tariffs on imports from China and Mexico and says he will renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement despite 22 years of company supply-chain integration between the United States, Canada and Mexico.
And Clinton's running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, on Saturday declared his opposition to the TPP deal in its current form, just a week after making some positive comments about the deal's "high standards".
This puts him in line with Clinton, who says she wants to renegotiate TPP, and eliminates another potential "yes" vote should Congress attempt to ratify the deal later this year.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said on Saturday the UK's Brexit vote reinforced the need for policies that ensure "the benefits of growth do not just get into the bottom lines of business or investors, but also into working families and the middle class."
The shift by the G20 is an acknowledgement by global economic stewards that there is a strong and fast-growing movement towards economic nationalism globally that threatens protectionism, said Paul Sracic, political science professor at Youngstown State University in Ohio's Rust Belt.
"It's a first step but it's too little, too late," Sracic said of the G20 statement in a phone interview.
"The next U.S. administration, no matter which party, is not going to be as friendly to global economic relationships as the Obama administration has been. The politicians are going to follow the voters."
David Lipton, the International Monetary Fund's first deputy managing director, said while it would take time to turn around a "rising tide of populism", G20 countries needed to act to ensure globalisation remained an engine of future growth.
"Can it be done quickly? Probably not, but on the other hand, if we get a good start, I think it will be more credible in showing that the system is worth maintaining and pursuing," Lipton said.
He added there were many policies that could promote greater inclusion in G20 economies, such as better retraining programs for workers displaced by trade, progressive income taxes on the wealthy and tax credits for the working poor, along with infrastructure spending on public transportation, which, among other benefits, allows people to affordably travel to jobs.
Lipton also said other countries may not be able to follow China in improving living standards and developing into major growth engines if global interconnectedness were to suffer.
But Chad Bown, former World Bank economist and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute economics think-tank, said  policies needed to spread the benefits of growth more equitably will vary widely between countries, making it very difficult to achieve.
"G20 efforts to make growth more inclusive are never too late," he said. "However, pulling it off may be one of its most difficult endeavours."
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - There are no signs yet that economic development in Europe has been affected by Britain's decision to leave the European Union, but risks from Brexit could impact German growth down the line, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on Sunday.
Weidmann, speaking in China after a meeting of Group of 20 finance officials, said the group agreed that despite the Brexit vote the global economy would improve in 2016 and 2017, but he added that Brexit must not be used as an excuse for expansive fiscal policies.
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey (Reuters) - Kurdish militants attacked a police checkpoint in the eastern Turkish province of Tunceli overnight, killing one police officer and wounding two others, the provincial governor's office said on Sunday.
    Fighters of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) attacked the checkpoint with rocket launchers and rifles on the road between Tunceli and Ovacik at around 11:25 pm on Saturday (2025 GMT), the governor's office said in a written statement.
    The wounded were flown by helicopter to neighbouring Elazig province for treatment, while an operation was launched to catch the militants, it said.
Tunceli is a mainly Kurdish province but lies north of where most of the fighting between the PKK and the security forces has taken place in recent years.
The PKK took up arms against the Turkish state in 1984 and more than 40,000 people, mainly Kurds, have died in the ensuing violence.
A two-year ceasefire collapsed last July and the conflict is at its deadliest since the 1990s. Thousands of militants and hundreds of members of the security forces have been killed, according to government figures. Opposition political parties say between 500 and 1,000 civilians have also been killed.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - China's finance minister Lou Jiwei warned on Sunday that the government cannot easily step in to solve debt problems, but that China does not have systemic regional debt risks despite a few corporate defaults.
Lou was speaking at the conclusion of the G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu.
He said the country would take steps to prevent risks involving strategically important financial institutions, and implement both demand-side and supply-side policies - but rely mainly on supply-side reform.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Policymakers from the Group of 20 economies said on Sunday they recognise that excess capacity in steel and other industries is a global issue that has had a negative impact on trade and workers and which requires a collective response.
In a joint communique issued at the two-day conference of G20 central bankers and finance ministers in China, participants said they would resist all forms of protectionism, and would carefully calibrate and communicate macroeconomic and structural policy actions.
They also reiterated that excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates could have adverse implications on stability, and reaffirmed previous exchange rate commitments.
In addition, the nations said they were well positioned to proactively address potential economic and financial consequences of Britain's decision to leave the European Union.
(Reuters) - The massive hunt for an Indian Air Force plane that went missing in stormy monsoon weather over the Bay of Bengal on Friday with 29 people on board dragged into a third day on Sunday.
Air Force and Navy officials said the search was continuing but no signs of any wreckage had so far been found.
Local media channels reported that clear skies and improved weather on Sunday could aid ongoing search efforts, which India's Defence Ministry said on Saturday were hampered by choppy seas and thick monsoon clouds in the search area.
Sixteen ships, a submarine and six aircraft are searching for the plane that disappeared on a routine re-supply flight to remote islands in the Bay of Bengal on Friday.
The Russian-made AN-32 was on its way to Port Blair, the capital of India's Andaman and Nicobar islands, when it vanished from radar.
There were 21 military personnel on board the missing plane including six crew. The remainder were civilians and some family members of soldiers deployed on the islands.
PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Thousands of people attended a funeral procession in Cambodia's capital on Sunday for a prominent government critic, Kem Ley, whose killing has raised fears about political violence in the run-up to elections.
Kem Ley was shot dead in a shop in Phnom Penh on July 10. Police have arrested a suspect and say they believe the motive for the murder was a debt.
Government critics in a country with a long record of violent politics believe Kem Ley was killed because of his work as an activist and his political analysis though they say there is no evidence for that.
"I am here to accompany him for the last time," said Chhouk Da, 28, a volunteer helping to direct traffic as the procession made its way with Kem Lay's body in a refrigerated glass casket on a truck, flanked by Buddhist monks.
"He was just helping the nation," said Chhouk Da who was  wearing a T-shirt with the words "Wipe your tears, continue your journey".
The killing comes at a time of rising political tension  between Prime Minister Hun Sen and an opposition hoping to challenge his 30-year grip on power in local elections in 2017 and a general election in 2018.
Members of the opposition and activists have been jailed on charges they say were trumped up by the government as part of a crackdown to mute critics.
Mourners wearing white shirts held small flags, lotus flowers and pictures of Kem Ley, 46, as the procession including motorbikes and cars moved out of the capital to Kem Ley's home province of Takeo, about 70 km (40 miles) to the south.
Anti-riot police were on guard outside government buildings along the route.
Human rights group Licadho said the procession was at least 8 km (5 miles) long with thousands of people also lining the route.
A police video posted online showed the arrested suspect, Chuop Somlap, 38, whose name means "meet to kill", saying he killed the political commentator over a $3,000 debt.
The United States has called for a credible investigation. The European Union and United Nations have expressed concern about political tension.
Human Rights workers say the killing is bound to have a chilling effect on political activism.
"The assassination of Kem Ley - a calamity in itself - sadly reaffirms the primacy of violence in the politics of Cambodia," John Coughlan, a researcher at Amnesty International, said in a statement.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - The world's leading economies have discussed how to take advantage of their lower debt costs to spend more on investment as a way to boost weak economic growth, the head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said.
"Already lower interest rates create more fiscal space," OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria told Reuters on Sunday on the sidelines of a meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of 20 economies.
"The average cost of debt takes some time to show the full impact of interest rates because it's not only (over) six months, it's over several years."
The G20 is trying to find new ways to inject more energy into the world economy after extraordinary measures by central banks, which have cut interest rates close to zero, or below in some cases, produced only lacklustre growth.
The focus has turned more squarely to what governments can do through increased spending and reforms to make their economies more efficient.
China, Japan and Britain have already started easing their fiscal stance or hinted at plans to do so.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, taking advantage of the Bank of Japan's negative interest rates, has ordered his government to unveil a large spending package by the end of this month, including a so-called fiscal investment and loan programme aimed at spurring private-sector investment.
However, high levels of public debt in many countries represent a limit on big increases in spending.
Gurria said higher infrastructure spending featured prominently at the G20 meetings in the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu on Saturday and Sunday.
"We're talking about creation of fiscal space. Basically this translates into room for manoeuvre to undertake certain investments that could be strategic in certain sectors," he said.
The official G20 communique was unlikely to go into much detail about fiscal policy "but if you look at the number of papers, the number of things that were discussed, the issue is very active," Gurria said.
Governments could leverage their spending by inviting private investors to back up their financing. "Maybe a little bit of public finance will detonate a lot more of private finance," he said.
In that spirit, the European Union has created in the middle of last year a fund of 21 billion euros ($23.04 billion), which is to attract private capital to generate a total of 315 billion euros in investment over three years in various infrastructure, and research and development projects in the 28-nation block.
The fund exceeded targets already in its first year thanks to unexpectedly strong demand from small business and co-financing from the private sector.
($1 = 0.9113 euros)
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Downward pressure on the Chinese economy remains fairly large but it should be able to expand more than 6.5 percent this year, Bai Chongen, a policy adviser to the central bank and professor at Tsinghua University, told Reuters on Sunday.
"The pressure (on the economy) is still fairly large but there shouldn't be any problem for us to achieve growth of more than 6.5 percent," Bai said.
China's policymakers have already done a lot on the monetary policy front, Bai said, adding he agreed with the assessment that tax cuts would be more effective at spurring growth than interest rate cuts at this point.
"We have done a lot on the monetary policy front. Fiscal policy should be more appropriate," Bai added.
China has set a target for 6.5 percent to 7 percent GDP growth in 2016, after growth fell to a 25-year low of 6.9 percent in 2015.
SAN SALVADOR (Reuters) - Four inmates at a prison in El Salvador were murdered on Saturday amid a fight between inmates, the national prison service said via Twitter.
The inmates, members of the Barrio 18 gang, were killed in the facility which is in the city of Quezaltepeque, 21 km (13 miles) northwest of the capital.
The attorney general's office said that the death toll could rise.
In August last year, 14 inmates were killed in the prison, with authorities saying it was part of a purge within the same gang.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Two nephews of Venezuela's first lady, who face charges of conspiring to import cocaine into the United States, confessed to U.S. agents after being arrested in November to being involved in the drug scheme, newly-filed court records state.
Details of the confessions by Franqui Francisco Flores de Freitas, 30, and Efrain Antonio Campo Flores, 29, were contained in documents U.S. prosecutors filed late on Friday in a Manhattan federal court.
The papers include summaries of U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration interviews conducted on a Nov. 10 flight to New York from Haiti, where authorities had arrested the two nephews of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's wife, Cilia Flores.
The summaries were filed as exhibits to a motion by prosecutors opposing a bid by the men to have their post-arrest statements suppressed on the grounds that they did not fully understand their rights under U.S. law to remain silent.[L1N19R13R]
Both men have been held without bail since their November arrest and indictment for conspiring to import cocaine into the United States.
According to the DEA records, Campo Flores said they planned to get the cocaine from an individual who was in turn supplied by the Colombian paramilitary group Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).
Asked why he got involved in the deal, Flores de Freitas said: "To make money." Specifically, he expected the first load to make $5 million, earning him $560,000, the records state.
Prosecutors said the pair had hoped a series of drug shipments they would be involved in would generate $20 million.
A lawyer for Campo Flores declined comment, while a lawyer for Flores de Freitas did not respond to a request for comment.
Prosecutors accuse the nephews of working with others to try to send 800 kilograms of cocaine from Venezuela to Honduras so that the drug could be imported into the United States.
The case is one of a series of enforcement actions and investigations by U.S. authorities which have linked individuals connected to the Venezuelan government to drug trafficking.
The nephews' case has been an embarrassment for Maduro, who is embattled by a political and economic crisis in Venezuela.
In Friday's motion, prosecutors said recorded conversations involving the cousins before their arrests suggested they lived lavishly in Venezuela.
Campo Flores was recorded saying he owned Ferraris, and that "ever since we started making money we've been flashy".
But according to court records, Campo Flores told the DEA he did not have even $10,000 to his name and earned just $800 per week through taxis he owned in Panama.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey has captured a key aide to the U.S.-based Muslim cleric that it blames for a military coup attempt, a presidency official said on Saturday.
Halis Hanci, described as cleric Fethullah Gulen's right-hand man, apparently entered Turkey two days before the abortive coup, the presidency official told reporters.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey does not plan to extend emergency rule beyond a period of three months following a failed coup, but will do so if necessary, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Saturday.
"Our goal is that it shouldn't be extended, but if the need arises it may of course be extended," he said in an interview with the ATV television station.
YEREVAN (Reuters) - Armed men holed up for almost a week at a police station in the Armenian capital refused to lay down their weapons after freeing their last four hostages on Saturday, instead demanding the resignation of President Serzh Sarksyan.
An unknown number of gunmen seized the police station last Sunday to demand the release of jailed opposition leader Jirair Sefilian. The gunmen killed one police officer and took nine others hostage, releasing two of them the same day and three more on Monday.
Demonstrators who gathered to show support for the gunmen's cause clashed with police outside the station on Wednesday, and Sarksyan has so far shown no intention of using force to end the stand-off, or of moving to free Sefilian.
The gunmen freed their remaining four hostages on Saturday, including Yerevan's deputy police chief and a national deputy police chief, after the authorities agreed to allow the media in to the police station grounds.
"We have no intention of laying down arms. This is the centre of a free Armenia, and we want this atmosphere to spread over the whole of Armenia," Varuzhan Avetisyan, an activist in Sefilian's Constituent Parliament movement, told reporters, standing in the inner courtyard of the police station.
Avetisyan's statement was broadcast by several Internet sites and television. Several of the gunmen, at least some of whom are believed to be members of the Constituent Parliament movement, could be seen near Avetisyan in military uniform with Kalashnikov rifles.
Denouncing what he called widespread corruption and the dominance of the ruling Republican Party, Avetisyan said the main demand of his movement and of the gunmen was the resignation of the president, to be followed by new elections and the adoption of a new constitution.
"We will build a new state ... State institutions are not working here. You cannot move forward this way," said Avetisyan.
Sarksyan's administration was not available for comment.
Avetisyan's broadcast included a clip of an old man in a wheelchair who had came to the police station to call on his son, one of the gunmen, to leave the group and return home to look after him. But his son rejected his plea.
"I strongly love my father, but I also love my motherland. I demand Sefilian's release and Sarksyan's resignation," he replied in the broadcast.
Sefilian is accused by the authorities in the ex-Soviet state of plotting civil unrest. He was jailed in June on allegations of illegally possessing weapons.
A former military commander, he has accused Sarksyan of mishandling a long-running conflict between Armenian-backed separatists in the Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan and Azeri forces.
A Moscow-brokered ceasefire halted four days of violence in the South Caucasus region in April, the worst flare-up in years, but sporadic shooting remains commonplace, causing fatalities.
Nagorno-Karabakh's defence ministry said one of their soldiers was killed and another wounded on Saturday in shooting. Azeri officials were not available for comment.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House on Saturday condemned an attack at a demonstration in Kabul that left more than 80 people dead and hundreds wounded. [
"This heinous attack was made all the more despicable by the fact that it targeted a peaceful demonstration," the White House said in a statement.
"We remain committed to work jointly with the Afghan security forces and countries in the region to confront the forces that threaten Afghanistan’s security, stability, and prosperity," the White House said.
(Reuters) - Two youths unaware of their surroundings when they were playing Pokemon GO on their cell phones made an illegal border crossing this week from Canada into the United States in a remote part of Montana, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol said.
The two, who were not identified, were found by U.S. Border Patrol agents on Thursday, with their attention affixed to their phones as they were trying to hunt down cartoon characters on a journey that took them over the border.
"Both juveniles were so captivated by their Pokemon GO games that they lost track of where they were," said Michael Rappold, a spokesman for the agency.
The two were reunited with their mothers at a nearby border patrol station, the agency said.
The game has been an unexpected success from Spain to Australia, doubling Nintendo's value since the game's launch in the United States earlier this month.
Using mobile devices, players search for virtual Pokemon characters that appear to pop up at office spaces, restaurants, museums and other places. Players score points in various ways, including capturing the Pokemon characters with a flick of a finger on their phone screen.
The game was also to blame for a rash of car accidents and a slew of mishaps stemming from distracted players.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a message to Afghan counterpart Ashraf Ghani expressing readiness to fight all forms of terrorism together in the most active way after Saturday's bomb blasts in Kabul, Russian media cited the Kremlin as saying.
Twin explosions tore through a street demonstration by members of Afghanistan's mainly Shi'ite Muslim Hazara minority in Kabul, killing at least 80 people and wounding more than 230 in a suicide attack claimed by Islamic State.
"The head of the Russian state strongly condemned this cynical crime committed against peaceful citizens and reiterated readiness to continue the most active cooperation with the authorities and people of Afghanistan in fighting all forms of terrorism," Russian media quoted a Kremlin statement as saying.
LIMA (Reuters) - Peru's imprisoned former authoritarian leader Alberto Fujimori has filed a new request for a presidential pardon, the prime minister said on Saturday, five days before President-elect Pedro Pablo Kuczynski takes office.
It is unclear if the pardon would be decided by outgoing President Ollanta Humala, who rebuffed Fujimori's first pardon appeal in 2013, or by Kuczynski, who must govern alongside a Congress controlled by the populist party Fujimori founded.
Prime Minister Pedro Cateriano said Fujimori sent the pardon request to the justice ministry. "It will be processed according to the constitution and the law," he said on Twitter.
Fujimori, who suffers from hypertension and turns 78 next week, was jailed in 2007 and is serving a 25-year sentence for corruption and human rights abuses during his 1990-2000 government.
Hundreds of Peruvians who view Fujimori as a misunderstood hero marched in Lima on Friday to demand he be freed from prison.
Kuczynski, who narrowly defeated Fujimori's daughter, Keiko Fujimori, in a run-off election last month, opposes giving Fujimori a pardon that would clear him of guilt.
However, Kuczynski has said he would back a law that allows ageing prisoners like Fujimori to carry out the remainder of their sentences under house arrest.
Fujimori's lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Turkey should exercise restraint and avoid restoring the death penalty after last week's failed military coup, Greece's foreign minister said in remarks published on Saturday.
Turkey abolished capital punishment in 2004, bolstering its long-running bid for European Union membership. But since overcoming the July 15 coup attempt, President Tayyip Erdogan has told crowds of supporters chanting for the death penalty that such demands may be discussed in parliament.
"The winners of the internal conflict in Turkey must show magnanimity towards the defeated, (show) self-restraint and not reinstate the death penalty," Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias told Realnews newspaper in an interview released ahead of Sunday's publication.
Kotzias said the EU hailed the defeat of the coup and wants a democratic Turkey that respects the interests and needs of all religious, social and ethnic groups. "We don't want a Turkey of revenge, of break-up and destabilisation," he told Realnews.
EU leaders including French President Francois Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have said that Ankara could not reintroduce capital punishment if it wishes to join the EU one day.
But Turkey's justice minister said on Friday that the issue of whether or not Turkey brings back the death penalty should be considered from a legal standpoint and not in terms of what the EU wants.
Asked whether Greece would return eight Turkish soldiers who fled to Greece in a military helicopter after the failed coup, Kotzias said: "This will be decided by judges and other pertinent authorities. Surely they will take into account to what extent the eight (soldiers) were part of the coup."
The men - three majors, three captains and two sergeant majors - landed in the northern Greek border city of Alexandroupolis last Saturday after issuing a distress signal. They were arrested and have sought political asylum.
Turkish authorities have branded them "traitors" and "terrorist elements" and asked Athens to extradite them. Greece has said it will examine their asylum requests quickly.
On Thursday, the men were convicted of entering Greece illegally and handed a two-month suspended jail sentence. Their asylum requests are being examined and they are to appear before immigration authorities next week for further interviews.
A lawyer representing four of the men has said they fear for their lives if they are returned to Turkey.
Kotzias also said one should steer clear of making associations between people who fight for their rights in a democratic way and those who carry out coups, bomb parliaments and kill protesters.
"These people in no way deserve our solidarity. No one must forget that those behind the coup turned against the institutions of Turkish democracy."
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Islamic State shunned an offer for its fighters to withdraw safely from the Syrian city of Manbij and clashes with U.S.-backed forces still raged after its expiry, a spokesman for Washington-backed forces said on Saturday.
The jihadist group did, however, propose a deal to allow the safe passage of critically ill civilians to areas controlled by the U.S.-backed forces in exchange for allowing wounded IS fighters to leave the city, the spokesman said.
The Syria Democratic Forces alliance, made up of Arab and Kurdish fighters and backed by the United States, made rapid advances against the jihadists last month after launching a campaign to flush them out of territory along the Turkish border, through which they had for years moved weapons and fighters.
The SDF quickly surrounded Manbij, but the fight to take the city has been tougher, with slow advances inside it in recent weeks.
On Thursday the SDF-allied Manbij Military Council said Islamic State militants would be allowed to leave the city with light weapons, without a fight, if they left within 48 hours.
The offer was the idea of local actors, the Council's spokesman Sharfan Darwish said, without elaborating.
"The deadline is approaching, time is almost up ... and the battles are continuing. As far as we're concerned, the situation has not changed," he said early on Saturday, adding that there had been no apparent response from IS to the initiative.
"Our steps towards liberating Manbij are going ahead."
Darwish said later clashes were still going on after the expiry of the offer.
Darwish did not say whether the SDF would accept the IS proposal on wounded fighters and sick civilians. He said IS had been using civilians as "human shields".
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said clashes continued inside Manbij, and that the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS was bombing parts of the city and nearby areas.
Activists say dozens of civilians have been killed this week in air strikes in the city and to the north, and the opposition Syrian National Coalition called for a suspension of the air strikes while the incidents are investigated.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraqi forces are digging a trench on the northern outskirts of Falluja a month after taking it back from Islamic State, security officials said on Saturday, raising concerns about repopulating the deserted city.
Displaced residents are waiting for Falluja's streets and buildings to be cleared of IS explosives before returning, while the troops that retook the city are gradually being replaced by local police and tribal fighters.
Even as attention has shifted north recently to an expected offensive on Mosul, Iraqi forces have continued to pursue IS fighters, estimated in the several hundreds, in western Anbar province, where Falluja is located.
The ultra-hardline militants regularly launch suicide bomb attacks against security forces near Falluja as well as near Ramadi and Hit further to the west from the open desert or farmland areas to the north.
The trench north of Falluja extends about 5 km (3 miles) east from the Euphrates river towards the main highway from Baghdad, an hour's drive away, said Major General Saad Harbiya, an army commander. It is about one metre deep and 1.5 meters wide, he said by phone.
Harbiya said the barrier was meant to keep forces posted outside Falluja from entering the city proper following allegations that homes and public buildings had been looted and burnt after the IS defeat.
Keen to avoid a repeat of systematic looting after the recovery of cities like Tikrit and Baiji last year, government forces say they have managed to limit abuses to a few isolated cases in Falluja, long a bastion of Sunni Muslim insurgency and seen as a launchpad for bomb attacks in Baghdad.
Berms made of rubble and burnt-out cars went up on many roads inside the city after IS was routed in late June in order to confine an array of Iraqi forces to their separate areas of operation.
Mayor Issa al-Issawi, who fled following the IS seizure of the city in January 2014, said the trench was built for security reasons but would hinder efforts to restore life to the city, which once had a population of around 300,000.
"Falluja is now divided and we cannot work comfortably. This is not how things should be done," he said.
CARACAS (Reuters) - An appeal hearing into Venezuela's most prominent jailed opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez ended on Saturday, with he and supporters saying the nearly 14-year sentence for inciting violence should be immediately overturned.
"I am innocent of the crimes accused," said Lopez, 45, a hardline foe of President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government who has been in jail since February 2014.
"I assume my full responsibility for denouncing the Venezuelan state as corrupt, inefficient, anti-democratic and repressive, as it is my constitutional right to do," he added, according to an audio from the hearing released by his team.
Lopez's party Popular Will said only his mother and one lawyer were allowed into the Appeals Court for the session which began on Friday and ended around 2 a.m. local time (0600 GMT) Saturday.
Outside the court in downtown Caracas, supporters waited with banners demanding "Free Leopoldo!", while security officers kept watch of the area where government and opposition supporters have clashed during previous hearings in the Lopez case.
A decision on the appeal is due in 10 days, his party said, though there was no word from the judiciary or government.
Lopez was imprisoned for fomenting 2014 anti-government protests that spiralled into violence, killing 43 people on both sides. His supporters and rights groups say his imprisonment was a travesty of justice.
Lopez was accused of causing damages and fire, public incitement, and planning to commit crimes.
Though the Harvard-educated Lopez had publicly called for peaceful resistance to the Maduro government and was behind bars during most of the unrest, prosecutors said his speeches sent subliminal messages and constituted a call to violence.
But one of the prosecutors, Franklin Nieves, fled to the United States last year, saying he was pressured to frame Lopez.
"You know we received threats and orders to fabricate that case against Leopoldo Lopez. This is the opportunity to rectify," he said in a video message aimed at the judge and prosecutors at the appeal.
Officials and many grassroots "Chavistas", as supporters of the ruling movement are known after former leader Hugo Chavez, view Lopez as a dangerous radical in the pocket of Venezuela's wealthy elite and the U.S. government.
During a failed coup attempt against Chavez in 2002, Lopez, an economist who wants to replace 17 years of socialism with business-friendly policies in OPEC member Venezuela, helped organise the arrest of a cabinet member.
"I guarantee you Leopoldo Lopez and the killers of the (2014) protests will stay in jail because they must pay for their crimes," said Diosdado Cabello, the No. 2 in Venezuela's ruling Socialist Party.
PARIS (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will urge Southeast Asian nations in meetings in Laos next week to explore diplomatic ways to ease tensions with China over the South China Sea following an international court ruling denying China's claims.
Kerry travels to Laos' capital Vientiane on Monday for meetings of foreign ministers from the 10-member Association of South East Asia Nations where tensions between China and several ASEAN members, in particular the Philippines and Vietnam, over the South China Sea is expected to dominate talks.
"The Secretary will reinforce our hope that ... the parties will now turn to constructively engaging in a effort to find diplomatic ways to peacefully interact in the South China Sea," a senior U.S. official told reporters ahead of the trip.
The annual ASEAN gathering will be the first since the July 12 ruling by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague in a claim brought by the Philippines that China has no historic title over the waters of the South China Sea.
China has angrily rejected the verdict and pledged to pursue claims that conflict with those of several smaller neighbours. China has also blamed the United States for stirring up trouble in the South China Sea, a vital waterway through which more than $5 trillion (3.81 trillion pound) of trade moves annually.
Citing international rules, the United States has conducted freedom-of-navigation patrols close to Chinese-held islands where China has been bolstering its military presence, which has exacerbated tensions.
The U.S. official said it was important that ASEAN members "speak out and represent what common ground they found on issues", including the South China Sea, as they negotiate wording for a joint statement at the end of the meeting.
Laos has close political and economic ties with China
The official added: "I'd put a little more value on the conversation that happens among the ministers themselves than I do in the often lengthy and torturous prose that is pulled together by the staff afterwards."
Kerry will also discuss economics and trade, efforts to combat climate change, counter-terrorism and North Korea during his meetings.
The ASEAN meeting is one of the few occasions where the U.S. secretary of state and senior North Korean officials are in the same room. The 27-nation ASEAN Regional Forum includes the United States, North Korea, Russia, Singapore, Pakistan, India, Vietnam, Australia, China, Sri Lanka and Thailand.
Asked whether Kerry plans to meet his North Korean counterpart on the sidelines of the meeting, the U.S. official said: "Other than the ordinary milling around and passing in the hall there are no plans for a meeting between the secretary and the North Korean foreign minister."
North Korea has pressed ahead with its nuclear and missile development despite increasing international pressure. Earlier this month, Washington imposed sanctions against the country's leader, Kim Jong Un, for human rights abuses, a move Pyongyang called a "declaration of war."
"The North Korean foreign minister will again hear not only from the secretary of state but also from others in the room, that the world is not prepared to accept North Korea as a nuclear state," the U.S. official said.
The international community was prepared to pursue talks with Pyongyang "but not if North Korea continues to threaten and wilfully flout its international obligations and its own commitments," the official added.
VIENTIANE (Reuters) - Southeast  Asian nations were thrown into disarray after Cambodia on Saturday blocked them from issuing a statement referring to an international court ruling against China's territorial claims in the South China Sea,  diplomats said.
The U.N.-backed Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague handed an emphatic legal victory to the Philippines in the maritime dispute earlier this month, denying China's sweeping claims in the strategic seaway.
Foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) will meet for the first time since the ruling on Sunday, before hosting U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, and his Chinese counterpart, Foreign Minister Wang Yi among others.
The disputed sea, through which more than $5 trillion in global trade passes each year, is the most contentious issue for the 10 ASEAN members.
China claims most of the sea, but ASEAN members the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei all have rival claims. Yi has described the Hague case as a farce, and Beijing says the ruling has no bearing on its rights in the sea.
China is adamantly opposed to an ASEAN stand on the South China Sea, preferring to deal with the disputed claims on a bilateral basis.
Cambodia is China's closest ASEAN ally and is the only country opposing any reference to the ruling in a statement due to be issued after ASEAN foreign ministers meet on Sunday, an ASEAN diplomat told Reuters.
Cambodia is also pushing to strike out any reference to the militarisation of the South China Sea, watering down the language in statements issued previously by ASEAN this year.
Cambodia is heavily dependent on Chinese aid and investment. Last week, Cambodia’s Prime Minister Hun Sen announced China would give his government around $600 million in soft loans.
"Cambodia is unbelievable," one diplomat said on condition of anonymity. "It is blocking any phrase about the arbitration and about militarization."
A committee has been working since July 20 trying to hammer out an ASEAN statement acceptable to all, said another diplomat, but Cambodia has thwarted their efforts.
Indonesia has proposed that foreign ministers hold an informal meeting late on Saturday to thrash out an agreement.
Critics have long derided ASEAN as a feeble talk shop, whose overriding principle of making decisions by consensus keeps it from ever accomplishing anything of significance.
Some members of the group have started to talk about a change in a clause in ASEAN's charter on the need for consensus, a former Vietnamese diplomat told Reuters.
ASEAN is keen to avoid a repeat of a debacle in 2012, when for the only time in its 49-year history the group failed to issue a concluding joint statement for a regional foreign ministers meeting.
The group may issue a separate statement that emphasises unity, said an Indonesian diplomat.
"Our house is in a mess," he said. "We don't want ASEAN to be like Europe. We want to save ASEAN and be unified again."
The United States has criticized China's building of artificial islands and facilities in the sea and has sailed warships close to the disputed territory to assert freedom of navigation rights. Washington has called on China to respect the court's ruling.
Barack Obama is set to become the first U.S. president to visit Laos in September to attend an annual summit hosted by the ASEAN chairman.
Laos, a one-party communist state with little experience hosting international gatherings and one of ASEAN's poorest members, is this year's chairman of the grouping.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Iran said on Saturday the international community should make fighting terrorism its top priority, after an 18-year-old German-Iranian gunman apparently acting alone killed at least nine people in Munich.
The attack was the third on civilians in Western Europe in eight days.
"Today, fighting terrorism, in any form and place, is an urgent demand of the world community ...that should be considered as the top priority by all countries in an international consensus," Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi was quoted as saying by state news agency IRNA.
"The killings of innocent and defenceless people have become another stain on human history," Qasemi said.
The gunman opened fire near a busy shopping mall in the Bavarian capital on Friday evening. The attacker, identified by German police as a dual national from Munich, was later found dead of a suspected self-inflicted gunshot wound.
The Arab League also condemned the shootings.
"Arab League Secretary General Ahmed Aboul-Gheit ... said that increase of violence around the globe required strong effort on the part of the international community to end the loss of lives," the Kuwait News Agency reported.
Police said the teenager had received psychiatric care and was in all probability a lone gunman who had no ties to Islamic State.
BUDAPEST (Reuters) - Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Saturday said Donald Trump had proposed security policies that Europe should take to heart to solve a security crisis he blames on uncontrolled immigration.
Speaking at a summer university in Baile Tusnad, Romania, the Hungarian leader tied increased security threats to increased migration and cited Trump's proposals at the Republican National Convention to combat terrorism.
Orban is one of Europe's most outspoken politicians and has in the past upset fellow members of the European Union over policy.
Most recently he has taken a tough stance on Europe's  migrant crisis, objecting to EU resettlement plans and calling for a razor wire fence to be built along his country's southern border.
Trump accepted the Republican nomination for president on Thursday with a speech that outlined an increased intelligence effort, an end to a "failed policy of nation-building and regime change" and a total suspension of immigration from states "compromised by terrorism."
He wants a wall to be built along the U.S. border with Mexico.
Orban sought to buttress his own security proposals with Trump's points.
"I am not a Donald Trump campaigner," he said in the televised speech. "I never thought I would ever entertain the thought that, of the open options, he (Trump) would be better for Europe and for Hungary.
"But I listened to the candidate and I must tell you he made three proposals to combat terrorism. And as a European I could have hardly articulated better what Europe needs."
Orban has accused the EU of weakness in the face of a what he sees as a fundamental threat from more than a million migrants who arrived on the continent last year, with hundreds of thousands following them this year.
For the most part, the migrants are fleeing the war in Syria.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has called Orban "Viktator" - a pun on Viktor and dictator - as a way of putting down the Hungarian's views.
But Orban also has supporters. Slovak premier Robert Fico, joined Orban's court challenge of the EU's mandatory migrant resettlement quotas.
Tapping into Trump's proposals to create "the best intelligence-gathering organisation in the world," Orban said that Europe too needs to create a network of national intelligence agencies that ranks with the world's best.
He then took aim at some of his EU colleagues.
"The second thing, said this valiant American presidential candidate, is to abandon the policy of exporting democracy. I could not have said it more precisely."
Orban said Western countries acted recklessly to remove the undemocratic but stable regimes in Libya, Syria and Iraq without guaranteeing stability in the aftermath, exposing Europe to a mass wave of migration.
Worse, he said, instead of supporting the regimes that try to control the civil-war-torn countries in North Africa and the Middle East, Europe criticises them for democratic shortfalls.
"If we keep prioritising democracy over stability in regions where we are unlikely to succeed with that, we will create instability, not democracy."
BUDAPEST (Reuters) - Hungarian government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs declined to say on  Saturday whether Prime Minister Viktor Orban's support for U.S. Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump's security proposals meant a full endorsement.
Kovacs said the Hungarian government would not comment further out of respect for the ongoing presidential campaign in America.
Orban said on Saturday in Baile Tusnad, Romania, Trump had proposed security policies that Europe should take to heart to solve a security crisis he blames on uncontrolled immigration.
YEREVAN (Reuters) - A soldier from the breakaway region of Nagorgo-Karabakh, which is controlled by pro-Armenian separatists, was killed and another was wounded on Saturday as a result of shooting from Azerbaijan's side, Nagorno-Karabakh's defence ministry said.
A Moscow-brokered ceasefire halted four days of violence in the South Caucasus region in April, the worst flare-up in years, but sporadic shooting is still frequent.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility on Saturday for a suicide attack in Kabul targeting members of the country's Shi'ite Muslim minority, the group's Amaq news agency reported.
"Two fighters from Islamic State detonated explosive belts at a gathering of Shi'ites in... the city of Kabul in Afghanistan," Amaq said in a brief news alert.
Suicide bombers killed at least 29 people and wounded 142 on Saturday in an attack on a large demonstration by Afghanistan's Hazara minority, a mainly Shia group estimated to comprise about 9 percent of the population.
KABUL (Reuters) - The Taliban denied responsibility for a suicide attack on a demonstration in Kabul that killed at least 29 people and wounded 142 on Saturday.
Taliban chief spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a statement that the movement "did not have any involvement or hand in this tragic attack."
He said the attack, which hit a demonstration by thousands of members of the mainly Shia Hazara ethnic minority, was carried out by "enemy circles".
ANKARA (Reuters) - A Turkish minister chided the country's Western allies on Saturday for not sending any representatives to demonstrate their solidarity with Turks following last weekend's failed military coup.
Western leaders have pledged support for Turkish democracy since the July 15 coup attempt but have also expressed concern over the scale of purges against supporters of the coup and of the U.S.-based Muslim cleric Ankara says was behind it.
"We are very surprised that our allies have not come to Turkey to visit even after one week has passed," Omur Celik, the minister for European Union affairs, told reporters in Ankara.
Celik added that NATO needed to collaborate with Turkey, a reference in part to the struggle against Islamic State militants in Turkey's southern neighbours Syria and Iraq.
Turkey has the second biggest armed forces in NATO and is also negotiating to join the European Union.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he saw no reason for other countries to try to cushion the blow of Britain's exit from the European Union with more spending.
"I believe that is a matter that the Britons need to deal with themselves," he said on Saturday following talks with British counterpart Philip Hammond at a G20 meeting in China.
He said he currently did not see the decline of the pound following last month's Brexit vote posing fresh risks to financial markets.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Top officials from the Group of Seven rich economies want to see negotiations over Britain's exit from the European Union start as soon as possible, French finance minister Michel Sapin said.
"That the markets reacted well, that things remained under control, that there was a need to open the negotiations as soon as possible," Sapin told Reuters when asked about Brexit-related  discussions during a meeting of G7 officials on Saturday.
"We have to have certainty now around the timetable. We say that not to put unnecessary pressure on the British authorities but because I believe that is what everyone, all observers and the markets need," Sapin said as he left the meeting of G7 finance ministers and central bankers.
The G7 discussion took place on the sidelines of a meeting in China of officials from the broader G20 group which brings together many of the world's leading economies.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin sent condolences to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Bavarian premier Horst Seehofer over Friday's deadly shooting in Munich, Russian news agencies quoted the Kremlin as saying.
An 18-year-old German-Iranian gunman who apparently acted alone opened fire near a busy shopping mall in Munich on Friday evening, killing at least nine people in the third attack on civilians in Western Europe in eight days.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysian authorities said on Saturday they had foiled a bomb attack on top police officers and arrested 14 suspected Islamic State (IS) operatives in a week-long operation.
The suspects included a senior IS member who is believed responsible for recruiting a Malaysian IS militant, Abu Ghani Yaacob, who was killed in Syria on April 17, Inspector-general of police Khalid Abu Bakar said in a statement.
"Based on a search, police managed to seize one completed IED weighing one kilogramme, for use in a planned attack on the top PDRM leadership," Khalid said in a statement, using the Malay acronym for the Royal Malaysian Police, and referring to an improvised explosive device, or bomb.
Malaysia's security agencies are on guard against IS spreading in the Muslim majority, but multi-ethnic Southeast Asian nation.
A few months ago, officials estimated nearly 50 Malaysians, most of them from the Muslim ethnic Malay majority, had joined IS in Syria and Iraq.
Khalid said police believe the 49-year-old senior IS member detained in the northern state of Kedah was an active recruiter and was responsible for arranging for IS members to travel to Syria.
A 43-year-old woman who was believed to have been planning to sneak into the South Philippines to join the IS-aligned Abu Sayyaf group was detained in a separate raid in Perak state.
The 12 others detained in separate operations in various places including the capital, Kuala Lumpur, are believed to be from the same cell, Khalid said.
One of the suspects was believed to have passed on bomb-making instructions at the behest of a Malaysian IS recruiter based in Syria identified as Muhammad Wanndy Mohamed Jedi.
The 14 suspects are aged between 20 and 49, and include cooks, a mechanic, a welder and a student.
Police did not identify any of them.
Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said this year police had foiled an IS plot to kidnap Prime Minister Najib Razak and other senior ministers last year.
While both al Qaeda and IS have recruited Malaysians, there has been no significant attack by either group inside the country since the spectre of Islamist militancy loomed in the wake of al Qaeda's 2001 attacks on the United States.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on Saturday he would ease policy further if necessary to achieve its 2 percent inflation goal, while reiterating a commitment to continue with the current stimulus until prices are anchored there.
Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu, Kuroda maintained an upbeat view on the Japanese economy and price outlook in spite of rising market expectations for more BOJ monetary stimulus.
A majority of economists polled by Reuters expect the BOJ to ease policy next week, forecasting a combination of measures in another attempt to kick-start inflation.
"If the economy's (recovery) trend continues, leading wages and prices to rise in a virtuous cycle, which is continuing, prices will eventually rise to the 2 percent price stability goal," Kuroda said.
"We always examine risk factors for the economy and prices and will take additional easing steps if necessary to achieve the price stability goal. I'll explain that together with Japan's economy, prices and monetary policy at this meeting."
Kuroda went on to say that the major topic of G20 debate is how Britain's vote to exit the European Union would affect the global economy.
"Uncertainty will continue, including negotiations between Britain and the EU, which will take years. So we will be paying attention to such things," Kuroda said, adding that there was no change in expectations for global growth to rise despite Brexit.
Kuroda also shrugged off speculation about "helicopter money", saying that it would be prohibited by law if it meant the BOJ directly underwriting government debt.
"If it means that central banks are directly underwriting government bonds, or managing monetary and fiscal policies as one, that would be prohibited in Japan as well as other advanced economies, as lessons from history tell us," he said.
Japanese markets have risen this month on speculation that authorities, battling to revive an economy dogged by decades of anaemic inflation, will resort to using helicopter money, possibly issuing perpetual bonds to underwrite public debt.
"If governments utilise fiscal policy while central banks ease policy from the economic and price viewpoint, that would boost the multiplier effect on the economy. This so-called policy mix is nothing wrong as macro policy.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - The G20 economies will reiterate their determination to use all policy tools, individually and collectively, to achieve their goal of strong, sustainable and balanced growth, according to a draft of the G20 communique seen by Reuters on Saturday.
"We are making further progress towards the implementation of our growth strategies, as is indicated by the preliminary assessment of the international organizations as well as results from our enhanced peer reviews, but we also acknowledge that more needs to be done," the draft said.
"We reaffirm our previous exchange rate commitments, including that we will refrain from competitive devaluations and we will not target our exchange rates for competitive purposes. We will resist all forms of protectionism," it said.
The communique also said that the G20 hopes to see Britain as a close partner of the European Union, and that the economies were well positioned to proactively address the potential economic and financial consequences of Britain's decision to leave the European Union.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - China has demonstrated commitment to moving toward a market-driven exchange rate, said a senior U.S. Treasury official, speaking on the sidelines of a meeting of G20 finance ministers and central bankers in Chengdu on Saturday.
However, a key test will be whether the yuan is allowed to appreciate in value in response to market pressures, the official told journalists, adding that the renminbi has been moving in response to market factors.
"They have been exercising policy in a way that has been more clear than it was even a year ago. That's an important step," he said, noting that China in recent months had intervened in currency markets to keep the yuan from falling.
He also said he saw a path for China to manage a soft landing for its economy.
"I don't think it was ever realistic to think that China would grow at double-digit rates forever. The question is whether it settles into a sustainable growth rate for the long term. And that's where the reforms or so essential."
The official said that China needed to tackle "corrosive" industrial overcapacity, reform state-owned enterprises, allow competition into its markets along with other steps to accelerate its transition to a more consumer-driven economy.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Britain was unprepared for the outcome of the referendum to leave the European Union and so should be given time to respond, but it should not take too long because of the damaging uncertainty, French Finance Minister Michel Sapin said.
Britain voted on June 23 to leave the 28-nation EU, but has not yet given formal notice - a moment from which it will have two years to negotiate the terms of its exit.
European officials have therefore been calling on Britain to start the process without delay, arguing that postponing the decision to hand in formal notice was creating uncertainty which weighed on economic growth.
"At the time, which is understandable given the shock and the lack of preparation of the British authorities, Britain needed a bit of time to organise itself and reflect on the way it should respond," Sapin told Reuters.
"But the time should not be indefinite, uncertainty is damaging, also economically, and in particular for Great Britain. So one needs to engage in negotiations as soon as possible. The talks cannot be done in bits," Sapin said.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Indian ships and aircraft searched on Saturday for an air force plane that went missing over the Bay of Bengal with 29 people on board the previous day, with no indication what happened to the  aircraft or sign of wreckage, the defence ministry said.
Sixteen ships, a submarine and six planes are involved in the search for the plane that disappeared while on a routine re-supply flight to remote islands in the Bay of Bengal on Friday.
Military officials said the weather had been rough in the Bay of Bengal over the last two days because of the monsoon season.
"There was no emergency communication message received from the plane. There is nothing to suggest what exactly happened," said air force spokesman Anupam Banerjee.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar was overseeing the search operation, which was based out of the southeastern city of Chennai, from where the plane took off on Friday,  he said.
The Russian-made AN-32 was on its way to Port Blair, the capital of India's Andaman and Nicobar islands when it disappeared from radar.
There were 21 military personnel on board the missing plane including six crew. The other people on board were civilians, and some family members of soldiers deployed on the islands.
The Defence Ministry said two high-tech naval surveillance planes, four other naval and coast guard planes, along with 16 ships and a submarine were searching for the aircraft in one of India's largest search and rescue operations in recent years.
The submarine had been deployed to locate transmissions from an emergency locator beacon on the aircraft. The AN-32 is a workhorse of the air force, chosen for its ability to operate from short runways.
CHENGDU, China (Reuters) - Britain's vote to leave the European Union may dampen global growth, but European fundamentals are strong and the British economy and banking sector are resilient, European financial leaders will tell their counterparts from the biggest economies on Saturday.
Finance ministers and central bank governors from 20 of the world's biggest economies (G20) are in talks this weekend to discuss global economic issues and Britain's decision to leave the 28-nation EU, dubbed Brexit, is high on the agenda.
"The results of the UK referendum have increased uncertainty and may weigh on the global economic outlook," a terms of reference document agreed by EU finance ministers for the G20 meeting said.
"However, our economic fundamentals are strong. We affirm our assessment that the UK economy and financial sector remain resilient," said the document, obtained by Reuters.
The European position appears aimed at assuaging concerns expressed by the International Monetary Fund in its updated World Economic Outlook on July 19, when the Fund again cut its global economic growth forecast citing uncertainty caused by Brexit.
"The Brexit vote implies a substantial increase in economic, political, and institutional uncertainty, which is projected to have negative macroeconomic consequences, especially in advanced European economies," the IMF said.
According to the European terms of reference, European ministers will say during the talks that they stand ready "to act to maintain financial stability and support growth."
They will also call on all of the members of the G20 to put into action a strategy agreed last February to use monetary, fiscal and structural policies to boost confidence and growth without relying to heavily on cheap money from central banks.
The European ministers said in the document that Brexit with its possible negative impact on global growth only underlined the need to accelerate G20 growth strategies.
G20 leaders agreed in 2014 to launch reforms that would boost global economic growth by an additional 2 percent over five years but implementation has been lagging.
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which has the task of monitoring the G20 reforms, said in February that despite progress in tackling some of the main challenges, "the slowdown in the pace of reforms observed in 2013-14 has continued in 2015".
The G20 should implement the principles for structural reforms and prioritise among the needed reforms according to specific features of individual economies, the European document said.
TIRANA (Reuters) - Albania's governing and opposition parties passed a judicial reform package on Thursday, meeting a condition of the European Union for accession talks with the ex-communist Balkan state.
The constitutional package revamping the judiciary received unanimous approval in the 140-member chamber, seen as crucial to giving the reform a solid foundation. A consensus on the package had collapsed overnight and was rebuilt since morning.
The European Union wants the reform "to have teeth" to ensure it can make the country's judiciary independent, capable of fighting endemic corruption and ending impunity for politicians.
Hailing the vote, the EU said the reform would give citizens an "accountable, independent and transparent" judiciary and contribute to the fight against organised crime and corruption.
"These are all key priorities for Albania on its path toward integration into the EU", the EU's Albania office said.
"Now it is important that the implementation of the reform starts immediately, with the view that the people of Albania are served by a justice system that is firmly based on European standards", it added in a statement after the package passed.
Approved by 91 percent of Albanians angry with corrupt judges, the deal remained elusive after 18 months of talks with EU and U.S. officials, prompting Washington to warn of "severe, long-lasting" consequences if the reform was sunk.
The United States was proud to have supported the drafting and negotiation "of this strong reform package", said U.S. Ambassador Donald Lu. "Your commitment has made Albania a more just and democratic country", he said in a statement.
Since NATO member Albania became a candidate to join the EU in June 2014, Brussels demanded it do more to tackle crime and corruption, public administration and human and property rights, but set reforming the judiciary as its top priority.
The passage of the reform package is seen as remarkable considering that some Albanian leaders, who in the past have escaped corruption convictions on technicalities from friendly judges, could be threatened by an independent judiciary.
"Today's vote will set the stage for a much-expected revolution of the judiciary," Prime Minister Edi Rama told parliament. "I assure the Albanian people - the iron broom of vetting will wipe out corrupt judges and prosecutors," he added.
CARACAS (Reuters) - The Roman Catholic Church may soon join Ibero-American leaders seeking dialogue between Venezuela's feuding government and opposition, the head of a regional bloc said on Thursday.
"I think it's good news this petition has been accepted by both sides. It will enrich us spiritually and, hopefully, politically," said former Colombian president Ernesto Samper, who heads the UNASUR bloc of South American states.
With Venezuela enduring an unprecedented economic crisis, President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government is locked in a bitter standoff with the Democratic Unity opposition coalition.
The opposition won control of the legislature in 2015 and is pushing for a recall referendum this year to try and remove Maduro, whom they blame for Venezuela's runaway inflation, product shortages and third year of recession.
But Maduro, 53, the former bus driver who won election to succeed Hugo Chavez in 2013, accuses them of planning a coup and says the referendum will not happen. The government-leaning Supreme Court has shot down most of the legislature's measures.
UNASUR's Samper, and three other former heads of state - Spain's Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Panama's Martin Torrijos and the Dominican Republic's Leonel Fernandez - have for weeks been trying to bring both sides to the negotiating table.
But the rhetoric remains bitter, and various opposition leaders say Maduro's public exhortations to support dialogue are a cynical attempt to buy time and cling to power.
The opposition is suspicious of UNASUR and had been requesting a widening of potential mediators, including the Vatican. Pope Francis played a key role in facilitating Cuba and the United States' recent rapprochement, and the Church has said it is willing to help in Venezuela's crisis.Local church leaders have been extremely critical of Maduro.     Democratic Unity head Jesus Torrealba said the coalition would respond to Samper's invitation to dialogue at the weekend.
But he added that the opposition maintained its condition for talks: a recall referendum this year, permission for international humanitarian aid to Venezuela, the freeing of jailed government opponents, and respect for the legislature.
While critics blame failed socialist economic policies for the OPEC nation's economic woes, Maduro points to the fall in oil prices, along with an "economic war" led by domestic opponents and businesses with the backing of Washington.
Maduro, who met with Samper and the other former leaders on Thursday, said "the path was opening ... for a political dialogue about all Venezuelans' fundamental issues."
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece's lawmakers voted to revamp the electoral law and abolish a system of bonus seats on Thursday, in a move authorities say will better reflect public opinion in the crisis-hit nation.
At present, a bonus of 50 seats is offered to the party that wins the most votes in a national election, irrespective of how thin or wide the margin of victory is.
The law also lowers the voting age by a year to 17, a move the Interior Ministry said will 'sharpen democratic reflexes' among youngsters.
The reforms, which were a pre-election pledge of leftist Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, may heighten political uncertainty in a country which has held four snap elections since 2012. They produced no outright winners but fragile coalitions in a fractious political landscape.
"If one considers that under present circumstances grand coalitions are pretty remote, it's obvious the new law creates more uncertainty because three or more parties would be required to create a viable government," said political analyst Costas Panagopoulos, head of the ALCO polling agency.
Tsipras and his coalition partner, the right-wing Independent Greeks, are clinging to a narrow majority with 153 seats in parliament, against 147 for the opposition.
Tsipras' Syriza party has been ranking second in opinion polls but is more popular than the conservative opposition among younger age groups.
Lowering the voting age was a trend in the European Union and would help restore confidence in a political system that many Greeks blame for their protracted debt crisis, authorities said.
"Our proposal not only addresses an historical demand to boost democracy. It also satisfies a contemporary demand of Greek people's majority for our political system to be reformed and rejuvenated," Tsipras said before the vote.
Polling at 4-5 percent for years, Syriza stormed to power for the first time in January 2015 and was re-elected in September after signing up to a third international bailout and agreeing to more austerity.
Under Greek statutes, a threshold of 200 votes would be required for the abolition of the 50-seat bonus to take effect from the next election. The measure won a simple majority of 179 which means the change would take effect two elections from now.
The government secured a majority of 151 which was needed for the lowering of the voting age, which can come into effect immediately.
The left-led coalition of 153 got the backing of the Union of Centrists party, which has 9 seats. The conservative New Democracy party rejected the bill.
Young Greeks have been hit especially hard by the debt crisis, with more than half of those aged 15-24 out of work, the highest proportion in Europe.
"We chose to give younger Greeks a voice, a more essential role, since this is the generation which risks suffering the impact of the crisis," the bill said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said on Thursday that  Turkey should not be using democratic institutions to undercut human rights following a failed coup.
"We are making it very clear to our Turkish friends - we are fully behind the institutions, the democratic institutions, the legitimate institutions," Mogherini said after remarks at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "But there is no excuse, there is no way in which the reaction can undermine fundamental freedoms and rights."
Mogherini added "what we're seeing especially in the fields of universities, media, the judiciary, is unacceptable."
BAMAKO (Reuters) - Fighting broke out in the town of Kidal in Mali's desert north on Thursday between pro-government militia and a Tuareg-dominated rebel coalition, town residents and the United Nations said.
The violence highlighted the increasing fragility of a U.N.-backed deal signed a year ago between the government in the southern capital Bamako and northern armed groups that was meant to end a decades-long cycle of uprisings.
Mali's U.N. peacekeeping mission, MINUSMA, said the fighting was a violation of the ceasefire both groups - the Tuareg separatist Coordination of Azawad Movements (CMA) and pro-government Gatia militia - agreed to as part of the deal.
The sound of gunfire rang out in Kidal, one of northern Mali's main towns, from around 4 p.m. (1600 GMT) and sent residents fleeing indoors for cover as clashes quickly spread.
"We were at the mosque when we heard a few gunshots," said Ahamadou Thegoum, a Kidal resident. "Fifteen minutes later, they let loose and we heard gunfire practically all over town, steady gunfire and sometimes explosions."
One young girl was killed in crossfire while a second was injured, according to the father of the dead girl. Another family member had earlier said that both girls had been killed.
A CMA fighter, who asked not to be named, claimed that four Tuareg rebels had died, while 10 Gatia fighters were killed, but the death toll could not be independently verified.
Military helicopters circled above the town during the fighting, he said, though it wasn't clear if they belonged to Mali's U.N. peacekeeping mission or a French force fighting Islamist militants in the arid Sahel region.
Kidal is a traditional stronghold of rebels claiming a Tuareg homeland they call Azawad, but the CMA and pro-government Gatia militia had peacefully shared control of Kidal since February.
Tensions have been building over the past few days, however, amid tit-for-tat violence, and both sides reinforced their positions in and around Kidal.
The government of neighbouring Niger attempted to mediate between the groups, and representatives of the pro-Bamako militia and the rebels signed a truce on Sunday.
But from Wednesday, CMA fighters occupied Kidal's main roads and established positions to block Gatia from entering the town centre. One CMA fighter reached by phone in Kidal said Gatia had started Thursday's clash.
"This morning CMA told the militias to stay where they were and maintain their positions outside of the town, but they tried to force their way in," he said, asking not to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the press.
Gatia leader Fahad Ag Almahmoud rejected responsibility for the violence. "CMA sought to reduce our mobility in Kidal," he said. "This afternoon one of our brigades was returning from the bush ... CMA fighters opened fire at them at close range."
Islamist militant groups, some with links to al Qaeda, hijacked a Tuareg uprising in 2012 and seized northern Mali until a French-led intervention drove them back a year later.
Last year's peace agreement signed by the government, its militia allies and the separatists was intended to ease long-standing tensions in the north and allow the army to concentrate on fighting jihadist groups.
However the deal is fraying and new groups are  springing up to destabilise the West African nation.
Islamist militants killed 17 Malian soldiers and wounded 35 others earlier this week when they attacked an army base in the centre of the country, firing on troop positions, burning buildings and pillaging shops.
"They defended their nation with honour and dignity. Today, they are dead, but their country will avenge them," President Ibrahim Boubacar Kéita said at a memorial ceremony for the soldiers in the town of Segou.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - A final United Nations memo on Britain, Germany, Sweden and Jordan's withdrawals of police from a peacekeeping mission in South Sudan without telling the world body, left out draft language questioning Britain's Security Council veto power.
The one-page confidential note to U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon from peacekeeping chief Herve Ladsous dated July 15 and seen by Reuters on Thursday, said the four countries would be barred from replacing the police once South Sudan's situation improves.
The note to Ban was largely similar to a draft memo, seen by Reuters on Wednesday, but it did not have language questioning Britain's Security Council veto power when "they themselves are quick to abandon their post in challenging situations."
When asked about the draft memo critical of Britain, U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq said: "I'm not aware that there is any sort of authentic memo." He added that his colleagues "looked all over their memos and there's no such document that they see."
It was not immediately clear why the language on Britain's Security Council veto power was not included in the final memo, though some officials did note that the strong criticism was not a typical U.N. approach.
Heavy fighting involving tanks and helicopters raged in South Sudan's capital Juba for several days earlier this month between troops loyal to President Salva Kiir and those backing Vice President Riek Machar. At least 272 people were killed.
A spokesman for the British U.N. mission said on Wednesday that Britain temporarily removed two unarmed police officers on July 13 "for the officers' safety" and had told the U.N. police adviser in advance.
Ladsous' note to Ban said the departure of the police officers from the four countries had "affected the operational capability of the mission at headquarters level and has dealt a serious blow to the morale of its peacekeepers."
The draft memo said the United States had also reportedly planning to pull out nine police, but a spokesman for the U.S. mission said there were no plans to withdraw police.
The German U.N. mission confirmed that it had evacuated seven police serving with the U.N. mission, UNMISS, and said that the United Nations had been notified orally and in writing beforehand.
The Swedish mission said it had repatriated three officers for medical reasons and that 15 officers remain in South Sudan. "Sweden has not, and will not, withdraw the police support to the UNMISS mission," it said.
The Jordanian U.N. mission did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson is scheduled to meet  Ban in New York on Friday during his first visit to the United States since being appointed last week.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande on Thursday told Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas of his concern at the "fragility" of the situation in the Middle East in a context of mounting violence, the president's office said.
In a statement after the two leaders met in Paris, the French president's office said France was committed to leading international efforts to help secure peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
"While the latest report from the Quartet shows the two-state solution is under threat by continued settlement-building, there is an urgent need to recreate a political perspective," the statement added.
With U.S. efforts to broker an accord in deep freeze for two years and Washington focused on its November presidential election, France hosted a conference last month with the aim of breaking the apathy over the impasse and stir new diplomatic momentum.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - As U.S. public health officials try to determine whether Zika has arrived in the country, doctors are establishing guidelines on how to care for the rising number of babies whose mothers were infected with the virus during pregnancy.
Florida said it is investigating two possible cases of Zika not related to travel to an area where Zika is active, raising the possibility of the first incidence of local transmission of the mosquito-borne virus.
On Thursday, the Florida Department of Health said it was investigating a non travel-related case of Zika in Broward County, marking the second such case. Florida has asked the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to assist in its investigation that must also rule out sexual transmission.
So far, 400 pregnant women in the continental United States have evidence of Zika infection, up from 346 from a week ago, the CDC reported on Thursday. All of those were related to travel or sex with an infected person who had traveled.
Three more babies have been born in the United States with birth defects linked to Zika infections in their mothers, bringing the total to 12, CDC said.
Zika has been proven to cause microcephaly, a severe birth defect marked by small head size and undersized brains that requires a complex network of care providers and social workers to treat and provide support to parents.
But microcephaly is just the tip of the iceberg, according to experts speaking at a CDC-sponsored workshop on Thursday. They said many babies exposed in utero who appear normal at birth may have developmental problems down the road, including hearing and vision problems.
For example, babies born without a functional sucking reflex may never develop the ability to swallow and will need to be fed through a feeding tube. These infants will have a higher risk of  pneumonia, said Dr. Edwin Trevathan, a pediatrician and child neurologist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center.
Less obvious damage to structures on only one side of the brain may cause seizure disorders that do not appear until adolescence, Trevathan said.
Pediatric experts at the workshop are reviewing the potential consequences of Zika infection and plan to make recommendations on ways to treat Zika-exposed infants.
The connection between Zika and microcephaly first came to light last fall in Brazil, which has now confirmed more than 1,600 cases of microcephaly that it considers related to Zika infections in the mothers.
The recommendations come as Florida officials investigate what may be the first cases of Zika in the continental United States caused by the bite of a local mosquito.
Florida officials will not elaborate on how a resident of Miami was infected and whether the first case under investigation was related to mosquitoes.
"We continue to investigate and have not ruled out travel or sexual transmission at this time," Florida spokeswoman Mara Gambineri said in an email on Thursday. However, she said the state still suspects the case is not related to travel to a Zika-infected area.
The White House on Wednesday released a statement saying President Barack Obama had spoken to Florida Governor Rick Scott regarding a suspected case of mosquito transmission of Zika and promised more money to fight the virus.
At the Zika workshop, Dr. Marc Fischer, chief of surveillance and epidemiology activity at the arboviral diseases branch of the CDC, said the agency has worked with state health departments to establish strategies to identify possible local transmission in the United States.
"When and if there is a case of local transmission, we work with local health departments to identify additional cases to define the geographic scope of the outbreak," he said.
That includes surveying households and neighbors within a 150-yard radius around the residence of the person who has Zika.
"That's basically the flying radius of the vector mosquitoes," he said.
According to the U.S. Zika response plan, Zika local transmission is defined as two or more cases not due to travel or sex with an infected person that occur in a one-mile diameter over the course of a month.
CDC has given Florida $2 million for Zika preparedness, and on Thursday awarded another $5.6 million to assist the state with Zika as part of an additional $60 million in Zika funds to states announced on Thursday. U.S. lawmakers so far have not approved any of the White House's $1.9 billion request for Zika.
CDC plans to award another $10 million to states and territories on Aug. 1 to speed identification of microcephaly and other birth defects linked to Zika.
Global health officials are racing to better understand the Zika virus behind a major outbreak that began in Brazil last year and has spread to many countries in the Americas.
The following are some questions and answers about the virus and current outbreak:
How do people become infected?
Zika is transmitted to people through the bite of infected female mosquitoes, primarily the Aedes aegypti mosquito, the same type that spreads dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) said Aedes mosquitoes are found in all countries in the Americas except Canada and continental Chile, and the virus will likely reach all countries and territories of the region where Aedes mosquitoes are found.
How do you treat Zika?
There is no treatment or vaccine for Zika infection. Companies and scientists are racing to develop a safe and effective vaccine for Zika, but the World Health Organization (WHO) had said it would take at least 18 months to start large-scale clinical trials of potential preventative shots.
How dangerous is it?
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded that infection with the Zika virus in pregnant women is a cause of the birth defect microcephaly and other severe brain abnormalities in babies. The CDC said now that the causal relationship has been established, several important questions must still be answered with studies that could take years.
According to the World Health Organization, there is strong scientific consensus that Zika can cause the birth defect microcephaly in babies, a condition defined by unusually small heads that can result in developmental problems. In addition, the agency said it could cause Guillain-Barre syndrome, a rare neurological disorder that can result in paralysis. Conclusive proof of the damage caused by Zika may take months or years.
Brazil reports the number of confirmed cases of microcephaly at more than 1,600 as doctors and Brazilian health officials find that some suspected cases of microcephaly are not the disorder. Suspected ones under investigation declined to 3,257.
Colombia confirmed two cases of microcephaly linked to Zika.
Brazil registered 91,387 likely cases of the Zika virus from February until April 2.
Current research in Brazil indicates the greatest microcephaly risk is associated with infection during the first trimester of pregnancy, but health officials have warned an impact could be seen in later weeks. Recent studies have shown evidence of Zika in amniotic fluid, placenta and fetal brain tissue.
What are the symptoms of Zika infection?
People infected with Zika may have a mild fever, skin rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain and fatigue that can last for two to seven days. But as many as 80 percent of people infected never develop symptoms. The symptoms are similar to those of dengue or chikungunya, which are transmitted by the same type of mosquito.
How can Zika be contained?
Efforts to control the spread of the virus focus on eliminating mosquito breeding sites and taking precautions against mosquito bites such as using insect repellent and mosquito nets. U.S. and international health officials have advised pregnant women to avoid travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries where they may be exposed to Zika. Cases of sexual transmission have also been reported, prompting health officials to advise use of condoms, or abstaining from sex, to prevent infection between partners.
How widespread is the outbreak?
Active Zika outbreaks have been reported in at least 50 countries or territories, most of them in the Americas, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Brazil has been the country most affected. (1.usa.gov/1ovAJyh)
Africa (1): Cape Verde
Americas (41): Anguilla, Argentina, Aruba, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Bonaire, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, French Guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Martinique, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, Saint Barthelmy, Saint Lucia, Saint Martin, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saint Eustatius, St. Maarten, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, U.S. Virgin Islands and Venezuela
Oceania/Pacific Islands (8): American Samoa, Fiji, Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, New Caledonia, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, and Tonga.
What is the history of the Zika virus?
The Zika virus is found in tropical locales with large mosquito populations. Outbreaks of Zika have been recorded in Africa, the Americas, Southern Asia and the Western Pacific. The virus was first identified in Uganda in 1947 in rhesus monkeys and was first identified in people in 1952 in Uganda and Tanzania, according to the WHO.
Can Zika be transmitted through sexual contact?
The World Health Organization (WHO) said sexual transmission is "relatively common" and has advised pregnant women not to travel to areas with ongoing outbreaks of Zika virus. It also  advised women living in areas where the virus is being transmitted to delay getting pregnant.
The U.S. CDC is investigating about a dozen cases of possible sexual transmission. All cases involve possible transmission of the virus from men to their sex partners. The WHO has also identified Zika cases in Argentina, Chile, France, Italy and New Zealand as likely caused by sexual transmission.
British health officials reported Zika was found in a man's semen two months after he was infected, suggesting the virus may linger in semen long after infection symptoms fade.
The PAHO said Zika can be transmitted through blood, but this is an infrequent transmission mechanism. There is no evidence Zika can be transmitted to babies through breast milk.
What other complications are associated with Zika?
Zika has also been associated with other neurological disorders, including serious brain and spinal cord infections. The long-term health consequences of Zika infection are unclear. Other uncertainties surround the incubation period of the virus and how Zika interacts with other viruses that are transmitted by mosquitoes, such as dengue.
BANJUL (Reuters) - A court in Gambia convicted 11 opposition supporters on Thursday on charges including unlawful assembly, rioting and conspiracy after they staged a protest in May calling for elections reforms in a case that has drawn international criticism.
The convictions of the United Democratic Party (UDP) supporters comes just a day after another group of 18 party members were jailed on similar charges.
Those convicted on Thursday participated in an April 14 march near the capital, Banjul, and refused to defend themselves before the court or participate in their trial.
"I therefore hold that the prosecution has proved the ingredients of the case beyond all reasonable doubts. I therefore hold all the accused persons guilty," Justice Simeone Ateh Abi announced in the court.
The trial was held in the town of Mansa Konko, around 130 km (81 miles) east of Banjul.
Each of the defendants was convicted on seven separate counts. The sentences for the individual charges ranged from monetary fines to three years in prison, with the combined sentences totalling 18 years imprisonment.
It was unclear, however, whether the accused would be allowed to serve those sentences concurrently.
Another group of 21 UDP supporters is still on trial.
The protests were a rare instance of open opposition to the iron-fisted rule of President Yahya Jammeh, who has ruled the tiny West African country for two decades after seizing power in a bloodless coup.
Rights groups accuse him of cracking down on political opponents figures as he eyes a December election, where he will seek his fifth term, after he scrapped term limits.
Both the United Nations and the United States condemned the arrests.
JUBA (Reuters) - South Sudan's president wants his vice president to return to the capital to try to salvage a peace agreement that was jeopardised by fighting earlier this month between forces loyal to the two long-time rivals.
President Salva Kiir asked Vice President Riek Machar on Thursday to make contact with him in the next 48 hours, to re-establish a peace agreement signed in August.
Forces loyal to the two men fought street battles in the capital over a five-day period earlier this month, until a ceasefire was reached on July 11. The fighting killed at least 272 people.
Machar then left the capital with his troops, although he said he was not preparing for a resumption of the fighting that convulsed South Sudan from December 2013 and ended earlier this year. His spokesman said he had called for an outside force to be deployed as a buffer his and Kiir's forces.
Kiir said late last week he opposed the presence of any more outside forces, saying the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) troops was sufficient.
"I am appealing for your return while reiterating my 100 percent commitment to ensuring your protection and overall security ... " Kiir said in a statement read by his spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny. "I will be expecting a response from your good self within 48 hours ... "
The statement said Kiir wanted to re-establish a peace agreement signed in August. That agreement ended more than two years of conflict between the Kiir and Marchar forces. More than 10,000 people died over 2 million were displaced, many of whom fled to neighbouring countries.
The statement did not say what would happen if Machar failed to return or make contact. He had just returned to Juba in April to take up the position of first vice president, a move that was part of the peace agreement.
"It is an unreasonable ultimatum," said James Gatdet Dak, Machar's spokesman. "First of all, President Kiir should be talking of how to restore peace and security to Juba. This can be done with the expected deployment of a third- party force," James Gatdet Dak, Machar's spokesman, said.
Late last week, the African Union and the Inter Governmental Authority of Development, an east African bloc, said they supported the deployment of a regional force. They said UNMISS's mandate should be change to that of an intervention force.
Separately, U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq said UNMISS was looking into reports of sexual violence - including rape and gang rape - against civilians, including minors, by soldiers in uniform in several parts of Juba.
"The Mission reports that the number of victims could be in the dozens and that these acts have taken place since the start of the current spate of violence in Juba," Haq said in a statement.  
ROME (Reuters) - An Irish navy ship recovered 17 dead bodies on Thursday when it went to the aid of migrants packed onto a wooden boat off the coast of Libya, Italy's coastguard said, marking another deadly day of attempted sea crossings.
The LE James Joyce, which is in the Mediterranean specifically to perform search-and-rescue operations, brought on board the bodies of 16 men and one boy, a coastguard spokesman said. He could provide no further details about the cause of death or the nationalities of the dead.
On Wednesday, 22 bodies were recovered from a rubber boat off the Libyan coast, and some 3,000 are dead or missing after trying to reach the European Union by sea so far this year, the International Organization for Migration estimates.
The LE James Joyce, an Italian navy vessel, a British ship participating in an EU anti-people smuggling operation, and a vessel operated by a humanitarian group also brought 1,128 migrants to safety on Thursday, the coastguard said.
There has been a jump in the number of migrants who people smugglers have put onto overcrowded boats in Libya this week amid calm seas and hot summer weather.
On Tuesday alone, some 3,200 migrants were rescued at sea and one dead body was recovered.
With Europe's migrant crisis in its third year, the Mediterranean has become the world's most dangerous border for migrants.
More then 84,000 have crossed the sea from North Africa to Italy so far this year, in line with the number who came over during the same period last year, according to official data.
That brings the total number of migrants to have reached Italy by to more than 400,000 since the beginning of 2014.
PARIS (Reuters) - France's government said on Thursday it had ordered an inquiry into policing on the night of last week's deadly truck attack in Nice in a bid to dispel mounting criticism of security arrangements.
President Francois Hollande, whose personal ratings have plunged since the attack, said the investigation by the national police inspectorate and its report due next week would clear the air after days of accusations from local politicians.
"We will see proof that the preparations were from the start of the required serious standard," the Socialist leader, who is facing elections next year, said during a visit to Ireland. "If there were any shortcomings they will come to light."
Tunisian delivery man Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel was able to drive a 19-tonne truck along a packed sea-front promenade that was cordoned off and mow down dozens of locals and foreigners, killing at least 84 people before police shot him dead.
Much of the criticism, beyond the system of road blocks easily breached by the truck, centres a complex command structure where some units of police answer to local government and others to central government.
The inquiry will look into the detail of how the area was cordoned off for the traditional Bastille Day festivities and how the area was patrolled.
"I welcome the interior minister's decision to order an inquiry of the Nice attack by the police of police," tweeted Christian Estrosi, the head of the regional government in the southeast Riviera coast area who has led the criticism.
The right-wing politician has accused the Socialist administration of misleading the public on the details of the policing arrangements and of not doing enough to protect the public.
Nice police department chief Adolphe Colrat, who answers to central government rather than the regional politicians who are leading the criticism, said the authorities had "at no time" lied or misled people on policing arrangements.
Polls in the wake of the attack showed Hollande's rating as a leader capable of fighting terrorism plunged to 33 percent from upwards of 50 percent after two previous attacks by Islamist militants. They also show three in four people do not want him to get a second term in elections a year from now.
PARIS (Reuters) - The Tunisian man who killed 84 people on the French Riviera by ploughing his truck into Bastille Day crowds had been planning the attack for months with the help of at least five accomplices, the Paris prosecutor said on Thursday.
"The investigation under way since the night of July 14 has progressed and not only confirmed the murderous premeditated nature of Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel's act but also established that he benefited from support and complicity," Francois Molins told a news conference.
The prosecutor said he had placed the five people - an Albanian couple, a Tunisian man and two Franco-Tunisian men - under formal investigation after they were taken into custody. None of them had been known to intelligence services.
Records of Bouhlel's phone use indicated a large number of exchanges, calls and text messages over the last year with several of the accomplices under investigation, he said.
Bouhlel received a text from one of the men a few days after the January 2015 Islamist attacks on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper and a Jewish deli saying: "I am not Charlie ... I am glad, they brought in Allah's soldiers to finish the job."
A day after that text was sent, on Jan. 11, millions of French people rallied in Paris and other French cities under the slogan "Je Suis Charlie" (I am Charlie) in solidarity with the victims at the satirical newspaper.
The July 14 attack by the Tunisian delivery man at peak holiday time on the Riviera plunged France into new grief and fear, just eight months after jihadist gunmen killed 130 people in Paris.
Islamic State has claimed the Nice attack, calling Bouhlel one of its soldiers, but authorities say they have yet to find evidence that the 31-year-old, who was shot dead by police, had any actual links to the militant group.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini and Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn on Thursday urged Turkey to respect the rule of law, rights and freedoms after declaring a state of emergency following a failed military coup.
The EU is "concerned" about developments after Turkey imposed emergency rule earlier in the day and measures taken so far in the fields of education, judiciary and media are "unacceptable", Mogherini and Hahn said in a statement.
Tens of thousands of public-sector workers have been sacked, suspended or detained as the government seeks to purge its bureaucracy of suspects behind the attempted intervention on July 15. Officials blame a religious movement for the plot.
Any temporary suspension of the European Convention of Human Rights must follow the rules of derogation, they said without elaborating, after a Turkish deputy prime minister said Turkey would do so during emergency rule.
AMMAN (Reuters) - The European Union has relaxed trade rules with Jordan in return for allowing thousands of Syrian refugees to work in its companies, EU and Jordanian officials said on Thursday.
Jordanian manufacturers that employ a certain number of refugees will pay less or no duties on many of their exports to the EU for the next 10 years, boosting an economy strained by the presence of over 650,000 Syrians fleeing civil war.
The new policy, agreed in principle at a donor conference in London in February, is part of an EU strategy to stem the tide of asylum seekers coming to Europe by improving refugees' conditions in countries neighbouring Syria.
"I’m convinced that this decision will strengthen Jordan's resilience in the face of the refugee crisis," EU Commissioner for European Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations Johannes Hahn said.
Jordan has started to allow Syrian refugees to work in its industrial firms and in export zones where manufacturers are now allowed to have refugees make up 25 percent of their workforce.
"This is an opportunity to transform the Syrian refugee crisis to an economic opportunity,” Planning Minister Imad Fakhouri said.
"We can benefit from them as a surplus labour in the sectors that don’t adversely affect Jordanian employment opportunities.”
The EU has also earmarked soft loans and grants from worth 747 million euros in 2016 and 2017, Fakhouri said.
Jordan has issued 20,000 work permits so far and U.N. sources expect up to 78,000 Syrian refugees will get them shortly many more in coming years.
The EU already has a deal with Turkey, rewarding it financially and with other benefits in return for stemming the flow of migrants from its shores.
MOMBASA, Kenya (Reuters) - Police in Kenya's port city of Mombasa on Thursday shot and killed two men they said were wanted fighters belonging to the Somali al Shabaab group, a senior officer said.
The two, who had been under surveillance for two months, were killed after police raided their hideout in Mishomoroni area, deputy area police chief Walter Abondo said. Another man escaped.
"We have identified the dead suspects...and the two have been linked to terrorism activities in Malindi and Lamu,"  Abondo told reporters, referring to towns north of Mombasa that have witnessed attacks and heightened activity related to al Shabaab.
Police found grenades, bullets, explosive acid and compact discs that had bomb-assembling instructions in the hideout.
The group has said in the past its attacks in Kenya are in retaliation for Kenya sending troops into Somalia in 2011 where they are battling the militants as part of an African Union peacekeeping force.
The al Qaeda-linked group also seeks to overthrow the Western-backed Somali government and impose its own strict interpretation of Islamic law.
KINSHASA (Reuters) - The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights called on Thursday for the release of people he considers political prisoners in Democratic Republic of Congo as the government cracks down on dissent ahead of a contentious electoral period.
Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said in an interview in the capital Kinshasa he would submit to the government in the coming days a list of people he believes should be released immediately.
Political tensions are high in Congo before a scheduled November presidential election. President Joseph Kabila, in power since 2001, is required by the constitution to step down this year but the government says logistical and budgetary constraints make it unrealistic to hold the election on time.
"Until we are convinced that there are merits for their detention, we believe that they need to be released promptly," Zeid said.
The government spokesman and justice minister were not immediately available for comment but have denied in the past that there are any political prisoners in Congo.
Zeid declined to say how many people or what names would be on the list but added that he would consider making the names public if the government did not make swift progress.
In a report last December, the U.N. human rights office in Congo said dozens of political opposition leaders, pro-democracy activists and human rights advocates have been arbitarily detained for political reasons.
Among the names mentioned in the report were Fred Bauma, a young activist arrested in March 2015 at a workshop to encourage youth political participation, on charges of participating in an insurrection. It also includes opposition leader Jean-Claude Muyambo, who was arrested in January 2015 for alleged real estate fraud.
Both are still in prison awaiting court judgments.
Opponents of Kabila accuse him of purposely blocking the election in order to cling to power, but Kabila has repeatedly said delays are owing to financial and logistical challenges.
U.N. experts have warned delays could lead to widespread instability in a country where millions died in regional wars from 1996-2003.
Zeid met senior officials on his four-day visit in Congo, including the prime minister, justice minister and intelligence chief, though he was still waiting to see if he would be received by Kabila before departing the country on Thursday evening.
LUANDA (Reuters) - Angola's government approved a new amnesty law to send home thousands of inmates convicted with prison sentences of up to 12 years as it scrambles to free up overloaded jails and penitentiaries.
The new law passed on Wednesday grants amnesty only to common crimes of prisoners who have completed half of the sentence and will cover national and foreign citizens in Angola.
"The amnesty for all offences punishable by imprisonment of up to 12 years...results from the feeling of providing social opportunities, policies and other rehabilitation staff and family," said Virgilio de Fontes Pereira, president of Parliamentary Group of the ruling party, MPLA.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Eight Turkish soldiers who fled to Greece in a military helicopter after last week's failed coup fear they will be killed if they are sent back home, one of their lawyers said on Thursday.
The men - three majors, three captains and two sergeant majors - landed in the northern Greek border city of Alexandroupolis on Saturday after issuing a distress signal. They were arrested and have sought political asylum.
"They believe that, one way or another, they will lose their lives (in Turkey)," said Vasiliki Ilia Marinaki, a lawyer representing four of the men, as they appeared in court with their faces covered.
"Regardless of whether the death penalty is imposed or not, they believe that in the end they will be killed," she said.
They were convicted on Thursday of entering Greece illegally and were handed a two-month suspended jail sentence. Their asylum requests are being examined and they are to appear before immigration authorities next week for further interviews.
Turkey has branded the men "traitors" and "terrorist elements" and has asked Greece to extradite them. Greece says it will examine their asylum requests quickly.
Turkey abolished capital punishment in 2004 but President Tayyip Erdogan has told crowds of supporters chanting for the death penalty that such demands may be discussed in parliament.
Since the coup attempt crumbled on Saturday, the Turkish government has launched a purge of the armed forces and judiciary, rounding up thousands of people.
The eight men say they did not know a coup was under way and they were obeying orders by their superiors to transport the wounded from the streets to ambulances, according to their lawyers. They decided to flee when their Black Hawk helicopter came under fire by police on the ground.
"They were in a state of emergency and that is why they entered Greek territory," Marinaki said before the ruling.
"In any case, they entered Greece officially, meaning they landed officially at the airport, they disembarked and immediately requested political asylum."
In a joint statement read out by another lawyer, Katerina Dapoudani, the eight reiterated they had "absolutely no involvement" in the coup attempt.
"We apologise for any tumult we caused the Greek state but we had no other choice. We believe in democratic principles and human rights...We are officers of the Turkish army, and we are proud of that," the statement said.
"We served with self-sacrifices all these years and we love our country. We are saddened by the situation prevailing in Turkey."
ST MACDARA'S ISLAND, Ireland (Reuters) - It is said that people don't come home for Christmas to the small western Irish village of Carna, they come back for St. MacDara's Day.
On that day, every July 16, hundreds make a pilgrimage off the coast of Gaelic-speaking Carna to tiny, uninhabited St. MacDara's Island, to a celebration of mass and blessing of boats. It will keep them safe throughout the year, locals believe.
St. MacDara, the patron saint of seafarers, is believed to have built the small church on the island in the sixth century. After mass, the locally crafted boats, known as Galway Hookers,  bow their sails in the direction of the church three times to bless the year ahead.
"It is like a second Christmas half way through the year," said Cliona Ni Chualain, the organizer of MacDara's festival. Her family own a Galway Hooker built in 1895 called 'Blath na hOige', meaning 'Flower of Youth'.
"I've done it since I was a baby and for us it's a family gathering, a community gathering. It's pretty special. And when you're on the island there is this feeling of calmness. I wouldn't be a practicing Catholic but there is something very, very spiritual about it."
'Blath na hOige' and other nautical celebrants can be seen in a Reuters photo essay at reut.rs/2adLaEM
Local fisherman Johnny Cloherty reckons the pilgrimage, one of the few remaining snapshots of Irish yesteryear, has kept him safe for the last 40 years in the Atlantic Ocean, where he harvests seaweed and fishes for lobster and crab.
"It does yeah, definitely," said Cloherty, 58, from nearby Mweenish Island. "I'd be out there in the winter and keep near that island (MacDara's). It's a good thing."
But like many in small rural parts of the country, Cloherty, who starts working at 5 a.m. each day and doesn't finish until 10 p.m., has seen young people leave the area in increasing numbers in search of jobs and a different lifestyle.
There are now only about 30 Galway Hookers left and the days of all 30 trawling the western Irish coastline together are fading with fewer and fewer crew to go around.
"I don't think the young people will be going out fishing. It's sad. Say another 10 years, who will be out there? Nobody knows," Cloherty said.
SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Brazil arrested 10 people on Thursday on suspicion of belonging to a group backing Islamic State (IS) and preparing acts of terrorism during next month's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Justice Minister Alexandre Moraes said.
The presidency said that interim President Michel Temer had called an emergency cabinet meeting. The justice ministry said in a statement that the operation spanned nine states in Brazil.
A court in the southern state of Parana said there were indications that the group was planning to use weapons and guerilla tactics to achieve its aim.
NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - India plans to reconsider the use of pellet guns by security forces when controlling crowds, its interior minister said on Thursday, after widespread resort to the weapons caused multiple casualties and stirred public anger.
Interior Minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers the government would set up a panel to look for an alternative to the pellet gun in response to questions about responses to a recent surge of violence in the Kashmir region.
Dr. Kaisar Ahmad, Principal at Government Medical College Srinagar, told Reuters that over 280 people had been treated for pellet injuries since July 9 when violence broke out in Kashmir during protests sparked by the death of a separatist militant.
In his talk with lawmakers, Singh said one person had been killed from pellet shots in the most recent violence in India's only Muslim-majority state, bringing the total number of deaths from the weapon in Kashmir to seven since 2010.
In addition, 53 had suffered eye injuries in the past six years, Singh said. "It is a fact that people were injured by the use of non-lethal weapons," Singh told lawmakers.
"We will form an expert committee on this that will give its report in two months so that such incidents are not repeated in future."
Amnesty International this week asked the Indian government to prohibit the use of pellet-firing shotguns during street demonstrations, saying that police should look for "less harmful" devices.
Though meant to be a non-lethal weapon, a senior police officer told Reuters that security forces are often forced to use pellet guns at close range to protect themselves against mob attacks.
Insha Malik, a 15-year-old student, was hit in her eyes by pellets when she was watching protests from the window of her house in the South Kashmiri town of Shopian. Her father, Mushtaq Ahmad, says she will never see again.
"She often asks me about her regaining her eyesight. I tell her a lie (to console her) that she will, but it will take time," he said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States is encouraging the Turkish government to maintain democratic institutions after an attempted coup and the international community "will be watching" what happens in the NATO country, the White House said on Thursday.
However, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said at a news briefing, "The United States is not going to micromanage the situation in Turkey."
WARSAW (Reuters) - The World Jewish Congress has demanded an apology from the Polish education minister over her refusal to recognise the complicity of Poles in a 1941 massacre of several hundred Jews at Jedwabne in the country's northeast.
Speaking to private broadcaster TVN24, Education Minister Anna Zalewska refused to openly admit Poles' complicity in the pogrom, saying it was a "historical fact, which has been misunderstood many times, with many very biased opinions".
"The dramatic situation which took place in Jedwabne is controversial. Many historians, distinguished professors, paint a completely different picture," she said.
Before World War Two, Poland was home to Europe's largest Jewish community of some 3.2 million people. Most of them were killed by the Nazi occupiers, who built death camps including Auschwitz and Treblinka on Polish soil.
But a 2000-2004 inquiry of Poland's state Institute of National Remembrance (IPN) found that on July 10, 1941, Nazi occupiers and local inhabitants colluded in a massacre of at least 340 Jews at Jedwabne. Some victims were burned alive after being locked inside a barn.
The revelation disturbed the Poles' belief that, with a few exceptions, they conducted themselves honourably during a vicious war that killed a fifth of the population, and some still refuse to acknowledge the IPN's findings.
The issue of Poles' attitudes to their Jewish neighbours during World War Two is also key for Poland's ruling conservatives, who surged to power in October, partly on a promise to make Poland feel proud of its achievements and win it more respect on the world stage.
Anti-semitism was rife in Poland in the run-up to World War Two. After the war, a pogrom in the town of Kielce and a bout of anti-Semitism in 1968 sponsored by the communist authorities forced many survivors who had stayed in Poland to flee.
In a statement issued on Thursday, the WJC's President Ronald Lauder said Zalewska should "immediately issue clearly worded apologies and retract" the remarks.
"It is disturbing to think that senior government officials in Poland, a country that ... has done so much to advance the cause of Holocaust education and scholarship, now seem to be lurching backward to the days of obfuscation and misinformation," Lauder said.
The WJC's demand for an apology comes on the day Poland's parliament approved the candidacy of Jaroslaw Szarek to head  the IPN, which investigated the killings in Jedwabne.
Speaking to a parliamentary committee earlier this week, Szarek was reported by news agency PAP to have said that Jedwabne was a crime committed by Germans, who "forcibly used a group of Poles in (their) machine of terror".
PARIS (Reuters) - French police carried out counter-terrorism swoop in a region north of Paris on Thursday, police and justice officials said.
The swoop in the Argenteuil area north of the capital city was not directly connected to last week's deadly attack in the southern French costal city of Nice, the justice official said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's ruling AK Party gave a free hand for years to a religious movement led by U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen it now accuses of orchestrating a failed military coup, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek said on Thursday.
Gulen, an ally-turned-arch-enemy of President Tayyip Erdogan, denies any involvement in last Friday's abortive coup. He still has large numbers of supporters in Turkey, including in the judiciary, police and armed forces.
"As soon as President Tayyip Erdogan saw the threat (posed by Gulen's supporters) he gave the necessary response. We had thought they were doing something good for the country," Simsek told reporters in unusually candid comments.
Simsek also said more than 1,000 people in state institutions were still on the run nearly a week after the coup, without elaborating.
TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Libya's U.N.-backed unity government has said that France did not coordinate with it over the presence of French troops in Libya and that it would not compromise on its sovereignty after France announced the deaths of three of its soldiers there.
Special forces teams from countries including France, Britain and the United States are on the ground in western and eastern Libya to fight Islamist militants.
The French have been working alongside forces loyal to eastern Libyan commander Khalifa Haftar who have been battling Islamist militants and other opponents in Benghazi and elsewhere in the east. But Haftar has rejected the U.N.-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) in Tripoli, which is backed by major Western powers - including France.
The GNA's Presidential Council said in a statement released late on Wednesday that it had asked France for an explanation after President Francois Hollande announced the soldiers' deaths during "dangerous intelligence operations".
"The Presidential Council expresses its deep discontent at the French presence in eastern Libya without coordination with the Council, which was declared by the government of France," said the statement from the unity government.
There could be "no compromise" over Libyan sovereignty, the council said in the statement.
Hollande called the helicopter crash an accident, but Benghazi Defence Brigades (BDB), an Islamist-leaning armed group fighting against forces loyal to Haftar, claimed it had shot the helicopter down. A military spokesman from Haftar's forces in eastern Libya said the French had died when their helicopter came down south of Benghazi on Sunday.
The GNA is meant to replace two competing governments that were set up in Tripoli and the east in 2014, both backed by rival alliances of armed groups. But the GNA has acted cautiously and has so far failed to win formal endorsement from the east.
News of the French deaths brought divisions to the surface, with demonstrations against the French presence on Wednesday in the western city of Misrata and in Tripoli. Some of the demonstrators were people displaced from Benghazi by Haftar's campaign.
Libya's Grand Mufti Sadiq Ghoryani, a senior cleric who commands some respect in western Libya and has openly backed the BDB, described the French presence as an "invasion", which he called on all Libyans to resist.
Western powers are hoping the GNA can end the turmoil and conflict that developed after Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi was toppled in an uprising five years ago.
They have said they are ready to help Libya tackle the threat from Islamic State, but the GNA says any assistance must follow its own request.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syria accused Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday of exploiting a failed coup to implement a harsh Islamist agenda that endangers Turkey and its neighbours.
"(Erdogan) used the coup to implement an extremist agenda, the agenda of the Muslim Brotherhood inside Turkey," President Bashar al-Assad told a Cuban news agency, according to a Syrian presidency social media account. "This is dangerous for Turkey and for its neighbouring countries, including Syria."
Relations between Assad and Erdogan, once close allies, soured after the start of Syria's conflict in 2011. Damascus accuses Ankara of fuelling the civil war by supporting Islamist insurgents and allowing foreign jihadists to cross into Syria.
MADRID (Reuters) - King Felipe VI will hold a formal round of talks with Spain's  political parties next week for the fourth time in a seven-month-old power deadlock, his office said on Thursday, as parties struggle to form a coalition administration.
This time around, the king is widely expected to propose acting Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy as a candidate to try and form a government.
Rajoy's centre-right People's Party (PP) won most of the votes in June, but fell 39 seats short of the majority he needed to govern, the second general election in six months to prove inconclusive.
King Felipe will meet the PP, the Socialist Party, the left-wing Unidos Podemos and liberal Ciudadanos on July 28, and the smaller, regional groups, which include Catalan and Basque separatist parties, on July 26 and 27, his schedule showed.
Rajoy on Wednesday edged potentially closer towards forming a government after cutting a deal with his most likely partner, liberal newcomers Ciudadanos, to elect one of his ministers to the post of parliament speaker.
"For my part, I am ready to govern. I'm aware of the responsibility that I have," Rajoy told reporters on Wednesday.
However, such a pact would still fall short of the seats needed to form an administration.
When a party wins fewer than the 176 seats needed to control the lower house of the 350-strong parliament, under Spanish law, the king holds talks with all parties across the political spectrum and proposes a candidate to become prime minister.
The candidate will then submit a viable proposal for government to a confidence vote in parliament in which they must secure an absolute majority to avoid a second vote 48 hours later.
King Felipe has already held three such consultations since the first election in December, of which two resulted in no proposal and one in the nomination of Socialist Party leader Pedro Sanchez, who did not pass the confidence vote that ensued.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China said on Thursday it would leverage its economy to boost defence capabilities, acknowledging shortcomings with long-held aims to inject more market forces into the development of its military.
President Xi Jinping has set great store on military modernisation, including developing an ocean-going "blue water" navy, stealth jets and other advanced technologies to better defend China's growing global interests.
Officials have said China needs to put more emphasis on developing its military-industrial complex to ensure powerful armed forces.
China must use the market to optimise military resource allocation and actively direct economic and social sector investment, the State Council, or cabinet, said in a directive issued by state media.
"Work to resolve and restrict systemic obstacles, structural contradictions and policy problems in the fused development of economic and national defence construction," it said, adding that China would push mixed-ownership reform pilot programmes.
China must deepen civil-military fusion, it said, pointing to problems with "a lag in thinking and shortcomings to top-level plans" and unified administrative efforts.
Beijing's defence budget of 954.35 billion yuan ($142.98 billion) announced in March is just a quarter of the        $573-billion budget of the U.S. Defense Department for 2016, but comes at a time of rising concern over China's intentions in territorial disputes.
China's military plans have shaken nerves around Asia and alarmed Washington, though it says it has no hostile intent and has a genuine need to upgrade outmoded forces to ensure the security of what is now the world's second-largest economy.
Despite efforts to rapidly upgrade military hardware, China faces a major challenge in integrating complex and disparate systems across its command structure.
Xi, who is also chairman of the Central Military Commission which runs the military, has vowed to cut troop numbers, battled entrenched corruption in the ranks, and pushed plans for a joint operational command structure by 2020.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - A Hong Kong court on Thursday found bespectacled teenage democracy activist Joshua Wong guilty of unlawful assembly related to demonstrations that paralysed key arteries of the Chinese-ruled city in 2014.
Wong, 19, was acquitted of inciting others to join a rally that kicked off pro-democracy protests a year and a half ago, when activists scaled a fence in front of a government building complex.
"No matter what the price we need to pay, we will still continue to fight against suppression from the government," Wong, who rose to fame at age 15 for forcing the Hong Kong government to shelve a pro-China national education scheme in schools, told reporters.
The 79-day "Occupy Central" street demonstrations crippled parts of Hong Kong and were one of the boldest populist challenges to Beijing's Communist Party leaders in decades.
Two other student leaders were also charged in connection with the rally. Alex Chow was found guilty of unlawful assembly and Nathan Law was found guilty of inciting others to join. The men said they had not yet decided whether they would appeal.
Before she announced the charges, Magistrate June Cheung Tin-ngan acknowledged that the case was politically sensitive but said the court would not be influenced and was "absolutely not the place to solve political or societal problems".
Amnesty International Hong Kong director Mabel Au released a statement calling the charges vague and saying they smacked of political payback by the authorities.
Sentencing will be on Aug. 15.
Hong Kong is technically part of China but governed by separate laws under a "one country, two systems" framework agreed with the British when it was handed back from colonial rule in 1997.
Relations between the two have frayed in the year and a half since the end of the protests.
At the time, police used tear gas, pepper spray and batons to deter the activists who were demanding - but ultimately failed to obtain - open nominations in the city's next chief executive election.
The charges against the student activists have been seen as a potential flashpoint that could anger more radical protesters or turn the students into political martyrs at a time of increasing friction between the financial hub and Beijing.
There were no immediate protests outside the court but another student activist, Billy Fung, was arrested on Wednesday night for criminal intimidation, disorderly conduct in a public space, criminal damage and attempted forcible entry in connection with disrupting a Hong Kong University council meeting in January, police said.
Fung and others believed there had been political interference in the appointment of the new council chairman.
Last week, the Hong Kong government and the Electoral Affairs Commission sparked anger when they said candidates for September's Legislative Council elections - who this year include pro-democracy and independence activists - must sign a declaration that Hong Kong is an "inalienable" part of China and that advocating and promoting independence could render them ineligible.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A high-level meeting of officials from Russia, the United States and the United Nations is due to take place in Geneva next week to discuss the Syrian crisis, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Thursday, Interfax reported.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Switzerland's FINMA financial watchdog suspects banks being probed about ties to scandal-hit Malaysian state fund 1MDB had lax money-laundering controls, it said on Thursday, but declined to give any details about four open investigations.
"FINMA has indications here that the measures for combating money laundering were insufficient," a spokesman said.
He was responding to news that the Monetary Authority of Singapore had completed inspections of DBS, Standard Chartered and UBS.
Preliminary findings there showed instances of "control failings" in all three banks and "weaknesses in the processes for accepting clients and monitoring transactions".
UBS had no immediate comment.
FINMA in May found Swiss private bank BSI in breach of money laundering regulations in connection with 1MDB. BSI has filed an appeal against that finding.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss authorities acting on a U.S. request have seized three valuable paintings linked to an investigation into scandal-hit Malaysian state fund 1MDB, they said on Thursday.
A spokeswoman for the Federal Office of Justice said the paintings ordered seized were van Gogh's La maison de Vincent à Arles and Monet's Saint-Georges Majeur and Nympheas avec Reflets de Hautes Herbes. She was confirming a report by the Neue Luzerner Zeitung newspaper.
"The operation is not over yet so we will not comment at the moment on the location of the paintings," she said.
The U.S. government on Wednesday filed lawsuits seeking to seize $1 billion in assets bought with money believed to have been stolen from 1MDB.
KUWAIT (Reuters) - A Kuwaiti appeals court on Thursday upheld the death sentence of a man convicted of spying for Iran as part of a cell which Kuwait said was trying to destabilise the Gulf Arab state on behalf of Tehran.
Iran has denied any links to the alleged cell. Kuwait and some other Gulf Arab countries, mostly ruled by Sunnis, have long accused Tehran of seeking to weaken them by infiltrating local Shi'ite communities and stirring up local politics.
The so-called "Abdali cell" was uncovered when security forces raided a farmhouse in Abdali outside Kuwait City last year and found a vast cache of guns and explosives.
Kuwait charged 25 of its nationals – all of them Shi'ites – and an Iranian with spying for Iran and Lebanese Shi'ite Muslim group Hezbollah. Of those charged, 23 were found guilty of various crimes including intent to carry out "hostile acts" against Kuwait and possessing weapons.
Hassan Abdul Hadi Hajiya was sentenced to death in January along with the Iranian citizen charged in absentia. The ruling angered some Kuwaiti Shi'ites, with Shi'ite lawmakers boycotting a parliament session in protest.
Citing his "fugitive" status, the court gave no ruling on the Iranian defendant on Thursday. Iran has said Kuwaiti authorities have not contacted it regarding the Iranian suspect.
The court also ruled as "not guilty" ten defendants who had originally received 15-year prison terms and reduced the sentences of nine others or lessened them to fines.
Zaid Khalaf Anzi, the lawyer for the men whose sentences were reduced, told Reuters that the court had removed the charge of "collaborating with Iran and Hezbollah" but had maintained weapons charges.
Hezbollah is Lebanon's powerful Shi'ite militia.
Relations between Sunnis - who make up to 85 percent of Kuwait's 1.4 million citizens - and the minority Shi'ite community have been mostly amicable.
But the sectarian-tinged rivalry between its massive neighbours Iran and Saudi Arabia, as well as an Islamic State suicide bombing on a Shi'ite mosque in June last year which killed 27 worshippers, have strained that harmony.
Last September, the Iranian embassy issued a rare statement expressing "deep dissatisfaction with the association of the name of Iran" with the case.
DUBLIN (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande said on Thursday he had no precise information on whether French planes were responsible for an air strike that killed about 56 people around the northern Syrian city of Manbij.
Syria's foreign ministry has said Tuesday's attack, which hit the village of Toukhan north of Manbij, was carried out by French forces.
"On the actions of the coalition, I have no exact information on what French planes could have done," Hollande said, referring to a U.S.-led military coalition fighting the militants.
"We are striking in the framework of the coalition and are very careful in our strikes," he told reporters.
France's foreign ministry said in a daily briefing that it "gave no credit to statements made by the regime of Bashar al-Assad" and that an investigation by the coalition would establish if coalition air strikes against Islamic State had killed civilians.
YEREVAN (Reuters) - Police on Wednesday clashed with hundreds of demonstrators who had gathered in a show of support for gunmen holding several hostages in a police station in the Armenian capital Yerevan.
The police fired tear gas and detonated smoke grenades after protestors began throwing stones at them.
A crowd of several hundred had earlier gathered outside the station to express support for the group, which has been holding the hostages since Sunday.
The hostage-takers' main demand is for the release of Jirair Sefilian, an opposition leader whom authorities in the ex-Soviet republic have accused of plotting civil unrest. Sefilian was jailed in June over allegations of illegally possessing weapons.
Wednesday's violence began when demonstrators tried to force their way into the building after the police refused to take in food brought by the demonstrators for the hostage-takers.
The police told Reuters that several policemen had been injured. A Reuters witness also saw a number of injured demonstrators.
Shots were also heard during the clashes, although it was unclear who had fired them or whether anyone had been hit. The situation appeared to be calming down towards late evening as demonstrators dispersed.
One police officer had been killed and two wounded when the armed men seized the police station on Sunday.
Sefilian, a former military commander, has accused President Serzh Sarksyan of mishandling a long-running conflict between pro-Armenian separatists and the breakaway Azeri region of Nagorno-Karabakh.
A Moscow-brokered ceasefire halted four days of violence in
the South Caucasus region on April 5, the worst flare-up in
years, but sporadic shooting persists at night and some deaths
have been reported.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's state of emergency is aimed at averting a possible second military coup, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said on Thursday.
Speaking in the Turkish parliament, Bozdag also said citizens would not feel any change in their lives during the state of emergency and that it would not negatively impact the economy or investments.
President Tayyip Erdogan declared a state of emergency late on Wednesday, saying it would enable the authorities to act more swiftly and effectively in bringing to justice those responsible for last Friday's failed military coup.
WARSAW (Reuters) - The Czech prime minister said he hoped the United States would remain a solid NATO partner whoever won its presidential vote, after U.S. Republican nominee Donald Trump appeared to raise questions about his commitment to defend allies in the alliance.
The New York Times said Trump had told it in an interview that if Russia attacked the Baltic States, he would decide whether to come to their aid only after reviewing whether those nations "have fulfilled their obligations to us".
"NATO is the basis for our security," Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka said in response to a question about Trump's comments. "I expect that also in the United States, whoever wins the presidential election, I hope the United States will remain a solid NATO partner," Sobotka told a news conference in Poland.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin risks personal humiliation if all Russian competitors are banned from the Rio Olympics over doping, as now seems possible; yet the man on whose watch this may happen, Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko, is not being fired.
The reason: Mutko has delivered victories on the sports field for the past decade and a half to match Putin's ambition of restoring national pride, and the Russian leader stands by the people who give him loyal service.
"Putin trusts him. Putin knows you can work with Mutko," said Mikhail Amosov, who had dealings with both men when they worked in the mayor's office in St Petersburg in the 1990s.
Putin's patience with his subordinate is undergoing its  severest test this week after an independent report alleged that Mutko's own deputy was a lynchpin in a program to facilitate doping by covering up athletes' positive test results.
The International Olympic Committee, reacting to the report, said on Tuesday it would consider barring Russia from taking part in the Rio games in any disciplines; a step that would be unprecedented in international sport.
The Court of Arbitration in Sport cleared the path for a blanket ban on Russian competitors going to Rio when it rejected an appeal on Thursday against the earlier exclusion of Russian track-and-field athletes from the games.
Nevertheless, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Mutko was not among sports officials set to lose their jobs because he was "not mentioned in the ... report as a direct perpetrator".
Putin's decision to stand by his minister suggests he values trust and loyalty above narrow definitions of managerial competence.
"Putin does not change and does not surrender 'his' guys," said a second person who worked with both men in the St Petersburg mayor's office and did not want to be identified discussing sensitive topics.
Reuters spoke altogether to six people who worked with Mutko over the years; they described a fast-talking fixer who got things done and had a knack for taking run-down sporting institutions and giving them a touch of success and glamor.
In the early 1990s Putin worked as a deputy mayor in his native St Petersburg, Russia's second city. Mutko was another deputy mayor, responsible for social spending.
Another colleague from the mayor's office said that at the time Mutko did little to distinguish himself from other mid-level bureaucrats.
"He was a hard worker, but did not particularly take initiative," said the former colleague, who did not want to be identified discussing people who are now in positions of power.
While in the mayor's office, Mutko started a project that would define his career. He took under his wing St Petersburg’s Zenit football club. It had fallen on hard times; it had little money and results on the pitch were poor.
Mutko was club president from 1997 until 2003, and in that period he found money, attracted star players and returned Zenit to the top flight of Russian soccer.
Alexei Igonin, Zenit's captain in the early 2000s, said Mutko was a hands-on president. Players did not use agents because they would negotiate their deals directly with Mutko.
"He has charisma and speaks well, while he mixes in the right circles and gets the contacts he needs," said Igonin.
Mutko's success at Zenit caught the eye of Putin, who had become Russian president in 1999.
"To make Zenit a good soccer club was Mutko's project," said Amosov, who was a member of the St Petersburg legislature in the 1990s and has since became an outspoken Putin critic. "Putin appreciated his performance and took him to Moscow, a move Mutko never desired. It seems to me Putin decided that Mutko can do a lot for Russian sport in general, after doing a lot for Zenit."
In 2005, Mutko became head of the Russian Football Union, and set about making changes in the same energetic way he had in St Petersburg.
Vyacheslav Koloskov, the man he replaced, recalled how Mutko took away the company car, the office and pension that he was still enjoying at the union's expense.
Afterwards, said Koloskov, "I met him at different committees and conferences, but he never needed my help and advice, as he always believed he knew everything".
At the football union, Mutko laid the groundwork for Russia's successful bid to host the 2018 soccer World cup.
In 2008, Putin made Mutko sports minister, calculating he would bring the success he had achieved in soccer to other sports. In this higher-profile job, Mutko made some gaffes.
Government auditors queried how he was able to spend 4,800 Canadian dollars ($3,680) on breakfasts at his hotel during the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. He said he was assigned the hotel by organizers, so had no control over the costs.
In the same year, Mutko was mocked by many Russians on social media for a speech to FIFA, world soccer's governing body, in thickly-accented and halting English.
For Mutko's 57th birthday last year, Putin ribbed him about his language skills by publicly presenting him with an English phrase-book.
Still, Mutko's stock stayed high at home, largely because Russia's international sporting performances improved dramatically under his stewardship. Those successes boosted Putin's agenda of a strong, powerful and resurgent Russia.
The high point was the 2014 Winter Olympics in the Russian resort of Sochi, when Russia topped the medal table and won 13 gold medals. Four years earlier in Vancouver, they had come 11th  and picked up only three golds.
That success was achieved, on the evidence of this week's report commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency, because Russian sporting officials set out to win at any cost, even if it meant cheating.
The report alleged Mutko's ministry directed a system for covering up positive doping test results. This involved entering false results into computer records to make them appear clean or, during the Sochi Games, physically replacing "dirty" urine samples with clean urine stockpiled in advance.
The report, commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency, said it had email evidence that on one occasion, Mutko personally ordered a cover up of a positive result for a foreign footballer playing in the Russian league.
On the evidence of the former head of Russia's anti-doping laboratory, who testified for the report, it is "inconceivable Minister Mutko was not aware of the doping cover up scheme", the report said.
Mutko's office did not respond to a request for comment submitted by Reuters. Russia's R-Sport news agency quoted Mutko as saying there were no allegations directed at him, nor could there be, and he was devoted to fighting doping.
A source who worked closely with Mutko since he became sports minister offered an explanation of how he is holding on.
"I think it's something to do with the political system in Russia. When your people are being attacked, Putin will protect those people whom he appointed and trusted for so long."
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia's opposition said on Thursday it will mobilise the public for a "political action" if Prime Minister Najib Razak does not immediately go on leave of absence.
Pakatan Harapan, the opposition coalition, also asked Najib to convene an emergency parliamentary sitting to provide a full explanation, following Wednesday's revelations by U.S. prosecutors that more than $3.5 billion was diverted from state-fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad.
The U.S. civil lawsuits are seeking to seize $1 billion in assets they said were tied to money stolen from the fund, which was founded by Najib.
ZURICH (Reuters) - UBS is working with authorities investigating banks' ties to scandal-hit Malaysian state fund 1MDB having reported some deals which it had concerns about, the Swiss bank said on Thursday.
"In this case, UBS self-reported the suspicious transactions and is working closely with regulators to address this matter," it said in a statement.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore earlier said it had completed inspections of DBS, Standard Chartered and UBS and that preliminary findings had shown instances of "control failings" in all three banks and "weaknesses in the processes for accepting clients and monitoring transactions".
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said on Thursday that Malaysia takes good governance seriously, after U.S. prosecutors filed lawsuits linked to scandal-plagued state-owned fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB).
"It needs to be clear that this is a civil not criminal procedure," Najib told reporters on the sidelines of an event in Kuala Lumpur.
"And we don't want to come to any conclusions until that process is done. We have to establish the facts first. I want to say categorically that we are serious about good governance."
Najib said the government would give its full cooperation to international investigations of the 1MDB case.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Like his father, Ismael Freitas spent long days cultivating fruit in Brazil's Amazon rainforest on land that was not officially his own.
One of hundreds of thousands of small-scale farmers in South America's biggest country without owning a title deed, Freitas lived in fear of being displaced by wealthy developers.
The 30-year-old also worried about finances. Without being able to offer his land as collateral, he couldn't get a loan from the bank.
But everything changed six months ago, when Freitas was given a title deed to his farm under a government programme to improve land rights in the Amazon.
"When I got title I started to see a future and new horizons," Freitas told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in a phone interview from his wooden house in northern Brazil.
"Title brought me some security - it's a good feeling to know the land is yours," Freitas said of his farm some 100 kms (62 miles) from Manaus, the Amazon's largest city.
"My plan is to cultivate melons and bananas on a larger scale," he said.
Almost half the land in Brazil is owned by just 1 percent of the population, according to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
Inequality in property ownership, a lack of access to land for the poor and insecure tenure are fuelling deforestation, poverty, migration and conflict, USAID said.
In an effort to address some of these problems, the Brazilian government launched a programme in 2009 to give small-scale farmers title deeds.
Since then, about 20,000 title deeds have been issued to farmers in the Amazon under the Legal Land Program, said Larissa Nunes, a Brazilian government spokeswoman.
"Some families wait for decades for the opportunity to regularize their areas and finally become owners of their lands," Nunes said in an email to the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"The people feel safer and more confident to work on the land."
By the end of 2015, nearly 12 million hectares of land - an area about the size of Cuba - had been titled under the programme, according to Brazilian government data.
However the programme is running behind schedule for its goal of issuing 150,000 property titles for 55 million hectares of land by 2017, according to the Climate Policy Initiative (CPI), a research group which advises the Brazilian government.
But farmers like Freitas say the state is moving in the right direction given the challenges of surveying territory in the remote, vast Amazon region.
Freitas said it took three years to get formal ownership of the land which was passed to him by his father.
Government officials had to visit his community to meet residents, collect documents and take measurements and photographs of the land where people had been farming.
Most of the territory farmers in his village had been cultivating were public areas, he said.
These "vacant lands" which essentially do not belong to anyone account for more than 20 percent of Brazil's total territory, according to the CPI.
Getting formal ownership papers to farmers in remote areas is not easy especially in a country without a central land registry.
Instead, there are competing registries run by different municipalities and states, along with the federal government.
About one quarter of the land in the Amazon, territory larger than France and Spain combined, is subject to overlapping ownership claims, said Juliano Assuncao, an economics professor at Pontificia Universidade Catolica in Rio de Janeiro.
"This is why the Legal Land Program is so important," Assuncao told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
It creates a "clearing house" where competing claimants to a tract of land can bring their evidence of ownership, he said.
Federal government officials then examine the facts and assign a deed based on who has the strongest case.
The process involving federal officials makes it easier for small farmers to argue the case for title to lands they have worked on for years or generations, Freitas said.
Local land registries in the Amazon, in contrast, are seen as more vulnerable to corruption.
Land rights campaigners say powerful agribusiness interests are known to bribe local land registry officials to secure farm ownership, displacing local residents in a process known as "grilagem".
Nunes, the government spokeswoman, agreed that corrupt land deals have been a problem in the Amazon. Officials are working to address it as part of the Legal Land Program, she said.
Formal ownership by small farmers also makes it easier to protect the Amazon's environment as poachers and illegal loggers thrive in areas where no-one holds responsibility for the land, Assuncao said.
As a condition for participating in the programme, Freitas said he has to protect most of the virgin rainforest on his land.
He hopes the programme is expanded so other farmers can benefit.
But a series of corruption scandals in Brazil, including the suspension of President Dilma Rouseff over alleged budget accounting irregularities, have pushed Amazon land rights down the political agenda, analysts said.
"There is so much uncertainty in the federal government right now," said Assuncao, the economist.
"One of my fears is that this programme will receive less attention."
BUCHAREST (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Maria was only nine when her father sent her to work on the streets of Romania's second largest city, Cluj.
At an age when she should have been playing, she was instead being sexually abused and raped by older men.
The abuse lasted for three years before the police picked her up and persuaded her to testify against her parents, who are serving a nine-year sentence each, for human trafficking.
Although she missed out on years of schooling, Maria, now 16, managed to catch up with her classmates and recently graduated from secondary school. But the scars remain.
Three years after being given shelter by a centre for victims of human trafficking, Maria started having nightmares.
"She was waking up crying," said Iana Matei, director of Reaching Out Romania, which runs three centres for trafficking victims. "I was relieved. We could finally talk about all those suppressed memories and abuses."
In 2014, more than two thirds of human trafficking victims under 18 had been trafficked by a loved one or a trusted acquaintance, according to Romania's anti-trafficking agency.
"Parents borrow money from loan sharks and when they can't pay their debts, they give their child to their lenders," Matei told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Children know that if they run away, the loan sharks will kill their mother, so when they are picked up by police, they say their exploiter is a close relative, so they don't create problems."
Hundreds of Romanian children are trafficked to European cities where they are forced to beg, steal or sell sex by criminal gangs, anti-trafficking experts say.
In 2013 and 2014, Romania was identified by Europol as one of the main countries of origin for European victims of human trafficking.
Each year around 700 victims are officially reported, although the real figure could be much higher with many victims to afraid to come forward, experts say.
In Romania, many rescued victims are not properly cared for, either ending up in orphanages where they are still at risk of abuse or back with their families who are often responsible for their exploitation in the first place, social workers say.
"We have four cases of girls being raped in orphanages and when one of them reported it to the supervisor, the woman said she could do nothing because nobody would believe her," said Monica Boseff, director at the Open Door Foundation, which runs the only emergency shelter for trafficking victims in Romania.
Charity workers say children are often trafficked from inside their orphanages with state employees playing a crucial role within trafficking rings. As a result, some children run away to live rough on the streets.
Those who remain in orphanages do not receive the care and counselling needed to overcome their trauma, and are often put together with other children with very different needs, critics of the system say.
Officials admit shortcomings in the welfare system.
"There is a general problem with the Romanian welfare system, which is overwhelmed as there is a lack of specialised personnel due to the limited funds available," said George Adrian Petrescu, head of the Romanian anti-trafficking agency.
There are only a handful of charity-run shelters for trafficking victims in Romania, a country of 20 million people. Although built five years ago, the only state-run shelter never opened due to a lack of staff.
Only a few children are referred to shelters run by charity organisations which offer counselling, legal assistance and even private tutoring.
"I have two girls that finished school top of their class, I have other two girls that are now studying law and working part-time," Matei said.
The 2015 U.S. State Department Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report recommended that the Romanian government allocate public funds for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) helping victims, and provide funding to staff a new government shelter among other measures.
Petrescu from the Romanian anti-trafficking agency hopes a law to allow the state to fund NGOs will be passed soon, but adds it may not be the top priority for the Ministry of Justice.
The TIP report also called for more prosecutions of traffickers, better medical care and psychological counselling for victims, and for an anti-trafficking hotline to be staffed at evenings and weekends.
The free helpline set up by the anti-trafficking agency only operates Monday to Friday, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
"It is not an ideal situation. After the economic crisis, the agency was restructured and currently there is only one person working at the helpline," Petrescu said, adding six more staff were needed.
For Matei, the greatest priority is to change the law regarding victims of human trafficking and social protection.
At present, the two laws contradict each other, which makes it almost impossible for trafficked children to be taken away from their parents that abused and exploited them, she said.
"These children can recover, but the state isn't interested in doing that. They are the broken toys that we throw away," Matei said. "We are dealing with a generation of victims."
COLOMBO (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - High temperatures and unseasonal rains have combined to effectively scuttle Sri Lanka's efforts to curb dengue, experts say.
The island is facing yet another outbreak this summer, with infections more than doubling in June to 3,421 cases, up from 1,477 cases during the same period in 2015.
The epidemiology unit of the Ministry of Health said that 23,000 infections had been reported countrywide up to the second week of July. In comparison only 29,000 cases were reported for the whole of 2015.
The outbreak follows heavy rains in May that left large parts of the island inundated for days. Just before the rains, the country witnessed an extended period of above-average temperatures, with the Meteorology Department confirming some areas were experiencing temperatures between 2 to 3 degrees Celsius higher than usual.
Changing weather patterns, as a result of climate change, are likely to make the battle to control dengue increasingly difficult in years to come, officials say.
“Changing rain patterns contribute to extend the period of dengue virus transmission due to more (mosquito) breeding. Temperature also plays a pivotal role by contributing to high level of (mosquito) activity,” said Faseeha Noordeen, a senior lecturer and virologist at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Peradeniya.
“These collectively contribute to extended periods of transmission and outbreaks,” she said.
The capital Colombo and the surrounding Western Province have been the hardest hit areas, with close to 50 percent of the infections reported from the province, which is also the country’s most densely populated area.
Of the 29,000 infections reported so far, 7,400 have been from Colombo.
During the May floods, large areas of Colombo were underwater for several days and, prior to the rains, the district also recorded high temperatures.
“It is obvious that changing rain patterns contribute to spread and expansion of dengue in the island,” Noordeen said.
As during past outbreaks, government authorities have heightened eradication and awareness programmes.
Members of the armed forces have been tasked with clean up operations and public officials in high-risk areas in Colombo have warned of strict action, including legal cases, against those who permit standing water on their property, which allows mosquitoes to breed.
“People are negligent, and allow breeding grounds to remain without cleaning them up. They need to be much more aware of the mosquitoes spreading soon after rains,” said Paba Palihawadana, the head of the Health Ministry’s epidemiology unit.
Over five days in late June, over 36,000 people in Colombo alone were warned to clean up their properties. Of 67,055 properties inspected in the city during that period, 16,565 were found to be high-risk areas for mosquito breeding.
“Colombo is the most vulnerable area,” said Hasitha Tissera, coordinator of the National Dengue Control Programme.
Noordeen said that it was difficult to control the spread of dengue since the eggs of dengue-carrying mosquitoes survive even in the smallest of water sources.
“The battle will be a tough one for a tropical island that is battling with changing weather patterns resulting in extended heavy rains and floods,” she said.
She said that instead of reacting to outbreaks, health authorities should study conditions that led to previous epidemics and devise a concerted plan that builds awareness and cleans up breeding areas throughout the year.
“Regular community clean-ups are a must in every village and township,” she said. And unless a comprehensive control plan “is put together and sustained, it’s going to be tough.”
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korean President Park Geun-hye said on Thursday the move to deploy a THAAD missile defence system was "inevitable" because of a growing threat from North Korea and that division in the South over its deployment is what Pyongyang seeks.
North Korea's launch of three ballistic missiles on Tuesday was the latest evidence that the anti-missile system is needed,  Park said at a National Security Council meeting.
This month's announcement by South Korea and the United States to deploy a Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) unit with the U.S. military in a rural melon-farming county in the South triggered loud protests from residents worried about possible negative health and environmental impacts.
"If we continue to be divisive and social confusion grows about a decision we had no choice but to make to protect the country and the lives of our people, it would be exactly where North Korea wants us to go," Park said, according to her office.
North Korea said on Wednesday it had conducted a ballistic missile test that simulated preemptive strikes against South Korean ports and airfields used by the U.S. military, likely referring to the three missiles fired on Tuesday.
The missiles flew between 500 kms and 600 kms (300-360 miles) into the sea off its east coast and could have hit anywhere in South Korea if the North intended, the South's military said.
Many residents of Seongju, about 200 kms (120 miles) from the capital Seoul, joined by opposition members of parliament and civic groups, have demanded the government scrap the decision to site the THAAD battery there.
Some residents bearing South Korean flags and anti-THAAD banners held a rally in central Seoul on Thursday to demonstrate against the decision. Roughly 2,000 people joined the rally, according to police and organisers, including the governor of Seongju who shaved his head in protest.
That follows a raucous standoff last week between residents and the country's prime minister, who was pelted with eggs and plastic bottles and trapped inside a bus for several hours when he visited the county to explain the THAAD decision. Some residents blamed outside leftist activists for the incident.
Park said North Korea could stage an act of aggression at any time, including possibly a fifth nuclear test or cyber attack against the networks of national and financial institutions.
The North has also increased military equipment near the land and sea border separating the countries, she told the security meeting.
The two Koreas remain technically at war under a truce that ended fighting in the 1950-53 Korean War.
Tension on the Korean peninsula has been high since North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test in January and followed that with a satellite launch and a string of test launches of various missiles.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Less than three weeks before a contentious constitutional referendum, Thailand's military government is scrambling to drum up support, broadcasting songs and television programmes in a vigorous public relations campaign.
The military, which took power from an elected government in May 2014, says its draft constitution will ensure stability in a country rocked by political turmoil and military takeovers for more than a decade.
But critics, including major political parties, say the charter would give the military too much power over elected governments, and would not resolve fundamental differences between populist political forces and the military-dominated establishment.
"Everyone has the same rights" and "Come together to the referendum ... Thai folks have fun", run the lyrics of a patriotic ballad the government released this month.
It is one of several songs about the Aug. 7 vote, including one sanctioned by the Election Commission, aired on public broadcasters while members of a junta-appointed panel tour the country to highlight the merits of a constitution they helped draft.
"This is the last phase before the referendum, so we want to inform people through television in the mornings and evenings," government spokesman Major General Sansern Kaewkamnerd told Reuters.
The military government has promised to hold an election next year whether the draft constitution is approved or not, but its rejection would inevitably raise questions about the government's road map.
The government has said if the draft is rejected, it would hold an election under one of 19 previous constitutions.
Southeast Asia's second-largest economy has struggled to expand since the army seized power, with exports and domestic demand both weak.
The government has clamped down on dissent since it took over and has been particularly intent on preventing criticism of the draft charter, introducing a law that sets a 10-year jail term for campaigning ahead of the referendum.
Opponents of the draft, from student and civil society groups to political parties, have called for open debate on the constitution, and some have called for the referendum to be postponed.
"We want the government to open a space for the public to express their thoughts," said lecturer and analyst Gothom Arya, speaking on behalf of one group, the Platform of Concerned Citizens.
"Those for and against the draft should be able to air their views," he told Reuters.
Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwan said on Thursday he had ordered provincial governors to allow forums for debate, while adding that the referendum would not be postponed.
For more than a decade, Thailand has been divided between rival camps, one led by former populist premier Thaksin Shinawatra, who was toppled in a 2006 coup and later went into self-exile.
Ranged against him is the royalist and military establishment, which accuses Thaksin of poisoning politics with nepotism and corruption, charges he denies.
There are about 50 million eligible voters. The Election Commission has said it expects an 80 percent turnout.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Ted Cruz refused to endorse Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump at the party's convention on Wednesday, drawing angry jeers from Trump supporters and shattering the facade of party unity that has been carefully built up in Cleveland this week.
Anti-Trump Republican delegate Ken Cuccinelli told Reuters he escorted Cruz's wife, Heidi, off the floor of the Republican National Convention out of concern for her safety following her husband's speech.
For the third day in a row, what was supposed to be a carefully scripted show of unity was thrown into turmoil by unexpected events that have raised questions about whether the party can unite around Trump to defeat the presumptive Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, in the Nov. 8 election.
Cruz, who came in a distant second to Trump in the race for the Republican nomination, stopped short of endorsing Trump after a bitter and personal campaign and mentioned him only once, drawing boos and repeated chants of "We want Trump."
Cuccinelli, a former Virginia attorney general, said: "When the speech ended, there was an ugly crowd behind us." A witness said one person shouted: "Goldman Sachs" at Heidi Cruz in reference to her employment at the investment bank.
Cruz began his speech saying: "I want to congratulate Donald Trump on winning the nomination last night."
Later in the speech, he urged: "Please, don’t stay home in November. Stand, and speak, and vote your conscience, vote for candidates up and down the ticket who you trust to defend our freedom and to be faithful to the Constitution."
Some critics saw the appeal for people to vote their conscience as a vote of no-confidence in Trump. Republican strategist Eric Fehrnstrom, who is not affiliated with any campaign, tweeted: "'Vote your conscience' was the rallying cry of the Never Trump movement. For Cruz to bring that message into #RNC hall was a colossal error."
"It's taken me about 30 minutes to calm down and stop shaking with anger," said Erik Layton, an alternate delegate from California who had shouted: "Go home" at Cruz after his speech. "I just don't know why Cruz did this. It baffles my mind."
Trump, 70, a businessman and former reality TV star who has never been elected to public office, made his entrance to the convention hall near the end of Cruz's speech, applauding Cruz's remarks but, by his appearance, drawing attention away from his former rival.
In a tweet after the convention adjourned for the night, Trump wrote that Cruz broke a promise they both had made to endorse the party's White House choice.
"Wow, Ted Cruz got booed off the stage, didn't honor the pledge! I saw his speech two hours early but let him speak anyway. No big deal!" Trump wrote.
During the campaign for the party's nomination, Trump insulted Cruz's wife's looks and suggested the Texan's father was with John F. Kennedy’s assassin just before the president was shot in Dallas in 1963.
Cruz, 45, who as a Tea Party conservative in the U.S. Senate angered many mainstream Republicans in Congress and spearheaded tactics that led to a government shutdown over the federal budget, called Trump a “serial philanderer” and a “narcissist” during the campaign.
A Cruz adviser who asked to remain anonymous said Cruz anticipated a backlash from the crowd if he did not endorse Trump.
"We knew people were going to be mad if he didn’t say the words, but he congratulated him and called for unity behind common values. He expected people to not be thrilled about this," the adviser said.
Trump won the party's nomination on Tuesday with 1,725 delegates, followed by Cruz with 475 delegates.
Several delegates were outraged by the reaction to Cruz’s speech, saying it could undermine Trump's support among Republicans who had supported the senator from Texas.
“I thought it was shameful,” said Manette Merrill, a Cruz delegate from Washington state, adding she was now confident she would not vote for Trump in November. “They talk about unity ... and then they act like that. That is not going to get us to unify,” she said.
The drama did not prevent Trump's vice presidential running mate, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, from receiving a raucous welcome inside the convention hall to end the day's events.
Accepting the convention's nomination, Pence spoke of Trump as a friend of the working class who has persevered in the business world. "He's a doer in a game usually reserved for talkers," Pence said.
Trump briefly joined Pence on the stage, shook his hand, patted him on the back, gave a thumbs-up and, in a signal to the crowd, pointed at Pence. But the Cruz speech, the latest in a series of disruptions, overshadowed any show of solidarity.
Cruz swiftly became one of the top trending topics on Twitter and Facebook immediately following his speech, with about 157 tweets mentioning his official Twitter handle @tedcruz posted every minute. The overall immediate sentiment was slightly more positive than negative, according to social media analytics firm Zoomph.
The most mentioned moment on Twitter on Wednesday was the crowd's reaction to Trump's arrival at the conclusion of Cruz's speech. Cruz was also the most mentioned speaker of the night, followed by Pence. Cruz was the most searched speaker on Google.
In a speech minutes after Cruz finished, former U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich veered from his prepared text to defend Cruz.
“I think you misunderstood one paragraph that Ted Cruz, who is a superb orator, said. And I just want to point it out to you. Ted Cruz said you can vote your conscience for anyone who will uphold the Constitution. In this election, there is only one candidate who will uphold the Constitution,” Gingrich said.
"To paraphrase Ted Cruz, if you want to protect the Constitution of the United States, the only possible candidate this fall is the Trump-Pence Republican ticket,” Gingrich said.
The convention, due to end on Thursday with Trump's speech accepting the party's nomination, has been marked by turmoil from Day One. On Monday, chaos erupted when Trump opponents inside his party stormed out of the room and others chanted to vent frustration over a failed attempt to force a vote in opposition to Trump.
On Tuesday, similarities between some phrases in a speech by Trump's wife, Melania, and a 2008 speech by first lady Michelle Obama triggered accusations of plagiarism, putting the Trump campaign on the defensive. A staff writer for the Trump Organization on Wednesday took responsibility for the "chaos" over the speech.
Eminent Republicans such as the party's previous two presidential nominees, Mitt Romney and Senator John McCain, and members of the Bush family that gave the party its last two presidents have stayed away from Cleveland in a show of displeasure at Trump and his rhetoric against illegal immigration and free trade.
Opponents brand Trump a bigot with his calls to temporarily ban the entry of Muslims and to build a border wall with Mexico to keep out illegal immigrants.
Underscoring the problems Trump has faced with U.S. allies abroad, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told Reuters on Wednesday that Trump threatened U.S. and world security with his "politics of fear and isolation."
YANGON (Reuters) - Myanmar government leader Aung San Suu Kyi has accepted an invitation from President Barack Obama to visit the United States, the government said on Thursday, in what would be her first trip to America since she won an election in November.
Suu Kyi planned to travel at a "mutually convenient time", a Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokeswoman said. Another government source said the trip was likely to coincide with the U.N. General Assembly session in New York in September.
Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, swept to power in a historic election in November after decades of campaigning against military rule.
It took over the running of the country after a transition from semi-civilian rule in April.
"She accepted President Obama's invitation to visit the U.S. before his presidency ends," said Aye Aye Soe, a spokeswoman at the foreign ministry, which is run by Suu Kyi.
Visiting U.S. Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes delivered Obama's invitation during a  meeting with Suu Kyi in the capital, Naypyitaw, on Wednesday.
Suu Kyi, 71, is barred from becoming president by the constitution drafted under the previous regime, because her two sons do not have Myanmar citizenship.
She is instead foreign minister and has also assumed the newly created post of state counsellor. She is in overall charge of running the government.
The U.S. embassy in the city of Yangon did not comment.
Suu Kyi, who spent years under house arrest during military rule, visited the United States as the leader of the opposition in September 2012.
The U.N. General Assembly session in New York is scheduled from Sept. 13 to Sept. 26. Obama will leave office in January after a November election.
PARIS (Reuters) - Long under fire for the economy's slow recovery, French President Francois Hollande looked his chirpiest in months in his traditional Bastille Day TV interview.
Nine months from a presidential election, unemployment was showing signs it may at last start falling, and France had hosted the Euro soccer championship without a major security scare.
Hollande brushed aside questions about the cost of his hairdresser which had pre-occupied French journalists over past days, and took the opportunity to announce that the state of emergency in place since November's Paris killings would be lifted before the end of July.
Before the day was out, the dark clouds were back over his re-election hopes. The truck attack that night on a crowd of revellers in Nice, southeast France, inevitably shifted the political focus back to security.
After the attack that killed 84 people and was claimed by Islamic State, opposition politicians were jockeying to sound tougher than each other on security. Their remarks stood in stark contrast to the restraint and unity showed last year, after gun and bomb attacks against Paris entertainment venues in November and against a satirical newspaper in January.
The state of emergency, with reinforced police powers, is back in place for another six months.
"Before there was still a collective reflex to rally behind the government, but now the need to hold someone to account has destroyed that," political analyst Thomas Guenole said.
The broader public has hardly been more sympathetic. A poll shows just a third consider the government up to the task of defending the nation against terrorism threats, compared to around half after the two attacks of 2015.
On Monday, Prime Minister Manuel Valls was jeered by crowds at a commemoration for victims in Nice.
"This theme could sweep aside all others" heading towards the two-round presidential election in April and May, said political analyst Jerome Fourquet with pollsters Ifop.
The issue has already totally eclipsed debate over a contested labour reform that had been the focus of the political class for months, Fourquet said.
On Wednesday, those reforms aimed at making hiring and firing easier were due to make their final passage through parliament, but news bulletins all but ignored the subject which for months has dominated headlines with related strikes, violent protests, and a rebellion within the ruling Socialist party.
Fourquet said one natural beneficiary of the focus on security was conservative former president Nicolas Sarkozy, who has long cultivated a no-nonsense image in that area, though detractors point out he presided over cuts in police and armed forces numbers as Hollande's predecessor in 2007-2012.
Ahead of the attack in Nice, Sarkozy was seeing modest poll gains even though his outsized personality grates on many voters.
An uplift for Sarkozy is bad news for his main rival for the conservative ticket, Alain Juppe, a former prime minister who has been leading in the polls.
Nine years older than either Sarkozy or Hollande at 70, much less divisive than Sarkozy and widely seen as a steady pair of hands if otherwise uninspiring, Juppe is not naturally strong on security, leaving him scrambling to sound tough.
"We should have done more, better and faster," Juppe said on BFM TV, calling for extremist preachers to be jailed or deported and deploying more police while beefing up intelligence services.
Juppe, Sarkozy and other likely presidential candidates belonging to the conservative Republicains party are under growing pressure to distinguish themselves as they prepare to square off in a primary election in November.
Far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen could also stand to gain considerably from the new focus on security, according to political analyst Frederic Dabi, also with pollsters Ifop.
Her party says requests for membership are flooding in. Dabi said its traditional hard line on security, immigration and national identity played well with many voters after the latest attack by 31-year-old Tunisian Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel.
While polls predict Le Pen could be one of the two candidates facing each other in a runoff in the two-round presidential election - possibly at Hollande's expense - she has still been seen as very unlikely to win in the second round.
The run-off could be decided by the question of who voters dislike most.
An Ifop poll asking which candidate voters absolutely do not want to see in the Elysee Palace presidential residence, published this week but conducted before the Nice attack, shows just how much disaffection there is in France with the entire political class.
A staggering 73 percent of voters do not want Hollande re-elected "under any circumstances". Sarkozy is next on 66 percent, but Le Pen is a close third on 63, an indication of how difficult it could be for her to recruit more support regardless of the security situation.
Even Britain's decision last month to quit the European Union is seen as a double-edged sword for her as the bad economic consequences for the UK become more obvious and temper enthusiasm for her call for France to take the same route.
Hollande has yet to say whether he would seek re-election despite hinting he might in his Bastille Day interview, but has conditioned a bid on unemployment starting to fall, which does not look impossible in the months ahead.
That may not even matter now though, if concerns about security do not subside.
That seems unlikely. The latest attack is the most indiscriminate to date - outside the capital where the previous two took place, and focused not on journalists, Jews or youth as the other attacks were.
"The number and type of victims, families come for July 14, the fact that it was in the provinces and the way the attack was carried out with a truck driven into the crowd all means that more than ever everybody is concerned," Fourquet said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan declared a state of emergency on Wednesday as he widened a crackdown against thousands of members of the security forces, judiciary, civil service and academia after a failed military coup.
Erdogan said the state of emergency, lasting three months, would allow his government to take swift and decisive measures against supporters of the coup and was allowed under the constitution.
Emergency rule, which would take effect after it is published in Turkey's official gazette, would allow the president and cabinet to bypass parliament in passing new laws and to limit or suspend rights and freedoms as they deem necessary.
Erdogan made the announcement during a live television broadcast in front of his government ministers after a nearly five-hour meeting of the National Security Council.
"The aim of the declaration of the state of emergency is to be able to take fast and effective steps against this threat against democracy, the rule of law and rights and freedoms of our citizens," Erdogan said.
He also pointedly rebuffed criticism from Western   governments that have accused him of going too far in efforts to neutralise suspected opponents. About 60,000 soldiers, police, judges, civil servants and teachers have been suspended, detained or are under investigation since Friday's military coup attempt.
The failed putsch and the purge that followed have unsettled the country of 80 million, a NATO member bordering Syria, Iraq and Iran and Western ally in the fight against Islamic State.
Before announcing the state of emergency, Erdogan said the sweep was not yet over and that he believed foreign countries might have been involved in the attempt to overthrow him.
Speaking through an interpreter in an interview with broadcaster Al Jazeera, Erdogan dismissed suggestions that he was becoming authoritarian and that Turkish democracy was under threat.
"We will remain within a democratic parliamentary system. We will never step away from it," he said.
Academics were banned from travelling abroad on Wednesday in what a Turkish official said was a temporary measure to prevent the risk of alleged coup plotters at universities from fleeing. TRT state television said 95 academics had been removed from their posts at Istanbul University alone.
Erdogan blames a network of followers of an exiled U.S.-based cleric, Fethullah Gulen, for Friday night's attempted coup, in which more than 230 people were killed and hundreds more wounded as soldiers commandeered fighter jets, military helicopters and tanks in a failed effort to overthrow the government.
Erdogan, an Islamist who has led Turkey as prime minister or president since 2003, has vowed to clean the "virus" responsible for the plot from all state institutions.
Around a third of Turkey's roughly 360 serving generals have been detained since the coup attempt, a second senior official said, with 99 charged pending trial and 14 more being held.
The Defence Ministry is investigating all military judges and prosecutors, and has suspended 262 of them, broadcaster NTV reported, while 900 police officers in the capital, Ankara, were also suspended on Wednesday. The purge also extended to civil servants in the environment and sports ministries.
Turkey's Western allies have expressed solidarity with the government over the coup attempt, but have also voiced increasing alarm at the scale and swiftness of the response, urging it to adhere to democratic values.
On Tuesday, authorities shut media outlets deemed to be supportive of Gulen. More than 20,000 teachers and administrators have been suspended from the Education Ministry. One hundred intelligence officials, 492 people from the Religious Affairs Directorate, 257 at the prime minister's office and 300 at the Energy Ministry have been removed from duty.
Those moves come after the detention of more than 6,000 members of the armed forces - from foot soldiers to commanders - and the suspension of close to 3,000 judges and prosecutors. About 8,000 police officers, including in Ankara and the biggest city Istanbul, have also been removed.
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein on Tuesday voiced "serious alarm" at the mass suspension of judges and prosecutors and urged Turkey to allow independent monitors to visit those who have been detained.
One of the ruling party's most senior figures, Mustafa Sentop, on Wednesday called for the restoration of the death penalty for crimes aimed at changing the constitutional order. But it was not immediately clear if Erdogan would back the move urged by his ally in comments to broadcaster NTV.
Erdogan's spokesman said on Tuesday the government was preparing a formal request to the United States for the extradition of Gulen. U.S. President Barack Obama discussed the status of Gulen in a telephone call with Erdogan on Tuesday, the White House said, urging Ankara to show restraint as it pursues those responsible for the failed coup.
Gulen, 75, whose religious movement blends conservative Islamic values with a pro-Western outlook, lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, but has a network of supporters within Turkey. He has condemned the abortive coup and denied any role in it.
Gulen spokesman Alp Aslandogan told Reuters Television on Wednesday that the Turkish government had arrested and persecuted the cleric's supporters in Turkey since 2014, after his followers in the judiciary and police helped lead a corruption probe into senior politicians and business people close to Erdogan.
But efforts to repress Gulen's followers have mushroomed since the thwarted coup, said Aslandogan, who spoke outside Gulen's home in the Pocono Mountains.
"This is resembling the pre-genocidal periods in fascist Europe. These are very alarming signs and we are very concerned," he said.
Washington has said it would consider Gulen's extradition only if clear evidence was provided, prompting Turkish Prime Minister Yildirim to accuse the United States of double standards in its fight against terrorism.
Erdogan struck a more conciliatory note in his comments to Al Jazeera, saying he did not want to link the issue of U.S. use of Turkey's Incirlik airbase with Ankara's request for Gulen's extradition.
The airbase is key to the U.S.-led fight against Islamic State.
"We need to be more sensitive. Relations between our countries are based on interests, not feelings. We are strategic partners," Erdogan said.
Any extradition request would face legal and political hurdles in the United States. Even if approved by a judge, it would still have to go to Secretary of State John Kerry, who can consider non-legal factors, such as humanitarian arguments.
The threat of prolonged instability in Turkey, which had not seen a violent military coup for more than three decades, has shaken investors' confidence.
The lira fell to a record low after ratings agency Standard & Poor's cut Turkey's foreign currency credit rating, citing the fragmentation of the political landscape and saying it expected a period of heightened unpredictability.
The Istanbul stock index is down 9.5 percent so far this week, its worst three-day performance since 2013.
Seeking to prevent damage to the economy, Erdogan said in his televised address that his government would not abandon fiscal discipline and that it was not facing liquidity problems.
VIENNA (Reuters) - Austria has summoned Turkey's ambassador to explain Ankara's links to demonstrations in Austria in support of Turkey's president Tayyip Erdogan, who is leading a crackdown after a failed coup, Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz on Thursday.
Kurz told ORF radio that the ambassador would be asked whether Turkish officials encouraged thousands of people in Austria to take to the streets over recent days in support of Erdogan after the attempt to unseat him.
"We want to clarify... which direction Turkey is going to take," Kurz said in an interview broadcast by ORF on Thursday.
"Secondly, we have evidence that the demonstrations for Erdogan that have taken place in Vienna were called for directly from Turkey... and that, of course, is absolutely untenable and we want to protest against that," he said.
Erdogan declared a state of emergency on Wednesday as he widened a crackdown against thousands of members of the security forces, judiciary, civil service and academia after the failed military coup.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - A three-month state of emergency in Turkey, which authorities say will enable them to take swift, effective action against those responsible for last week's failed military coup, came into force on Thursday after it was published in the Official Gazette.
The state of emergency began at 1 a.m. (2200 GMT on Wednesday).
President Tayyip Erdogan, who has launched mass purges of state institutions since the July 15 coup attempt, said the emergency was fully in line with Turkey's constitution and did not violate the rule of law or basic freedoms of citizens.
The state of emergency will allow the president and cabinet to bypass parliament in passing new laws and to limit or suspend rights and freedoms as they deem necessary.
Erdogan announced the emergency in a live television broadcast in front of government ministers after a meeting of the National Security Council that lasted nearly five hours on Wednesday.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who gained popularity partly by bashing wealthy donors and vowing to fund his own campaign, raised nearly as much money in June as the campaign of Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, according to federal reports filed on Wednesday.
In the first month in which the Trump campaign’s fundraising machine officially cranked up, Trump raised nearly $20 million (15 million pounds) from individual donors other than himself, as well as $2 million from donors to his joint fundraising committee with the Republican Party.
The reports also showed that Trump converted the nearly $50 million in loans he made to his campaign into donations. He has $20 million in cash in the bank.
Clinton's campaign brought in $24 million from individual donors during the same period, and a further $11.5 million from donors to her joint fundraising committee.
Trump’s new money dash was also evident at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland this week, where two Trump Super PACs - each duelling for supremacy and boasting a roster of marquee donors - held private events.
Those in the donor class backing Trump include investor Foster Friess and casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, who associates say is considering pouring as much as $100 million into helping Trump get elected.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Wednesday urged Turkey to restrict a state of emergency imposed after a failed coup attempt to only the truly necessary length of time, and to end the measure as quickly as possible.
Steinmeier issued a statement late on Wednesday in response to the declaration of emergency rule, urging the Turkish government to maintain both the rule of law and a sense of proportionality in its response to the coup attempt.
"The declaration of a state of emergency makes it clear once again: the attempted putsch is having a profound effect on Turkish politics and society," Steinmeier said.
He said Germany was continuing to call on Turkey to exercise restraint in its response to the thwarted coup.
"Only provable involvement in illegal acts, not suspected political leanings, should trigger governmental action," Steinmeier said.
"It's also critical that the declaration of emergency be restricted to only the necessary duration and then be ended as quickly as possible," he said.
Steinmeier said such an approach was in the interest of Turkey itself, since anything else would tear the country apart and weaken Turkey both internally and externally.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese Muslims should promote social harmony and resist illegal religious "infiltration", President Xi Jinping said while visiting a mosque in a heavily-Muslim part of western China, state media reported on Thursday.
There are about 21 million Muslims in China, ranging from the Uighur people who live in the violence-prone far western region of Xinjiang to the Hui, many of whom are highly Sinified, and other ethnic groups.
China's constitution guarantees religious freedom, but rights groups say the officially atheist ruling Communist Party seeks to restrict religious practice, especially for Muslims. China strongly denies such charges.
Touring Ningxia, home to about 2.4 million mostly Hui Muslims, Xi said Chinese Muslims should practice their religion as part of Chinese society and "carry forward the patriotic tradition", the official China Daily said.
"Religions in our country, the endemic ones and those from abroad, have become deeply embedded in the Chinese civilisation, whose history covers more than 5,000 years," Xi said while visiting a mosque in Ningxia's regional capital Yinchuan.
"They will continue to flourish while taking root here."
Muslims must "resolutely oppose illegal religious infiltration activities" and promote religious and social harmony, Xi said, the official Xinhua news agency added, without elaborating.
The Chinese government says it has been facing a rise in Islamic extremism, especially in Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in violence in recent years.
Beijing blames foreign extremists for stirring up tensions, particularly in Xinjiang, where it says it faces a determined campaign by extremist separatists who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
But many rights groups and exiles doubt the existence of a coherent extremist group in Xinjiang, and say Uighur anger at repressive Chinese policies is more to blame for the unrest.
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - The leader of a Malaysian opposition party called on Prime Minister Najib Razak to step down on Thursday after U.S. prosecutors filed lawsuits linked to scandal-plagued state-owned fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB).
Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, the president of the People's Justice Party (PKR), said the government should also push for an independent commission to investigate graft claims outlined by the civil suits filed in California on Wednesday.
"I believe the Malaysian people want Dato' Sri Najib to go on leave as prime minister so as not to create the perception of abuse of power or process to halt or hinder a full and transparent investigation on this very serious issue," Wan Azizah said in a statement.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Ted Cruz's wife was escorted off the floor of the Republican convention on Wednesday night as delegates booed her husband's refusal to endorse Donald Trump in his speech to delegates.
Republican Ken Cuccinelli, the former attorney general of Virginia and a supporter of Cruz, who finished a distant second to Trump in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, told Reuters he escorted Heidi Cruz off the convention floor for her own safety.
NEW YORK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Looking to change public perception about migrants in the Netherlands, two journalists have launched a Smartphone app that dramatizes the asylum-seeking process and lets users ask tough questions of would-be refugees.
With "The Detailed Interview" app, users select questions for actors portraying migrants from Syria and Guinea as they explain why they fled their homelands.
Users then play the role of government officers who decide if the migrants are allowed in or rejected.
The scripts used by the actors are based on actual migrant interviews.
Amsterdam-based journalists Ludo Hekman and Klaas van Dijken said they wanted to counter perceptions that it was easy to become a refugee in the Netherlands, which has seen a rise in far-right, anti-immigration sentiment.
"If you read some newspapers in the Netherlands, they really feed on the fear of admitting refugees too easily," Hekman told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"We found out that it's really hard, and parts of the procedure to become European are really intense," he said.
Would-be refugees must undergo at least two interviews by government officials, according to the Netherlands' Ministry of Security and Justice website.
Some 46,000 people applied for asylum in the 12 months leading up to April 2016, according to European Union statistics. The process can take several years.
More than 10,000 people have used the app since it launched in April, said Hekman.
One character portrayed on the app is 21-year-old Rifat, who claims he fled Syria's civil war and traveled through Turkey and Greece.
He says he was never asked to fight in Syria but, when pressed by the app's questions, admits he enlisted in a rebel group.
"I lied," he says.
While app users can decide the fate of the imaginary Rifat, the character was based on an actual case that remains undecided. There are suspicions the person on which Rifat was based may have been involved in war crimes, according to the app.
Videos are shown in English, with interactive subtitles in Dutch. English subtitles are planned for September, Hekman said.
YANGON (Reuters) - Five villagers were killed by soldiers during an interrogation in Myanmar's northern Shan State, a senior general said on Wednesday, in a rare admission by Myanmar's still-powerful military which promised to prosecute the perpetrators.
Witnesses have told Reuters that soldiers rounded up dozens of men in the remote village of Mong Yaw, in an area riven by a long-running ethnic insurgency, on June 25 and led five men away. The bodies of the five were found in a shallow grave a few days later.
Lieutenant General Mya Tun Oo, one of Myanmar's highest-ranking officers and the chief of military intelligence, told a news conference in Yangon that a court martial was under way and that the verdict would be made public.
The military also pledged help for the victims' families.
"The court martial found that they violated the rules, failing to follow certain procedures, that led to the death of the victims during the interrogation," said Mya Tun Oo.
He did not say how many soldiers were being tried or what charges they faced.
Such a public admission of wrongdoing by soldiers from a top general in the presence of the international media is unprecedented. The armed forces have occasionally acknowledged troops have been at fault in previous incidents, but have usually done so in vaguely worded official statements.
The military's response this time suggests a heightened sensitivity about the army's image as it tries to present itself as a responsible partner in Myanmar's democratic transition and seeks closer ties with its Western counterparts.
The military is forging a delicate partnership with Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, who swept to power after a historic election in November. The armed forces, which ruled the former Burma for nearly half a century, still control three security ministries and a quarter of the seats in parliament.
"Every soldier has to follow rules and regulations while investigating prisoners or detainees regardless of whether they are related to insurgents or regular citizens," said Mya Tun Oo, adding that the military would take action against the perpetrators according to the law.
"The military will take the best care and support of the victims' families," said Mya Tun Oo, without giving the details.
Myanmar's armed forces have often been accused by human rights groups and Western governments of abuses during decades of conflict with ethnic armed groups in the country's lawless border zones.
Campaigners such as Amnesty International say it is extremely rare for troops to be held accountable for alleged abuses, or for such allegations to be investigated transparently.
"After the incident in Mong Yaw we ordered an investigation commission with three members, led by the vice-commander of the northeast command, very quickly," said Mya Tun Oo.
"They visited the area, met with the families of the victims and supported them according to their needs."
Villagers said the military visited Mong Yaw and gave each family 300,000 kyat ($250) "as a gesture of sympathy".
The deaths of two other men in a separate incident in the same area were also being investigated.
"They were shot dead when riding a motorbike near the military convoy, but we don't know who shot them. We don't know who they are," said Mya Tun Oo.
Villagers have said the two men were brothers and that their bodies were found in a ditch close to where the other five victims were buried.
Mong Yaw lies in a remote corner of northern Shan State, where thousands of people have been displaced by decades of fighting between the military and ethnic insurgents. Last year the military lost hundreds of men in a bid to re-take a rebel-held region bordering China.
Local human rights activists helped exhume all seven bodies in Mong Yaw and record their injuries. Campaigners expressed surprise that the military was taking the allegations seriously, saying they had spent decades documenting similar incidents.
Despite the latest admission, fear and mistrust of the military that has festered for years in places such as Mong Yaw is unlikely to disappear quickly.
On July 11, Major General Kyaw Kyaw Soe had invited the bereaved families to an army facility near the northern city of Lashio. Reuters reporters trying to attend were ordered by soldiers to leave.
"He said he would find justice for us," said Aye Lu, an 18-year-old woman whose husband was among the five killed, after the meeting. "I don't believe him."
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday announced a three-month state of emergency, saying this would enable the authorities to take swift and effective action against those responsible for last weekend's failed military coup.
Erdogan, who has launched mass purges of state institutions  since the July 15 coup attempt by a faction within the military, said the move was in line with Turkey's constitution and did not violate the rule of law or basic freedoms of Turkish citizens.
"The aim of the declaration of the state of emergency is to be able to take fast and effective steps against this threat against democracy, the rule of law and rights and freedoms of our citizens," Erdogan said.
The president accuses a U.S.-based Muslim cleric, Fethullah Gulen, of being behind the coup. Gulen, who has many followers in Turkey and abroad, denies the charge.
Erdogan made his announcement in a live television broadcast late on Wednesday evening in front of assembled government ministers after a meeting of the National Security Council that lasted nearly five hours.
The state of emergency, which comes into force after it is published in Turkey's official gazette, will allow the president and cabinet to bypass parliament in passing new laws and to limit or suspend rights and freedoms as they deem necessary.
Erdogan said regional governors would receive increased powers under the state of emergency, adding that the armed forces would work in line with government orders.
"Europe does not have the right to criticise this decision," Erdogan added, apparently anticipating expressions of concern from the European Union, which has become increasingly critical of Turkey's rights record and has urged restraint as Ankara purges its state institutions since the abortive coup.
Turkey is an EU candidate country, though it is not expected to join for many years if ever.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The purge of thousands in the Turkish military in the aftermath of an attempted coup has not weakened the country's military, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday.
"Turkey has a large armed force, professional armed forces and ... I am certain they will continue as a committed and strong NATO ally," Stoltenberg told Reuters in an interview on the sidelines of a meeting of defence officials from more than 30 countries involved in the coalition against Islamic State.
Some 60,000 soldiers, police, judges, civil servants and teachers have been suspended or detained since the military coup attempt, increasing tension across the country of 80 million that borders Syria's chaos and is a Western ally against Islamic State.
About a third of Turkey's roughly 360 serving generals have been detained since the failed coup on July 15.
The armed forces last used force to stage a successful coup in Turkey more than 30 years ago.
On Wednesday, Dutch, German and Canadian foreign ministers expressed concern about the scale of the crackdown by Turkish authorities and called on Turkey to respect the rule of law.
Stoltenberg said he expected Turkey's reaction to the coup attempt to be proportionate and in line with the values of NATO, adding that there were no talks to reconsider Turkey's membership in the military alliance.
"It is important for all of us that Turkey continue to be a strong NATO ally because Turkey is on the border of all the instability, all the violence we have seen in Iraq and Syria," Stoltenberg said.
Speaking with reporters after the defence ministers meeting at Joint Base Andrews outside Washington, U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said the meeting focused on what happens after the defeat of Islamic State in terms of stabilization and reconstruction.
Stoltenberg said there was a greater need to share intelligence in general within NATO and specifically in respect to the fight against the militant group Islamic State.
"Partly we need ... to collect more intelligence and partly we need to have better routines, better mechanisms for sharing intelligence as soon as possible," Stoltenberg said.
UNITED NATIONS (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Nations grappling with conflict and discord may be too absorbed by their own troubles to tackle goals set out by the United Nations to fight poverty, inequality and other global woes, a top U.N. official said on Wednesday.
For those nations, the U.N.'s ambitious set of global objectives will have to serve as a beacon to follow when they are able, said Assistant U.N. Secretary-General Thomas Gass after a U.N. forum to assess the goals' progress.
The 193 U.N. member nations last September adopted 17 global goals addressing issues from education to the environment to be implemented over the next 15 years.
Representatives of 22 of those nations met in recent days to report on their progress on the goals, which U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon at the time of their adoption described as a "to-do" list.
Gass, who was heavily involved in creation of the goals, compared them to a beacon for nations to see and adjust their course to follow.
"There are countries right now that are going through storms where frankly they don't want to think about what's 15 years down the line," Gass told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "They want to see how they are going to solve their problems of today and tomorrow.
"So as a global community, we need to make sure that when they've gone through this hard weather, they check where the beacon is and adapt," he said.
A list published last week showed most of the world's richest countries failed to earn top marks on their progress reaching the goals, with only Germany and Britain in the top 10.
Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Switzerland topped the ranking by the U.N. Sustainable Development Solutions Network and Bertelsmann Stiftung, a German foundation.
At the bottom were Central African Republic and Liberia. Russia ranked 47th, Brazil 52nd, Venezuela 62nd and India was 110th, it said.
Public awareness remains a challenge, said Sarah Mendelson, U.S. representative to the U.N. Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), who worked on what she called a "hard-fought victory" to include the issue of human trafficking in the global goals.
"We now face another uphill battle, educating the public about the sustainable development goals," she told a forum on  supply chains and forced labour on Tuesday.
Mendelson and officials from about a dozen other countries met to launch what they have entitled the Dignity Partnership to end human trafficking.
They said they would like more businesses and governments to collaborate and to see companies disclose their efforts to keep slave labour out of their supply chains.
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The top United Nations human rights official said on Wednesday the conviction in Paraguay of 11 landless farmers accused of being involved in deadly clashes with police four years ago was "deeply troubling".
In June 2012, 17 people, including six police officers, were killed as security forces moved in to evict about 60 farmers who were occupying 2,000 hectares of land in Curuguaty, eastern Paraguay.
Last week, a court in Asuncion sentenced 11 farmers to up to 35 years in jail on charges ranging from homicide to criminal association over the confrontation, which highlighted tensions over land rights in the South American country.
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said he was concerned by reports from rights groups that the investigation into the incident was one-sided and marred by irregularities.
"I'm also deeply concerned by the fact that, up to now, the deaths of 11 peasants, killed in the same incident, have not been investigated by Paraguayan authorities, nor have the allegations that some were summarily executed after being subjected to torture and other human rights violations," Zeid said in a statement.
Farmers in Paraguay have long demanded a redistribution of agricultural land, 80 percent of which is held by just 2.5 percent of the population, according to a 2008 census.
Zeid also urged the authorities to "guarantee that victims have access to justice" and repeated calls for an independent and impartial probe.
Campaign groups say inequalities in land distribution in Paraguay stem back to the dictatorship of General Alfredo Stroessner, who gave away titles to about eight million hectares of state-owned land to members of the military and political elite.
Zeid said there was urgent need for Paraguay to speed up land reform as land ownership remains one of the most "critical" issues in the country and a major source of social tensions.
FORT MEADE, Md. (Reuters) - A Yemeni man facing charges relating to the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States had his bid to fire his court-appointed lawyers denied again by a judge on Wednesday at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Suspected al Qaeda training camp leader Walid bin Attash, who could face the death penalty if convicted, has been fighting to replace his lead attorneys in the case since October. The judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, denied the request for a third time, saying bin Attash failed to show good cause for the move.
"Any attorney that approaches me ... I might lose control over myself," bin Attash said through an interpreter at the military tribunal. He said he had not met with his legal team in five months.
"They begin feeling so powerful that they can do whatever they want," said bin Attash, who has been held at the Guantanamo prison for almost 10 years.
His lead defence attorneys, Cheryl Bormann and Michael Schwartz, kept their distance by opting to sit at the back of the courtroom.
Bormann, a Chicago lawyer who has represented bin Attash since 2011, said in February that years of isolated detention and torture had turned him into "a damaged human being" who no longer trusted her.
She blamed the breakdown in attorney-client trust largely on the U.S. government, which she accused of secretly recording their meetings and seizing legal documents from bin Attash's cell. She also cited an 18-month delay caused by an FBI investigation of defence attorneys.
Pohl said that bin Attash may choose to represent himself. Bin Attash is expected to make a decision on Thursday on representing himself.
Bin Attash and his four co-defendants are charged with hijacking, terrorism, war crimes and conspiring with militants who slammed hijacked airliners into New York's World Trade Center, the Pentagon outside Washington and a Pennsylvania field. Almost 3,000 people were killed in the 2001 attacks.
Nearly 60 motions are scheduled for the two-week hearing. They include questions about prisoner communications and what evidence the prosecution will provide about the years the men spent at secret Central Intelligence Agency prisons.
The hearing was monitored over closed-circuit television at a press room at Fort Meade, outside Washington.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States on Wednesday blacklisted three members of al Qaeda living in Iran, saying they had helped the Islamist militant group on the battlefield, with finance and logistics, and in mediating with Iranian authorities.
Iran has held several al Qaeda high-ranking members and lower-level militants since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington, though U.S. officials say the precise conditions of their confinement are unclear.
Faisal Jassim Mohammed al-Amri al-Khalidi, a 31-year-old Saudi national, led an al Qaeda brigade and was serving as the group's military commission chief in May 2015, Treasury said, describing him as "part of a new generation" of al Qaeda operatives. As of 2011, Khalidi liaised between al Qaeda associates, central council members, and leaders within the Pakistani Taliban.
Yisra Muhammad Ibrahim Bayumi, 48 and an Egyptian national, mediated with Iranian authorities as of early 2015, Treasury said, and helped al Qaeda members living in Iran.
Abu Bakr Muhammad Muhammad Ghumayn, 35, had control of the group's financing and organisation inside Iran as of 2015, Treasury said. Ghumayn, an Algerian, was previously based in Pakistan.
Al Qaeda and Iran's government have a complex and sometimes tense relationship, according to documents seized from Osama bin Laden's hideout in Pakistan and made public. At times Iranian authorities promised to release and may have actually released al Qaeda figures, but one of bin Laden's sons who had been held in Iran, Saad, reportedly was killed in 2009.
Iran's Shi'ite Muslim rulers deny cooperating with al Qaeda, a Sunni group. Iranian officials call al Qaeda a terrorist group, and Iranian security forces periodically report the arrest of al Qaeda members.
An analysis by the U.S. Military Academy at West Point published in 2012 concluded that while it was obvious the al Qaeda-Iran relationship was antagonistic, the rationale behind Iran's detention of al Qaeda militants for years "without due process" was unclear.
Treasury's statement did not make clear what conditions the men were living under in Iran. Bayumi has been in Iran since 2014, Treasury said, but it did not say how long the other two men had lived there. Bayumi had been able to secure funds from Syria for al Qaeda members and facilitate al Qaeda funds transfers in 2015, Treasury said, suggesting he had some freedom to operate since moving to Iran.
Wednesday's measure freezes any property of the three men in the United States, and bars U.S. citizens from dealing with them.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The battlefield momentum in Iraq and Syria has shifted against Islamic State, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday, but the international community must now also confront the challenge of stabilizing newly liberated areas.
"The momentum has shifted," Kerry told an international conference to raise funds for Iraq at a critical juncture in the military campaign. "The new challenge that we face is securing and aiding for the recovery of a liberated area."
Lise Grande, the United Nations' humanitarian coordinator for Iraq, warned that military victories will prove transient if the needs of Iraqis displaced by the conflict are not addressed.
"The military campaign will have achieved a great short-term success, but perhaps little else of enduring impact," she said.
The officials spoke as defense and foreign ministers gathered to also agree on next steps in the two-year-long fight against Islamic State, in particular the militant group's bastion in Mosul.
The Iraq donor conference raised more than $2.1 billion in aid, State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement. The United Nations has said that, under a worst-case scenario, it could take $2 billion in relief and stabilization funds to deal just with the civilian impact of the Mosul battle and its aftermath.
With the early stages of the Mosul campaign underway, plans are still being finalized to provide urgent humanitarian aid and restore basic services and security for residents and as many as 2.4 million displaced people.
"Most of our conversations today ... were about what happens after the defeat of ISIL," U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said after a separate meeting of about 30 defense ministers at Joint Base Andrews outside Washington, using an acronym for Islamic State.
"The biggest strategic concern of the defense ministers here was for the stabilization and reconstruction ... and making sure our planning and execution of that is in time for the execution of the military aspect," Carter said.
Some of the defense ministers indicated their countries' intent to contribute more to the military campaign, he said.
Wednesday's meetings will be followed by a joint session of foreign and defense chiefs on Thursday to discuss the broader fight against Islamic State not only in Syria and Iraq, but also in Libya and globally.
A spate of recent attacks claimed or apparently inspired by Islamic State, such as a truck attack in Nice, France, that killed 84 people last week, formed a grim backdrop to the Washington meetings.
"We are nowhere near the defeat of Daesh. It's an octopus, it's a snake with many heads," said Dutch Foreign Minister Bert Koenders, using a derogatory Arabic term for the group.
Around Mosul, the United Nations is preparing for what it says will be the largest humanitarian relief operation so far this year as terrified people stream out of the path of the advancing Iraqi military and flee from the city itself. They will need shelter, food and water, and sanitation for three to 12 months, depending on the extent of the city's destruction.
The U.N. estimates that under the worst scenario, more than one million people could be displaced from Mosul and another 830,000 from a populated corridor south of the city, adding to the burden of caring for 3.5 million Iraqis already displaced.
U.S. representative to the United Nations Samantha Power told donors they must pony up the money now.
"Commitments made today must be met, promptly and in full,"  she said. "In one recent humanitarian campaign after another, we have seen multiple donors over-promise and under-deliver."
Mosul, which Islamic State seized from a collapsing Iraqi army in June 2014, is Iraq's second biggest city and home to a combustible mixture of Sunni Arabs, Kurds, Turkmen and others.
Kerry cautioned that the Shi'ite-led Iraqi government, which the country's Sunni Muslim minority views with distrust, must embrace political reconciliation if Islamic State is to be defeated.
"To eliminate Daesh from Iraq permanently, the government of Baghdad has got to be viewed as responsive to the needs of the people in all parts of the country," he said.
At a press conference later, Kerry praised the government of Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, but said: "We would like to see some reforms moving faster."
Officials in Erbil, the capital of Iraq's autonomous Kurdish region, criticized the coalition for excluding the Kurds from the Washington gathering. Masrour Barzani, head of the regional security council, called it "a travesty" on Twitter.
Although Iraqi and U.S. officials have not announced a timetable for moving on Mosul, a senior Baghdad-based diplomat said Abadi wants to advance the start of the campaign to October after the seizure of Falluja from Islamic State last month.
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - A little over a year since Argentina's spy agency was shackled in the wake of the mysterious death of a star prosecutor, President Mauricio Macri is backing its quest for broader powers that critics fear will revive unfettered domestic spying.
Argentina's spies are pressing Macri to remove restrictions imposed by former president Cristina Fernandez after public investigator Alberto Nisman was found dead in his home in 2015, a source in the judiciary said.
Fernandez accused a rogue agent of playing a role in Nisman's murder, which came days after he accused her of covering up Iran's alleged role in the 1994 bombing of a Jewish center in Buenos Aires. Fernandez overhauled the country's spy agency in response, branding it the Federal Intelligence Service, or AFI.
But despite the new name, the agency is starting to look more like the former Intelligence Secretariat, with agents purged by Fernandez moving back into old posts since Macri took power in December, said an intelligence source who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
In May, Macri issued a decree that lifted controls Fernandez had placed on the spy agency's funding, allowing it once again to spend most of its budget without any oversight.
Macri's centre government has since floated the possibility of giving back to AFI control of wiretaps that have been run by the judiciary since last year - raising red flags with Argentines fearful of a return to its sinister role in the country's past.
The old spy agency helped the military dictatorship of 1976-1983 target Marxists, labour unions and students in the country's "dirty war," when thousands disappeared. Successive democratically elected governments were widely believed to keep using it to snoop on opponents.
Macri, who has promised to uproot crime, declined to comment. But advocates of allowing the spy agency to conduct wiretaps again say it would help speed up criminal investigations amid a recent spate of kidnappings and extortion.
"I'm worried" about AFI regaining wiretapping powers, said Juan Rodriguez, the director of the court-controlled department DCC that now conducts all legal taps of some 3,000 phone lines in Argentina.
Wiretaps today are mostly used to track suspected drug traffickers, Rodriguez said, and must be authorized by a judge and registered for possible scrutiny.
Standing before DCC's 17 wiretapping devices, Rodriguez said "this is transparent ... we want to end the dark period that this system once represented."
A source close to Macri said it was a myth that the country's spies are sinister and powerful, and that AFI is too weak in its current state to operate effectively.
Ruling party lawmaker Emilio Monzo has said that Macri was studying the reform and would likely propose a bill by the end of the year if he deems it a good idea.
Monzo declined requests for an interview.
Macri has not said why he lifted oversight rules on AFI's budget, but a second intelligence source said the decision aimed to improve AFI's workflow by cutting out unnecessary bureaucracy.
But critics point to corruption cases in recent decades that have traced money used for bribes to the spy agency, which was assigned a $100 million budget for 2016.
The murder of Nisman has still not been solved.
(Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Justice filed lawsuits on Wednesday seeking to seize dozens of properties tied to Malaysian state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), saying that over $3.5 billion was misappropriated from the institution.
The lawsuits, filed in Los Angeles, seek to seize assets "involved in and traceable to an international conspiracy to launder money misappropriated from 1MDB".
The lawsuits said the alleged offences were committed over a four-year period and involved multiple individuals, including Malaysian officials and their associates, who conspired to fraudulently divert billions of dollars from 1MDB.
None of the lawsuits named Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak.
But they named Riza Aziz, his step-son, as a "relevant individual" in the case. They also named Malaysian financier Low Taek Jho, or Jho Low, and Abu Dhabi government officials Khadem al-Qubaisi and Mohamed Ahmed Badawy Al-Husseiny.
The U.S. lawsuits said funds misappropriated from 1MDB were transferred to the co-founder of Petrosaudi, a company that had a joint venture with 1MDB, and thereafter to a high-ranking official in the Malaysian government it identified only as "Malaysian Official One".
The assets involved in the case include penthouses, mansions, artwork and even a private jet.
"That misappropriation occurred in multiple phases over the course of several years," the lawsuits said.
"The misappropriated funds were then used to purchase the Defendant Asset, as well as to fund the co-conspirators' lavish lifestyles, including purchases of artwork and jewelry, the acquisition of luxury real estate, the payment of gambling expenses, and the hiring of musicians and celebrities to attend parties," it added.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced a civil action on Wednesday seeking the recovery of more than $1 billion worth of assets linked to a conspiracy to launder funds taken from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund.
"The Department of Justice will not allow the American financial system to be used as a conduit for corruption," Lynch told a news conference in announcing the civil suit, described as the largest single action every brought under the Justice Department's Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative.
"Corrupt officials around the world should make no mistake that we will be relentless in our efforts to deny them the proceeds of their crimes," Lynch said.
KIEV (Reuters) - An award-winning journalist working for the online investigative website Ukrayinska Pravda was killed by a car bomb in central Kiev early on Wednesday morning, in what President Petro Poroshenko said was an attempt to destabilise Ukraine.
Pavel Sheremet, a Belarussian known for his criticism of his home country's leadership and his friendship with the slain Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, was driving to work in the car of the website's owner when it was blown up.
The killing was a throwback to the days of violence against journalists that Ukraine, under a pro-Western leadership since the 2014 Maidan protests, hoped to have shed.
"It seems to me this was done with one aim in mind - to destabilise the situation in the country, possibly ahead of further events," Poroshenko said in televised comments.
He has asked experts from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation to join the murder investigation in the interests of "maximum transparency."
Earlier, senior Interior Ministry officials said they could not rule out Russian involvement in the murder.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: "The murder of a Russian citizen and journalist in Ukraine is a very serious cause for concern in the Kremlin."
Sheremet, who was given Russian citizenship after fleeing political persecution in Belarus, had told Reuters in October that he no longer felt comfortable visiting Moscow, where he worked for twelve years as a TV journalist.
"I'm threatened often and given hints. Every time I go to Moscow, it's like I'm in a minefield," he said in an interview.
He also said Ukraine needed strong, independent media to counter the influence of outlets controlled by the country's powerful business tycoons.
"Now the problem of freedom of speech and objective journalism is becoming again a serious issue," he said.
"As far as internal politics is concerned, I can see oligarchic games again, black PR, the use of media to settle scores and solve political problems."
Sevgil Musayeva-Borovyk, the editor-in-chief of Ukrayinska Pravda, which has made its name exposing corruption, called him "very brave".
It was not clear whether the bomb had been set off by remote control or a timer.
Sheremet's friend Nemtsov, a vocal critic of the Kremlin,  had been working on a report examining the Russian military's role in the Ukraine crisis when he was shot dead in central Moscow last year. Sheremet led tributes at his memorial service.
"The last time we met was at the funeral of Boris Nemtsov, and of course I couldn't have known that a similar thing would happen to Pavel," Anatoly Lebedko, leader of the Belarussian opposition party United Civil Party, told Reuters.
In 2002, Sheremet won a journalism prize from the Organization for Security and Co‑operation in Europe (OSCE) for his reporting on human rights violations in Belarus, including the disappearances of opposition politicians and journalists.
The OSCE called on Wednesday for action to address the safety of journalists in Ukraine.
The founder of Ukrayinska Pravda, Georgiy Gongadze, was an investigative journalist who was murdered 16 years ago, his decapitated body discovered in a forest outside Kiev.
The incident helped to precipitate the Orange Revolution of 2004/05, which resulted in an election re-run and the victory of an opposition presidential candidate.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Two members of Turkey's constitutional court were arrested on Wednesday, private broadcaster NTV reported, as purges in the judiciary, military, civil service and education widen in the aftermath of a failed coup.
About 60,000 soldiers, police, judges, civil servants and teachers have been suspended, detained or are under investigation since Friday's attempted coup staged by a faction within the armed forces.
The two constitutional court members were among a group of 113 officials from the judiciary formally arrested on Wednesday, NTV said. Formal charges were also brought against President Tayyip Erdogan's chief aide-de-camp, it said.
The failed putsch and the ensuing purges have seriously unsettled Turkey, a country of nearly 80 million which borders Syria and is a Western ally against Islamic State.
MILAN (Reuters) - The bodies of four Italian victims of last week's truck attack in the French resort of Nice were flown to an airport in the northern city of Milan in a military plane on Wednesday.
Five Italians were among 84 people who died when a Tunisian man drove a truck into crowds celebrating Bastille Day last Thursday in an attack that was claimed by Islamic State.
Italian authorities did not say which of the victims were brought back on Wednesday to Milan's Malpensa airport, where   President Sergio Mattarella met their relatives.
The four coffins, wrapped in Italy's tricolour flag, were blessed by a priest and placed in hearses before being taken for separate funeral services, video footage released by the president's office showed.
Italian newspaper La Repubblica said the fifth victim's body was still in Nice where her husband was looking after their daughter, who was injured in the attack.
TIRANA (Reuters) - Albania's governing and opposition parties reached a compromise on sweeping judicial reform on Wednesday, ending deadlock that risked blocking the Balkan country's move towards European Union accession talks.
The reform package is aimed at overhauling the judiciary to make it independent, capable of fighting endemic corruption and ending impunity for politicians.
The deal followed 18 months of talks with European Union and U.S. officials. The United States had warned of "severe, long-lasting" consequences from Washington if politicians failed to pass the reform.
Parliament will vote on the reform on Thursday.
A candidate to join the EU since June 2014, NATO member Albania needs to do more about crime and corruption, public administration and human and property rights, but reforming the judiciary is the EU's top priority.
The deal had been held up over the role EU and U.S. officials would play in a body that will vet judges and remove corrupt ones. The opposition party had argued that was a breach of sovereignty.
Political analysts say many politicians were reluctant to vote in a reform that could see them face arrest.
EU Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn has said he wants the reform to "have teeth" and the EU would see how it was working before recommending the start of accession talks.
(This version of the story has been refiled to add first name of EU Commissioner in last paragraph)
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged world powers on Wednesday to ensure a historic nuclear deal with Iran delivers "tangible benefits to the Iranian people" after Tehran complained it was not fully benefiting from sanctions relief.
On the first anniversary of a U.N. Security Council resolution endorsing the deal between Iran and six world powers, Ban urged all the parties to uphold their commitments to implement the agreement to curb Tehran's atomic work.
"It is of the utmost importance that the JCPOA (Iran deal) works for all its participants, including by delivering tangible benefits to the Iranian people," Ban said in a statement.
Most U.N. sanctions on Iran were lifted in January when the U.N. nuclear watchdog confirmed that Tehran fulfilled commitments under its nuclear deal. But Iran is still subject to a U.N. arms embargo and other restrictions.
In Ban's first bi-annual report to the U.N. Security Council on the implementation of those remaining sanctions and restrictions, he said Iran believes it has yet to benefit from the lifting of sanctions.
Ban cited Iran's complaints over U.S. visa restrictions and the confiscation of Iranian Central Bank assets under a U.S. court order. The United States complained on Monday that Ban overstepped his mandate by referring to Iran's complaints in the report.
Iran has also urged the United States to do more to clarify the sanctions relief and to encourage commercial deals.
European banks, some of which have been punished for breaking sanctions imposed on Iran, have shown reluctance to resume trade ties until they get concrete reassurance that they will not be hit again.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has said banks have nothing to fear from resuming business with Iran as long as they make proper checks on trade partners.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Dutch and German foreign ministers on Wednesday expressed concern about the scale of the crackdown by Turkish authorities in the aftermath of the failed coup attempt and called on Turkey to respect the rule of law.
"We have serious concerns about the situation in Turkey," Dutch Foreign Minister Bert Koenders told a news conference in Washington. "We want to send a strong signal on the need to ... respect the rule of law."
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said his government was "looking with concern" at reports of thousands of people arrested in Turkey and some prevented from leaving the country.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Police sealed off a Brussels square and called in bomb experts after a man was seen wearing a thick coat on a hot summer's day with wires protruding from underneath, but he turned out to be a student who said he was researching radiation levels.
"The way in which he reacted initially was not normal, which is why we had to use such measures," a police spokesman in the Belgian capital told reporters after Wednesday's incident.
He said the bomb squad had used a robot to carry out an initial check which revealed metal plates underneath the man's coat, further raising suspicions. The man was taken in for questioning.
Brussels airport was the site of an Islamist militant attack that killed 32 people in March. Authorities are on high alert before a national holiday on Thursday, which police fear could be a target after last week's attack on crowds celebrating Bastille Day in the French resort of Nice.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish F-16 fighter jets scrambled on Wednesday to check reports that missing Turkish coastguard vessels had appeared in Greek waters in the Aegean Sea, Turkish military sources said.
They gave no further details. Some Turkish military hardware was seized and used in last weekend's failed coup in which more than 230 people were killed. Officials have said no military equipment remains unaccounted for.
Turkey's government and military General Staff say they are fully in control of the situation in the country but tensions remain high as the authorities purge tens of thousands of suspected coup supporters from state institutions, including in the armed forces.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The momentum in the fight against Islamic State has shifted and the militant group has been driven out of almost half the territory it once occupied in Iraq, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday.
"The momentum has shifted," Kerry told the opening of an Iraq donor conference, saying he hoped the meeting would raise at least $2 billion for the war-torn country. "We are making progress with significant portions of Iraq reclaimed, significant portions of Syria now being reclaimed," he added.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenya expects the East African Community bloc to sign a trade deal with the European Union by an Oct. 1 deadline, its trade minister said on Wednesday.
Governments in the region are anxious to ensure that exports such as tea and fresh flowers, which are major sources of foreign exchange, are not hampered by any post-Brexit tariffs.
Regional media said Tanzania was holding back on the deal after Britain voted to leave the EU.
Adan Mohamed, the Kenyan minister for industrialisation and trade, told Reuters: "I don't think that is the formal (Tanzanian) position.
"I have no reason to doubt it (the EU-East African trade deal) will not be signed because we have an agreement that has been initialled by all the member states."
Tanzanian officials were not immediately available to comment.
Mohamed said the six-nation EAC bloc was working with the EU to get a suitable date and venue to sign the economic partnership agreement (EPA).
Governments were given two years from the October 2014 agreement to ratify the deal in national parliaments.
"It is not a matter of 'if' but 'when' it is going to be signed by all the member states," Mohamed said.
"If this process is not concluded in time, then our market access on a duty free basis is going to be disrupted. From that point of view it is critical and it is important," he said.
(Reuters) - The parents of a two-year-old boy drowned by an alligator at the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida last month "are broken" but will not sue over the incident, the couple said in a statement on Wednesday.
Lane Graves was playing at the edge of the Seven Seas Lagoon at the Walt Disney World's Grand Floridian Resort & Spa on June 14 when he was snatched by an alligator and dragged into the water. His parents rushed to save their child but failed to pry him free from the predator's grip, as a second alligator attacked during the rescue attempt.
Graves, whose family was vacationing from Nebraska, was found by divers a day later at the bottom of the manmade lake.
"Melissa and I are broken. We will forever struggle to comprehend why this happened to our sweet baby, Lane," parents Matt and Melissa Graves said in the statement. "As each day passes, the pain gets worse."
Despite their grief, the couple said they would focus on the development of a charitable foundation named after their son and would not file a lawsuit.
"In addition to the foundation, we will solely be focused on the future health of our family and will not be pursuing a lawsuit against Disney," the parents said.
Walt Disney Co has had more than 240 "nuisance" alligators captured and killed over the last 10 years at its theme park property in Orange County, Florida.
At the time of the attack on Graves, the resort had "No Swimming" signs that did not mention alligators. Disney has since installed signs by the lagoon warning guests of alligators and snakes.
"Danger! Alligators and snakes in area," read the new signs, which feature diagrams of the two animals. "Stay away from the water. Do not feed the wildlife."
HARARE (Reuters) - Thousands of supporters of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe marched to the ruling ZANU-PF party's headquarters on Wednesday in a show of solidarity following anti-government protests this month.
On July 8, a 'stay away' protest movement led by church minister Evan Mawarire shut down most businesses, government offices, schools and hospitals in the biggest act of public defiance against 92-year old Mugabe in a decade.
Mugabe has said the protests were being sponsored by foreign states and urged citizens to support his government.
Many of those marching in support of Mugabe were members of the ruling ZANU-PF.
"This has given us the chance to express our solidarity with our president, Robert Mugabe," ZANU-PF youth wing official Tinashe Wenyika said.
"We remain committed to our party as young people and this is a sign that the centre still holds."
Mawarire, who rallied followers under his #ThisFlag Twitter campaign, says his protests are peaceful and are against government corruption, alleged police brutality, delays in paying state workers' salaries and cash shortages.
"What pastor Mawarire is saying is just a joke and it's paranoid," a ZANU-PF supporter at the march said, declining to give his name.
"We don't take paranoid as something that can rule the country."
Mawarire was arrested on charges of treason but the case was thrown out last week in a Zimbabwean court.
TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisian authorities dismantled a cell linked to the Islamic State militant group that was planning attacks against sites in the coastal town of Sousse, the interior ministry said on Wednesday.
Tunisian security forces are on high alert after attacks in Tunis and Sousse last year, and an attempt by militants to take control of a town near the Libyan border in March.
On Tuesday the government extended a nationwide state of emergency that gives authorities additional powers for two more months.
The interior ministry statement said the cell had been dismantled on Tuesday in the Kalaa Kbira area, and that it "planned to carry out terrorist acts in Sousse against key sites in the city".
It said a number of the cell's members had received combat training and watched videos on how to make explosives. It did not say how many people had been arrested or give further details.
Tunisia has faced a growing challenge from Islamist militants since its 2011 revolution and transition to democracy. Officials estimate that several thousand Tunisians left to fight with Islamic State and other groups in Iraq, Syria and Libya.
In the attack in Sousse last June, a gunman trained in Libya killed 38 foreigners, mostly Britons, at a beach hotel.
PARIS (Reuters) - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls invoked special constitutional powers on Wednesday to force a contested labour law through parliament in the face of opposition from left-wing lawmakers.
The widely expected move leaves lawmakers in the lower house of parliament opposed to the bill with little chance to derail it before its final adoption.
They have 24 hours to mount a censure motion against the government or otherwise it is considered as definitively adopted.
The bill aimed at making hiring and firing easier sparked three months of street protests and waves of strikes by hardline trade unions.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel said on Wednesday that it and the Republic of Guinea have renewed diplomatic relations after 49 years, a diplomatic score for Israel as it looks to improve political and economic ties in the Muslim world.
A number of African countries have either never had diplomatic relations with Israel, or severed them in the past, often citing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Guinea cut off ties after the 1967 Middle East war.
The Director General of Israel's Foreign Ministry, Dore Gold, in Paris to sign an official agreement, said he hoped other African countries would follow suit and open relations with Israel.
"The number of countries in Africa that still haven't done so is getting smaller and we hope that soon there will not be any," Gold said in a statement.
PARIS (Reuters) - Ill Armed protesters fired at police, lightly wounding five, during overnight confrontations in an area north of Paris over the death of a young man in police custody, local officials said on Wednesday.
Officials made no link to last week's militant attack in the coastal city of Nice, in which nearly 90 people were killed by a speeding truck, but France and its security forces remain on tenterhooks.
The protests in the Val d'Oise area were sparked when a 24-year-old died after being arrested, deputy prosecutor François Capin-Dulhoste told Reuters.
Capin-Dulhoste said the man had suffered a heart problem during transportation to the police station, but that the cause of death was being investigated.
Family members said police hit the man as they detained him for trying to prevent the arrest of his brother on suspicion of violence and extortion.
"About a hundred individuals ... came looking for the law enforcement forces after a person died at the premises of the gendarmerie in Beaumont (town)," Jean-Simon Merandat, director of the Val d'Oise prefect's office, told France Info radio.
"Things are calm now and we have about 130 gendarmes and other police on the spot," he said.
Capin-Dulhoste said five police sustained gunshot wounds from firearms, and a sixth was wounded in physical violence from a protester. Merandat said the firearms used by the protesters were probably hunting weapons.
It was not clear if protesters were wounded in the standoff, but one arrest was made, the police said.
Weeks of rioting erupted in Paris's often grim suburbs in 2005 after the death of youths electrocuted when they hid from police in a power hub.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Around 6,500 employees of Turkey's education ministry have been suspended, a Turkish official said on Wednesday, as a probe launched after a failed coup into the military, civil service and schools gathers pace.
The latest suspensions came a day after the same ministry suspended 15,200 personnel and also revoked the licences of 21,000 teachers working in private institutions across Turkey.
So far about 60,000 soldiers, police, judges, civil servants and teachers have been suspended, detained or are under investigation following the military coup attempt last weekend.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The head of a group working on factory safety in Bangladesh for fashion retailers including Inditex and H&M expects brands to actually increase sourcing from the country due to improving building standards despite attacks claimed by Islamist militants.
The Accord on Fire and Building Safety was set up by more than 200 mostly European brands, retailers and importers in 2013 to improve safety in Bangladeshi factories after the collapse of the Rana Plaza complex in which more than 1,100 people died.
Accord executive director Rob Wayss said much progress had been made since then, with 65 percent of the safety issues identified at around 1,600 factories already resolved.
"There is no other country where the work that the Accord is doing is taking place and where buyers can have the assurances on safety compliance issues that they can have here," he told Reuters in a interview over Skype from Dhaka.
"For many of the brands, Bangladesh is a very important and good supplier base and ... it is still their plan to increase the amount and types of production that they have here," he said, stressing that sourcing decisions rest with the brands.
Bangladesh relies on garments for more than 80 percent of its exports and roughly 4 million jobs. It ranks behind only China as a clothing supplier to developed markets in Europe and the United States.
Some people working in the garment industry say they fear for the future of the $28 billion sector after a group of radicalised young Bangladeshis killed about 20 people, including 18 foreigners, in an attack on an upscale Dhaka restaurant.
Wayss said some brands had put a temporary halt to foreign staff travelling to Bangladesh, but he expected visits would resume again soon as buyers take up an offer from the government to provide extra security and escorts for foreigners.
He said it is quite likely that the work of the Accord will be extended beyond 2018, when it is currently due to wrap up its work, noting that it still has to introduce safety committees at the majority of factories that supply its brands.
He added that discussions were taking place on a possible extension between the signatories to the Accord, which include brands, global and Bangladeshi trade unions and four non-governmental organisations.
A separate group of mostly North American brands and retailers including Gap and Wal Mart said last week it is also still committed to Bangladesh.
NICE, France - (Reuters) - A child's doll lying in the street stares up into the night sky next to a dead body covered in a metallic blanket - an image that has come to symbolise the Bastille Day massacre when 84 people were killed by a truck ploughing into holidaying crowds.
But the photographer, who rushed out of his Nice apartment in the confusion and fear of Thursday night, had not even seen the doll when he set to work shooting pictures on the Promenade des Anglais, and like everyone there, still had no real idea of what had happened.
"I couldn’t get through on my motorbike and, as I parked, there was a body next to my bike. It was when I looked into my rearview mirror that I saw all the other bodies just behind me,"  veteran Reuters photographer Eric Gaillard said.
Around a dozen bodies, some already covered with tablecloths taken from nearby restaurants, lay on what is one of France's best known seaside roads. Police and soldiers - many pointing their guns - were still in a state of confusion.
For photo essay, please click on reut.rs/29Roc2u
"The conditions were very difficult, it was dark, police trying to stop us work ... and with some people there who wanted to hit me, who threw stones. I understand. The situation was very chaotic," Gaillard said.
He was not supposed to be working that night, taking time off after covering the Euro 2016 soccer championship. Around 9 p.m. his wife suggested they pop outside to see the annual fireworks, but he persuaded her to stay in watching TV.
When a colleague called from Paris to say a truck had hit people in central Nice, he assumed it was a traffic accident - not something his international news agency would normally cover.
"Suddenly I received an alert on my phone, the local authority announcing there had been an attack. I didn't stop to wonder what it was, I grabbed my camera and set out on my motorbike."
Gaillard, 58, has seen plenty of death and destruction in his 31 years with Reuters, but he never expected to see a war zone outside his flat on the Cote d'Azur.
"When you go to a war you know it's a hostile environment, you expect to see some unpleasant things ... (but) I was very shaken by what I saw that night because it's my city, Nice, 500 metres from my home, in a holiday setting."
The doll photo has gone viral on the internet, and often been captioned to say it shows a dead child beneath the foil emergency blanket, but in fact nobody knows for sure the age of the victim.
"Given its size, I don’t think it was a child. I don’t know why the doll is there," Gaillard said. "Was it a parent who was with a child – hence the doll? Did someone put the doll there at some point, for some unknown reason? Everyone is asking me."
Gaillard agrees that of all the photos he took that night, this one is the most poignant. But shots that show victims lying under the palm trees next to the beach convey the shocking scene of mass murder in a peaceful holiday town.
"It's people who are strolling, people jogging, people in their swimming costumes. And here they are ... the wider angle views with bodies left and right are also very symbolic of that evening."
((Corrects day in second paragraph.)
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Dozens of people have died or disappeared without a trace after being detained by Kenyan security forces during operations against Islamist militants in the capital and on the border with Somalia, Human Rights Watch said.
Kenya launched a crackdown on jihadist groups last year after Islamist militants, including the Somalia-based al Shabaab, stepped up attacks in the East African country. In one of the worst, gunmen killed 148 people at a university in the north eastern town of Garissa.
New York-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) said in a report late on Tuesday that it had documented 34 cases in which people suspected of having ties to al Shabaab went missing after their homes were raided and they were detained by security forces.
"Months, and in some cases over a year, later, suspects have not been charged with any crimes and families cannot locate them," HRW said in a statement.
There were also at least 11 cases in the past two years in which the bodies of people previously arrested by state agents had turned up, sometimes far away from the location of their arrest, HRW said.
Mwenda Njoka, the spokesman for Kenya's interior ministry rejected the allegations and said the report should be forwarded to the country's Independent Policing Oversight Authority for investigation to determine any culpability.
"These are just claims," he told Reuters on phone.
HRW said Kenyan security forces should stop carrying out abuse in the communities living in the northeast near the border with Somalia.
"Rounding people up and refusing to disclose their whereabouts is a serious crime and only compounds fears and mistrust in the security forces," said Ken Roth, the group's executive director.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's defence ministry is investigating all the country's military judges and prosecutors and has suspended 262 of them, private broadcaster NTV reported on Wednesday, following an abortive July 15 coup in which at least 232 people were killed.
NTV gave no further information about the moves, part of a wide-ranging purge of state institutions aimed at rooting out supporters of the attempted coup and of a U.S.-based Muslim cleric the government says was behind it.
The cleric, Fethullah Gulen, denies any involvement.
LUSAKA (Reuters) - Zambian police arrested 28 opposition supporters on Wednesday on suspicion of rioting and making petrol bombs, the latest sign of political tensions ahead of elections on Aug. 11, a senior officer said.
The arrests come shortly after the election commission lifted a 10-day ban on campaigning imposed on some parts of the southern African country to prevent violence
Police confronted supporters of the opposition United Party for National Development (UPND) as they destroyed ruling party campaign posters in Kasama, 850 km (500 miles) north of Lusaka, Northern province police chief Bonnie Kapeso said.
Other opposition supporters who had camped at UPND vice-president Geoffrey Mwamba's home then started throwing stones at police, damaging one vehicle.
"We were left with no option but to follow them after they retreated and hid inside the house. We broke the door and fished out the ring leaders," Kapeso said. "We had to use tear gas."
Police found seven petrol bombs, she added.
However, the UPND said in a statement they were only empty bottles.
President Edgar Lungu has been in power for just over a year after winning a ballot triggered by the death of his predecessor, Michael Sata. Lungu faces a strong challenge from UPND leader Hakainde Hichilema.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Protesters from India's low-caste community blocked roads and attacked government buses in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state on Wednesday in a third day of demonstrations over the flogging of four men accused of skinning a cow.
The four members of the Dalit community were last week tied to a car in Gujarat state, stripped and flogged with sticks by self-styled hardline Hindu cow protectors who then published a video of the attack as a "warning" to others.
The beatings sparked the most serious protests by Dalits in years in Gujarat, with seven youths trying to kill themselves in protest by taking pesticide in different parts of the state, an act that further inflamed tempers.
A police officer was killed on Tuesday during clashes in Una, 340 km (210 miles) from Gujarat's main city, Ahmedabad, where the tannery workers were attacked.
Cows are revered in Hinduism and their slaughter is banned in most Indian states including Gujarat, where Modi ruled as chief minister for a decade and spearheaded a 2011 ban.
Dalits in the state, however, said they earn their livelihood from skinning cows that die naturally, buffalos and other animals, and vowed to fight anyone trying to stop them from doing so.
"We are the poorest but we are not cowards,"  Mayur Dabhia, a leader of the Dalit campaign group in Ahmedabad.
Police are investigating whether the flogged men killed the cow or whether it was already dead.
Dalits are at the bottom of India's ages-old social hierarchy, making them vulnerable to attacks perpetrated by self-styled cow-protecting vigilantes.
The vigilantes chase trucks transporting cattle and raid slaughter houses.
Several people accused of eating beef have also been attacked, including a Muslim man who was last year beaten to death by a mob in a town near New Delhi.
Opposition lawmakers disrupted parliament on Wednesday to protest against the floggings in Gujarat and demanded Modi apologise to the victims.
"The recent shocking incident in Gujarat where four Dalit youths were savagely beaten and humiliated publicly is just one example of the social terror this government condones," Sonia Gandhi, president of the opposition Congress party told supporters, Indian media reported.
Critics say Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party's Hindu nationalist agenda empowers hardline activists to believe they can take matters into their hands and target minority groups like Dalits and Muslims involved in the cattle trade.
Home Minister Rajnath Singh condemned the attack in Gujarat and said Modi was committed to the protection of low-caste people.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission is likely to delay a decision on whether to suspend European Union funds for Spain and Portugal until after the summer, a vice president of the EU executive said on Wednesday.
Madrid and Lisbon are at risk of EU sanctions for not having sufficiently corrected their excessive deficits last year, in breach of EU fiscal rules. They could be fined up to 0.2 percent of their gross domestic product and have billions of euros in EU structural funding partially suspended.
The Commission will make a proposal on possible financial fines by the end of July, at its last meeting before the summer break, but is likely to delay a decision on any suspension of structural funds until after the summer, a vice president of the Commission, Maros Sefcovic, told a news conference in Brussels.
EU rules compel the Commission to decide on a fine by the beginning of August, but set no specific deadline for a decision on the suspension of structural and investment funds. "Probably we have to deal with that after the summer break," Sefcovic said.
He said the European Parliament, which has the right to request talks with the Commission before any decision on suspensions of EU funds, had requested the delay.
The 2014-2020 EU budget foresees an overall commitment to Spain of 37.4 billion euros in EU funds, and 25.8 billion for Portugal, which on average means that Spain should receive more than 5 billion euros a year, and Portugal about 3.5 billion.
EU fiscal rules dictate a possible suspension of up to 50 percent of next year's funds, but not exceeding the equivalent of 0.5 percent of GDP. But countries can argue for a reduction to take into account unemployment and the general economic situation.
Sefcovic reiterated that the Commission had made no decision yet on fines, and said these could yet be reduce or waived.
SKOPJE (Reuters) - Macedonian police arrested 19 people, including five police officers, suspected of trafficking migrants, the interior minister said on Wednesday.
Three more suspected members of the same gang remained at large after the pre-dawn arrests. The group is also suspected of robberies and arms and drugs trafficking.
"The group started operating in early 2015 on the domestic and international level ... the investigation showed that the group organised the smuggling of at least 550 migrants," Interior Minister Mitko Cavkov told a news conference.
With unprecedented numbers of migrants and refugees entering Europe, in February Balkan countries shut their borders to those trying to head north to wealthy western European Union countries, but many are still attempting the journey, some using human trafficking networks.
In neighbouring Serbia on Tuesday, police detained six suspected human traffickers, while 78 migrants were discovered attempting to cross the country illegally.
Bulgarian police arrested 45 migrants attempting to cross to Serbia on Tuesday.
AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Dutch police on Wednesday said they were investigating an assault after an anti-immigrant group said its members had detained an asylum seeker.
Members of a new Dutch branch of the group 'Soldiers of Odin', set up in Finland in 2015, said in a post on Facebook they had detained an asylum seeker whom they accused of assaulting women in the northern Dutch town of Winschoten. The group had appealled to members to hunt for the man.
The group denied using violence against the man, saying he was approached in the street and waited voluntarily for police to arrive.
"They called on members to hunt an asylum seeker in posts on Facebook," said police spokesman Ernest Zinsmeyer. "The person in question had been assaulted, but it is unclear who did it. That's what we are investigating."
One of the founders of the Finnish branch of Soldiers of Odin was convicted last month for aggravated assault.
On its Dutch-language Facebook page, Soldiers of Odin said a branch had been opened in Groningen, a province in the northern Netherlands.
The Soldiers of Odin, named after the king of the gods in Norse mythology, have triggered fears of a rise in vigilante movements in the Nordic countries as the numbers of immigrants rise.
Dutch far-right leader Geert Wilders, who is leading opinion polls ahead of March 15 elections but does not advocate violence, has called for the borders to be closed to Muslim immigrants.
DHAKA (Reuters) - Bangladesh police are trying to determine the whereabouts of at least 260 young men who have been missing for a year or more, a security officer said on Wednesday, in an effort to track militants after a deadly attack this month.
Five young men killed 22 people, most of them foreigners, in an attack on an upmarket Dhaka cafe on July 1 claimed by Islamic State. Three of the attackers were from affluent Dhaka homes who had broken off contact with their families months ago.
Authorities have blamed the attack on a domestic militant group, but security experts say the scale and sophistication of the assault suggested links to a trans-national network.
After the attack, the government appealed to families to contact authorities if their sons had disappeared.
A senior officer with the police-led Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), which is involved in the counter-terrorism effort, said a list of 260 missing young men had been compiled from reports from families and intelligence tip-offs.
"Some of the missing youngsters are sons of retired or serving army officials, bureaucrats and businessmen," Mufti Mahmud Khan, chief of the RAB's legal and media wing, told Reuters.
Information was still being gathered and the number of missing was expected to grow, he added.
The RAB list posted on its Facebook page includes a 16-year-old, a doctor whose father was in the army and a man arrested in 2013 with explosives who went to Malaysia while on bail.
Mostly Muslim Bangladesh has faced a series of attacks on liberal bloggers, university teachers and members of religious minorities over the past year.
Lawyers said a court on Wednesday charged five suspected members of a banned militant group, the al Qaeda-inspired Ansarullah Bangla Team, over the March 2015 murder of an online critic of religious extremism.
Bystanders in Dhaka, the capital, seized two of the attackers as they tried to flee after hacking to death the blogger, Washikur Rahman, 27, and police later arrested a third suspect.
The three men now in jail pleaded not guilty, public prosecutor Salauddin Hawlader told reporters, while the others, who are on the run, are to be tried in their absence.
Islamic State has warned that the violence would continue until Islamic law was established worldwide, saying in a video the Dhaka cafe attack was just a hint of what was to come.
Three young Bangladeshi men who appeared in that video posing as fighters also appeared on the list of missing.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Persistent heavy rain on Wednesday caused widespread disruption in the Chinese capital, Beijing, forcing the delay and cancellation of hundreds of flights and the closure of some subway stations.
Beijing's steamy summer months are often marked by dramatic rainstorms, one of which in 2012 killed 37 people.
At a meeting of the top government body, the Politburo standing committee, President Xi Jinping urged officials to be prepared for rescue work and flood control efforts as China is in its flood season, the official Xinhua news agency said.
The Beijing city government issued an orange alert, the second highest in China's four-tier warning system, over the rain, and warned it could continue overnight, with a total of 100 mm (3.9 inches) of rain expected in some areas.
More than 200 flights were canceled at Beijing's main international airport, and a handful of subway stations shut, the government said.
Pictures on social media showed cars making their way slowly through flooded streets in parts of the city.
Some high speed rail services were also delayed, the rail authority said.
There were no reports of any casualties.
Large parts of central and eastern China have been inundated with rain this summer, killing more than 200 people.
Since Monday, 13 people have been killed and 62 have gone missing amid rains in north and northwest China, Xinhua said.
ALMATY (Reuters) - At least six people have been killed and eight wounded in attacks on police by suspected Islamist militants in Almaty on Monday, a source at the Kazakh city's emergency aid hospital told Reuters.
The source said there were four policemen and one civilian among the dead, as well as one suspected attacker. The Interior Ministry had earlier put the death toll at four, including three policemen.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The United States backs Turkish efforts to bring those involved in the weekend's failed coup to justice, but urges the government to uphold the rule of law and not take excessive measures, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday.
Speaking after meeting EU counterparts in Brussels, Kerry said he had also made clear to Turkey it must provide evidence that withstands scrutiny when requesting the extradition of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom President Tayyip Erdogan has blamed for the attempted power grab.
"We stand squarely on the side of the elected leadership in Turkey. But we also firmly urge the government of Turkey to maintain calm and stability throughout the country," Kerry told a news briefing.
"We also urge the government of Turkey to uphold the highest standards of respect for the nation's democratic institutions and the rule of law. We will certainly support bringing the perpetrators of the coup to justice but we also caution against a reach that goes well beyond that."
Turkey's turmoil and the Gulen case present a quandary for the United States because Ankara is a pivotal ally in the NATO security alliance and has an important role in the war against Islamist militancy.
Kerry stressed that NATO had a requirement when it came to democracy and "will ... measure very carefully what is happening" in Turkey.
"My hope is that Turkey is going to move in ways that do respect what they have said ... is the bedrock of their country," he said.
Referring to Gulen, Kerry called on Turkey to furnish evidence "that withstands scrutiny", rather than allegations.
Turkey has said it is putting together an extradition request for Gulen. The Muslim cleric said on Sunday that he would obey any U.S. extradition ruling from the United States, but accused Erdogan of staging the putsch himself.
Even if an extradition request were formally submitted and approved, lawyers in the United States could argue that risks to his safety should prevent him being returned.
More than 290 people were killed and around 1,400 wounded in the upheaval in Turkey late on Friday and early on Saturday as soldiers commandeered tanks, attack helicopters and fighter jets in a bid to seize power. They strafed parliament and the intelligence headquarters in Ankara and tried to seize the main airport and bridges in Istanbul.
Turkey suspended thousands of police officers on Monday, widening a purge of the armed forces and judiciary after the coup attempt, raising concern among European allies that it was abandoning the rule of law.
COLOMBO (Reuters) - Sri Lankan financial crime police arrested on Monday a brother of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa for a third time over suspicion of state fund misappropriation when he was economic development minister, a lawyer said.
Rajapaksa's younger brother, Basil, is on bail after being arrested twice for alleged misappropriation of state funds and a land deal allegedly involving money laundering. Court hearings into the two cases are going on.
He has denied any wrongdoing.
Sri Lanka's new president, Maithripala Sirisena, faces pressure to act on allegations of corruption dating back to the Rajapaksa era, especially from civil society organisations who backed his successful bid to oust Rajapaksa last year.
Mahinda Rajapaksa, who was president for a decade until January 2015 and is now an opposition legislator, is popular among many ethnic majority Sinhala Buddhists who credit him with ending a 26-year-war against ethnic Tamil rebels in 2009. He is trying to rally opposition to the current government with the help of Basil.
Basil Rajapaksa's lawyer, Jayantha Weerasinghe, told Reuters his client was remanded in custody until Aug. 1 after police took him to court over the supply of building materials to district councils when he was a minister.
"We pointed out that nothing is irregular about this transaction. But irrespective of what we said, he was remanded," Weerasinghe said.
Neither Basil Rajapaksa nor his family members were immediately available for comment.
Several members of the Rajapaksa family are facing police investigations for alleged financial crimes. They include Mahinda Rajapaksa and his brothers Basil and Gotabaya.
Mahinda Rajapaksa's eldest son, Namal Rajapaksa, who is also a member of parliament, was released by a court on bail on Monday, media reported.
He was arrested on July 11 for suspected misappropriation of funds in a high-end apartment project.
Namal Rajapaksa denies wrongdoing as do his father and other relatives facing investigations.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China will not halt the construction of islands and reefs in the South China Sea, state media reported the head of China's navy saying on Monday.
China will not leave outcroppings under construction half finished, state-run Xinhua news agency reported the admiral as saying.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Turkish soldiers who fled to neighbouring Greece in a military helicopter after the weekend coup attempt "fear for their lives" back home and do not want to be returned, one of their lawyers said on Monday as they appeared in a Greek court.
The eight men, who have sough political asylum in Greece, landed in the northern city of Alexandroupolis on Saturday after issuing a distress signal. They were arrested and charged with crossing into the country illegally.
Turkey has branded them "traitors" and asked Greece to  extradite them. Athens has assured Ankara that their asylum requests will be processed swiftly but will stick strictly to  international law and human rights treaties.
Vasiliki Ilia Marinaki, a lawyer representing four of the men, reiterated that the defendants "knew absolutely nothing about the coup" and were following orders from their superiors.
"They fear their lives are in danger. For that reason they do not want to return to Turkey and they have requested political asylum," she told Skai TV.
At one point their Black Hawk helicopter came under fire from Turkish police, she added. At the same time they had received text messages on their phones that the coup attempt was underway, so they decided to feel to neighbouring Greece.
Since the coup attempt crumbled on Saturday, the Turkish government has launched a purge of the armed forces and judiciary, rounding up thousands.
The three lawyers representing the men requested a three-day postponement during Monday's court appearance to prepare the case. The helicopter has been returned to Turkey.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Somsak Sreesomsong was 18 when he was jailed for selling illegal drugs. Now, turning 30, he is not yet half way through his 33-year sentence at Bangkok's high-security Klong Prem prison.
Somsak was "just a kid, not a big-time dealer", his older brother Panit told Reuters after a visit to the jail. "We're also serving time, waiting for him to get out so he can help the family."
More than a decade after Thailand declared a "war on drugs", the country is admitting defeat. As the prison population soars, Justice Minister Paiboon Koomchaya told Reuters he was looking at changes to the country's draconian drug laws.
"I want to de-classify methamphetamine but Thailand is not ready yet," said Paiboon, meaning downgrading the drug, popularly known as "meth", from a Category 1 substance, which would reduce jail time for possession or dealing.
Use of methamphetamine is spiralling across Southeast Asia, and authorities are struggling to respond.
In the Philippines, which has some of the highest rates of "meth" use, police killings of drug suspects have spiked since the swearing-in of President Rodrigo Duterte, elected on a platform of harsh measures to wipe out drug crime.
Myanmar, the source of much of the drugs flooding through the region, is bracing for an explosion in domestic use.
Overall, drugs supply in Southeast Asia, especially of methamphetamine, is at a record level, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
In common with much of the region, Thailand's criminal justice system treats drug offenders harshly.
Producing and trading in Category 1 drugs, which also include heroin, MDMA - the main chemical for ecstasy pills - and LSD, is punishable by death or life imprisonment.
Klong Prem is home to 6,267 inmates serving sentences that range from 15 years to life, with 64 percent convicted of drug-related crimes.
A typical cell measures 1.5 x 3 metres (5 x 10 feet) and sleeps five inmates, side-by-side on dark blue mattress on the floor.
"Some of the men, especially the foreign prisoners, are pretty big, so it's a squeeze for them," said one prison guard.
Lengthy sentences for drug offences are part of the reason why Thai jails struggle with chronic overcrowding, according to both Justice Minister Paiboon and U.N. experts.
Thailand has approximately 40 percent of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations' prison population, despite having only 10 percent of the bloc's total population, the UNODC says.
Paiboon, an army general and senior member of the junta that seized power in a 2014 coup, said in an interview that Thailand would build more prisons, including 17 temporary jails for prisoners who have served at least a third of their sentence.
He added that his priority was to tackle drug trafficking and addiction - an ambitious plan in a country where a record number of people use methamphetamines, known in Thai as "ya ba" or "crazy medicine", according to a 2015 U.N. report.
A crackdown launched by former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in 2003 aimed at suppressing drug trafficking killed more than 2,800 people, according to an independent inquiry chaired by a former attorney general.
But the country's growing number of drug users and bulging jails have forced policymakers to think again.
"The world has lost the war on drugs, not only Thailand," said Paiboon. "We have clear numbers that drug use has increased over the past three years. Another indicator is there are more prisoners."
A 2015 report by the Institute for Criminal Policy Research shows Thailand has the fourth highest number of women imprisoned in the world, after the United States, China and Russia.
"We know from meeting and interviewing prisoners, including female prisoners, in Thailand, that the impact is profoundly negative for families," said Jeremy Douglas, the UNODC's Asia-Pacific chief.
One former female inmate, who declined to be named because of the social stigma attached to drug offenders in Thailand, said she was jailed for three years after being caught with 20 methamphetamine pills.
"My boyfriend was the dealer. I was carrying the pills for him. My son doesn't want anything to do with me now," she said.
The number of inmates jailed for drug convictions has almost doubled over the past decade, Thai Department of Corrections figures showed, a result of unsparing sentencing that puts even petty users behind bars.
"We need to change sentencing and make a distinction between small and big time dealers," said Klong Prem prison commander Thawatchai Chaiywat. "Thailand thinks prisons are a panacea for all crimes, including drug crimes."
In the meantime, Thailand's jails grow ever more crowded. Corrections department figures for July showed a prison population of 321,347, with around 70 percent jailed for drugs offences.
Institute for Criminal Policy Research data showed Thailand has the eighth highest incarceration rate in the world.
"The situation has approached a noticeable crisis point," said UNODC chief Douglas. "The reality is that talk has not yet moved to action and the prison population is still growing." ($1 = 35.1100 baht)
ALMATY (Reuters) - Kazakh police have detained a second person suspected of being linked to the deadly shooting in the Central Asian nation's biggest city on Monday, the Interior Ministry said.
It said in a statement that the detained person "had been beside the criminal" who tried to get into a district police station. At least four people, including three policemen, were killed in the attacks which targeted security services.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Turkey cannot join the European Union if it reinstates the death penalty, a spokesman for the German government said on Monday, sending a clear message to President Tayyip Erdogan who has raised the possibility after a failed military coup.
The government also urged Turkey to maintain the rule of law in investigating and bringing those behind the weekend coup attempt to justice, and raised questions about Turkey's decision to round up thousands of judges.
"Germany and the member states of the EU have a clear position on that: we categorically reject the death penalty," government spokesman Steffen Seibert told a news conference.
"A country that has the death penalty can't be a member of the European Union and the introduction of the death penalty in Turkey would therefore mean the end of accession negotiations."
Turkey abolished capital punishment in 2004, allowing it to open EU accession talks the following year, but the negotiations have made scant progress since then.
With pro-government protestors demanding that the coup leaders be executed, Erdogan said on Sunday that the government would discuss the measure with opposition parties.
Even before the coup attempt, many EU states were not eager to see such a large, mostly Muslim country as a member, and were concerned that Ankara’s record on basic freedoms had gone into reverse in recent years.
Turkey widened the crackdown on suspected supporters of the coup on Sunday, taking the number of people rounded up in the armed forces and judiciary to 6,000.
German officials said they had seen no evidence of any conspiracy in the events beyond an effort by parts of the Turkish military to seize control of the government.
Erdogan and the Turkish government have accused the U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, a former ally of Erdogan, of orchestrating the coup.
Seibert said German and EU officials would emphasise the need to maintain the rule of law in all their conversations with Turkey. He said he expected EU foreign ministers to address their concerns about the revival of the death penalty and disproportionate punishment in a joint statement about the situation after a meeting in Brussels later on Monday.
"Everyone understands that the Turkish government and the Turkish justice system must bring those responsible for the coup to justice, but they must maintain the rule of law, and that always means maintaining proportionality ... and transparency."
German Foreign Minster Frank-Walter Steinmeier spoke to his counterpart early on Sunday, but Chancellor Angela Merkel has not spoken to Erdogan since the attempted coup, government spokesmen said.
BERLIN (Reuters) - There is no sign that the failed military coup in Turkey has affected the migrant deal that Ankara and the European Union struck earlier this year, a spokesman for the German Foreign Ministry said on Monday.
"Turkey committed to implementing the migrant deal before the attempted putsch and we have no indications from any of the discussions that we have had at the weekend or today that anything could have changed about this position," the spokesman said at a news conference in Berlin.
ANKARA (Reuters) - It is not correct to make a hasty decision about the death penalty, but Turkey cannot ignore the demands of its own people, Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Monday.
Crowds at rallies have repeatedly called for the death penalty for the plotters of a failed coup that attempted to topple the government on Friday night. Turkey outlawed capital punishment in line with its efforts to join the European Union.
Yildirim also said in his comments following a cabinet meeting that reinstating the death penalty would require constitutional change.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini warned the Turkish government on Monday against taking steps that would damage the constitutional order following a failed weekend coup.
"We were the first... during that tragic night to say that the legitimate institutions needed to be protected," she told reporters on arrival at an EU foreign ministers meeting, which was also to be attended by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.
"We are the ones saying today rule of law has to be protected in the country," she said in Brussels. "There is no excuse for any steps that takes the country away from that."
She also said: "The democratic and legitimate institutions needed to be protected. Today, we will say together with the ministers that this obviously doesn't mean that the rule of law and the system of checks and balances does not count."
"On the contrary, it needs to be protected for the sake of the country itself. So we will send a strong message."
Other ministers also expressed concerns about events after the coup. Mogherini's fellow EU commissioner, Johannes Hahn, who is dealing with Turkey's membership request, said he had the impression that the government had prepared lists of those such as judges to be arrested even before the coup took place.
"It looks at least as if something has been prepared. The lists are available, which indicates it was prepared and to be used at a certain stage," Hahn said. "I'm very concerned. It is exactly what we feared."
Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders said he was also concerned about the arrests of judges and also about President Tayyip Erdogan's suggestion of reintroducing the death penalty for plotters. That, Reynders said, "would pose a problem with Turkey’s ties with the European Union".
Abolishing capital punishment, as Turkey did in 2004 before it could open the formal process of accession negotiations with the EU, is a prerequisite for holding talks on membership.
Reynders said: "We cannot imagine that from a country that seeks to join the European Union. We must be very firm today, to condemn the coup d’etat but the response must respect the rule of law.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said: "We cannot accept a military dictatorship but we also have to be careful that the Turkish authorities do not put in place a political system which turns away from democracy ... The rule of law must prevail ... We need authority but we also need democracy."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union reminded Turkey on Monday that it is bound by its commitments under the European Convention on Human Rights and as a member of the Council of Europe not to reintroduce the death penalty.
"No country can become an EU member state if it introduces the death penalty," EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini told reporters when asked about suggestions that EU accession candidate Turkey might execute leaders of the failed coup.
She also noted that Turkey was a member of the Council of Europe and a signatory of the European Convention on Human Rights, which bans capital punishment across the continent:
"Turkey is an important part of the Council of Europe and is bound by the European Convention on Human Rights, which is very clear on the death penalty," she said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday he had made clear to Turkey that it must provide genuine evidence that withstands scrutiny when requesting the extradition of U.S.- based cleric Fethullah Gulen.
"The U.S. has a formal process for dealing with extradition requests, Turkey must send evidence not allegations," Kerry told a news conference in Brussels.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The United States supports Turkish efforts to bring those involved in the weekend's attempted coup to justice but urges the government to uphold the rule of law, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday.
"We stand squarely on the side of the elected leadership in Turkey," he told a news conference after meeting EU counterparts in Brussels. "But we also firmly urge the government of Turkey to maintain calm and stability throughout the country.
"We also urge the government of Turkey to uphold the highest standards of respect for the nation's democratic institutions and the rule of law. We will certainly support bringing the perpetrators of the coup to justice but we also caution against a reach that goes well beyond that."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The United States' alliance with the European Union is "unbreakable", U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said after meeting EU foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday.
"The U.S.-EU partnership is strong," he told a news conference. "Strong today, will remain strong in the future. It is ensuring and it is unbreakable."
Recalling a weekend visit to a World War Two U.S. military cemetery in Luxembourg and the U.S. contribution to liberating Europe, he said cooperation was as intense now as it has ever been and that all sides, including British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, were determined to have as smooth a transition in the relationships as possible as Britain moves to leave the EU.
KAMPALA (Reuters) - Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni said he was opposed to a U.N. plan to impose an arms embargo on his neighbour South Sudan, saying it would weaken its army just as the country was trying to contain a resurgence of violence.
The statement from one of the region's main powers, issued over the weekend, came after U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the Security Council to block arms sales to try and end more than two years of fighting in the world's newest nation.
At least 272 people have died in the latest clashes between forces loyal to South Sudan's President Salva Kiir and his rival, Vice President Riek Machar.
Museveni told Ban he was against the embargo at an African Union summit in Rwanda's capital Kigali on Saturday, officials said.
"When you impose an (arms) embargo on South Sudan you destroy the local force on which you need to build a strong integrated army,” a statement from his office read.
He did not say if Uganda would take any more concrete action against the plan for South Sudan, which declared independence from Sudan five years ago.
Uganda sent troops into South Sudan to back Kiir during latest conflict, which started in December 2013, and sent troops back again during this month's resurgence in fighting, saying they would rescue Ugandan citizens there.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The Turkish authorities must respect constitutional and fundamental rights in responding to the failed military coup, EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said on Monday.
"We call for the full observance of Turkey's constitutional order and we as the European Union stress the importance for the rule of law prevailing in the country," she told a news conference after EU foreign ministers met U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Brussels.
"We share concerns about what is happening in the country in these hours. We need to respect, have Turkey respect, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms."
HANOI (Reuters) - A provincial Vietnamese TV channel has dropped a Chinese drama series after several Chinese actors condemned a court's decision that denied Beijing's vast claims to the South China Sea.
China claims most of the energy-rich waters through which
about $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims.
The Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, deciding a case lodged by the Philippines, ruled last week that China's "nine-dash line" encircling its territory, almost all the South China Sea, was illegal and breached Manila's sovereign rights.
"Due to some objective reasons related to several Chinese actors criticising the court's ruling on the nine-dash line and to show clear views of a mouthpiece under the Communist Party and the State, Binh Thuan TV announces the suspension of broadcasting of 'Shanghai Bund'," a station anchor said in a video posted by media.
"Shanghai Bund" is a Chinese television series remake of the 1980 Hong Kong television series "The Bund", starring Huang Xiaoming, who voiced support for Beijing's claims. Binh Thuan TV is a state-run station based in the southern province of the same name.
Beijing has called the court ruling a farce and several Chinese celebrities have spoken up against the court's decision.
Many Vietnamese people have shared the video clip and showed support for the channel.
About 20 Vietnamese were detained on Sunday while trying to hold a protest against China's rejection of the court decision.
Vietnam has welcomed the ruling, but not said whether it will pursue the same legal path as the Philippines.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Thirty Turkish governors and more than 50 high-ranking civil servants have been removed from their posts, broadcaster CNN Turk reported on Monday, following in the wake of Friday's coup attempt.
News channels also reported the number of police removed from duty stood at 8,777, amid what is seen as a purge of state structures.
ALMATY (Reuters) - Authorities in Kazakhstan believe Islamist militants carried out a series of attacks on police and security forces in the financial capital Almaty on Monday in which at least four people were killed, a law enforcement source told Reuters.
Gunmen killed at least two policemen in Almaty in three near-simultaneous attacks on Monday, security sources and witnesses said.
VIENNA (Reuters) - It would be unacceptable for Turkey to reintroduce the death penalty in response to Friday's failed coup, Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz said in an interview published on Monday before a meeting with his EU counterparts.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday there could be no delay in using capital punishment, which Turkey abolished in 2004, and the government would discuss the measure with opposition parties.
"The introduction of the death penalty would of course be absolutely unacceptable," Kurz said in an interview with Austrian newspaper Kurier.
Turkey has ambitions to join the European Union, but a revival of the death penalty would freeze any discussion of membership.
EU foreign ministers will on Monday urge Erdogan to respect the law and human rights in dealing with defeated coup plotters, but they have limited leverage over their strategic neighbour.
"There must be no arbitrary purges, no criminal sanctions outside the framework of the rule of law and the justice system," Kurz said. "Austria will push at the foreign ministers' meeting ...to set very clear boundaries for Erdogan."
Kurz said a deal with Turkey aimed at stemming the flow of migrants into Europe was no reason to back down. "The migration pact cannot be a reason to deviate from our fundamental values and clear position."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The swift rounding up of judges and others after a failed coup in Turkey indicated the government had prepared a list beforehand, the EU commissioner dealing with Turkey's membership bid, Johannes Hahn, said on Monday.
Following a failed coup attempt on Saturday, Turkish authorities on Sunday rounded up nearly 3,000 suspected military plotters, ranging from top commanders to foot soldiers, and the same number of judges and prosecutors.
"It looks at least as if something has been prepared. The lists are available, which indicates it was prepared and to be used at a certain stage," Hahn said.
"I'm very concerned. It is exactly what we feared."
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish security forces are still searching for some of the soldiers involved in a failed coup attempt and their weapons in various cities and rural areas but there is no risk of a renewed bid to seize power, a senior security official said on Monday.
Turkey's military command has been dealt "a heavy blow in terms of organisation" by the attempted coup, but is still functioning in coordination with the intelligence agency, police and the government, the official told Reuters.
Some high-ranking military officials involved in the coup attempt have fled abroad, the official also said.
ANKARA (Reuters) - The Turkish economy will not suffer permanently from Friday's failed coup attempt despite a short-lived, downward impact on growth, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek said on Monday.
Simsek said Turkey's macroeconomic fundamentals were solid and the government would swiftly shift its focus back to carrying out structural reforms.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Cleveland's police union called for the suspension of a state law allowing people to carry firearms during the Republican National Convention but Ohio's governor said he was powerless to act despite heightened security concerns with the killing on Sunday of three police officers in Louisiana.
Republican Donald Trump seized on the shooting deaths in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to bolster his case the United States is leaderless and he is the better candidate in the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election to restore law and order than his rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton.
It was not immediately clear there was a link between Sunday's shootings and recent unrest countrywide over police killings of black men, one of them a shooting in Baton Rouge about two weeks ago.
Despite a lack of clarity about the motive and specifics of Sunday's incident, Trump said President Barack Obama "doesn't have a clue" on how to handle the problem after Obama voiced concern about inflammatory rhetoric on the campaign trail.
"Our country is a divided crime scene, and it will only get worse!" Trump said.
He issued statements on Twitter on Sunday, a day before the start of the four-day Republican Convention in Cleveland this week due to formally nominate him for the White House.
After the shootings in Baton Rouge, in which three other police officers were wounded, the head of Cleveland's police union, Steve Loomis, asked Governor John Kasich to suspend state laws allowing people to openly carry firearms, but Kasich said he lacked the authority to do so.
Kasich, a Republican who lost his bid for the White House to Trump, issued a statement through his spokeswoman Emmalee Kalmbach, saying:
"Ohio governors do not have the power to arbitrarily suspend federal and state constitutional rights or state laws as suggested. The bonds between our communities and police must be reset and rebuilt - as we're doing in Ohio - so our communities and officers can both be safe."
Clinton called the shootings "devastating" and urged the country to work together. “We must not turn our backs on each other. We must not be indifferent to each other," Clinton said in a statement. "We must all stand together to reject violence and strengthen our communities."
Speaking at the White House, Obama said that with this week's Republican convention followed next week by the Democratic convention in Philadelphia, political rhetoric would likely be more overheated than usual.
"We don't need inflammatory rhetoric, we don't need careless accusations thrown around to score political points or to advance an agenda. We need to temper our words and open our hearts, all of us," Obama told reporters.
There were no plans to delay Monday's start of the Cleveland convention, where thousands of Republican delegates are gathering amid a threat of protests both for and against Trump, 70, a businessman-turned-candidate.
Security was extraordinarily tight with downtown streets lined by concrete traffic dividers and tall metal fences, propelled by a new urgency after an attacker drove his truck into a holiday crowd in Nice, France, last week, killing 84 people.
Jeff Larson, chief executive officer of the convention, said he was not worried about the open carry law.
"There's going to be plenty of law enforcement in downtown Cleveland," he told reporters. "I feel good about the security and what we've done."
Trump sought to link the violence to the U.S.-led fight against Islamic State, writing: "We are TRYING to fight ISIS, and now our own people are killing our police. Our country is divided and out of control. The world is watching."
Trump enters the crucial week trailing Clinton in most national opinion polls and needs a bounce from the convention to vault him into a more competitive position.
Republican strategist Hogan Gidley said the violence gave relevance to Trump's message.
"It's something that Donald Trump and his crowd were already prepared to talk about," he said. "This is an epidemic in this country now and we've got to solve it."
Democratic strategist David Axelrod tweeted that Trump's effort to make himself a law-and-order candidate reminded him of a similar attempt by Richard Nixon in 1968, when the Republican won his first presidential election.
"Someone's been studying '68," Axelrod tweeted.
Trump's goal at the convention is to get more American voters to take a fresh look at him and, he hopes, to see him in a more favourable light, after his victory over 16 other Republican candidates in a brutal battle marked by insults and inflammatory rhetoric that left many in the party divided.
To that end, many speakers will talk about their views on Trump, from daughter Ivanka to women's pro golfer Natalie Gulbis."It's going to be a very personal convention. I mean, you’re going to have his family speaking. You're going to have friends who have known him speaking," Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort told CBS's "Face the Nation."
Many longtime party fixtures are staying away.
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, who has been a private counsellor to Trump, said the convention would help Trump pivot to the general election.
"He's never run for anything before. ... I think it's just taken longer to pivot, and I think he's pivoting," Priebus told NBC's "Meet the Press."
The convention will also provide Republican faithful with their first look at his vice presidential running mate, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, who was announced on Saturday after a messy selection process.
Hoping to win over more traditional Republicans, Trump picked the social conservative Pence over two other finalists, former House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.
The disorganized nature of the running mate rollout - in which Trump failed to fully project the power of the partnership  - had some Republicans worried that they could see more of the same at Cleveland.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Even gun rights advocates are questioning whether people should be allowed to carry rifles and handguns during protests at this week's Republican National Convention in Cleveland in the wake of the shootings of six police officers in Baton Rouge.
Backers as well as opponents of presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump have expressed concerns about the prospect of weapons being carried in open sight around the convention site.
Ohio is among the states that allow licensed gun owners to carry their weapons in public, and gun rights activists, particularly in Texas, have taken to expressing that right often in large-scale events.
Bill Morris, a 50-year-old police officer and Trump supporter from Alliance, Ohio, said he normally supports the open carry law but thinks it would be unwise to flaunt weapons in a year in which violence has broken out at campaign rallies.
"As a police officer I am very much in favour of the Second Amendment and the right to bear arms, but in a situation like this I don't see what good it does to open carry," Morris said near the convention hall, referring to the U.S. constitutional amendment that protects the right to keep and bear arms.
"You don't go walking around Washington, D.C., with a rifle, and I don't see why you should do it here."
Across town at a rally convened by liberals opposed to Trump, Tijuana Morris, a 61-year-old retired police officer from Detroit, sounded a similar note.
"I have a right to carry. And I don't have my weapon here today because we don't need any more violence," she said. "There is so much anger there and all you need is one person pulls their gun and makes a mistake."
On Sunday, a lone gun rights activist bearing arms showed up at a demonstration in Cleveland's Public Square. He admitted he had not expected to be alone the day before the start of the convention.
"This is a statement. I'm not going to be wandering around like this except in situations like this," said Steve Thacker, a 57-year-old former U.S. Marine who had an AR-15-style rifle slung over his shoulder, an assortment of ammunition magazines in a vest and a .45 caliber handgun strapped to his thigh.
He appeared shortly after a gunman killed three police officers and wounded three others in Baton Rouge, where police earlier this month shot dead a black man while responding to a report that he had threatened someone with a gun.
That shooting, coupled with the fatal police shooting of another black man in Minnesota a day later, triggered protests in U.S. cities over police conduct. Five Dallas police officers were killed by a black gunman that same week.
"The police are putting their lives on the line every day to protect the people," Thacker said. "When somebody targets officers like this it is the greatest show of cowardice I've ever seen. So, drop the hammer on them."
In the so-called event zone at the Republican convention, a 1.7-square-mile (4.4-square-km) area, authorities have banned items such as tennis balls, steel-pointed umbrellas and wood posts, but firearms are permitted under state law.
In a smaller "hard zone" surrounding the convention hall, which is temporarily under federal jurisdiction, guns are banned, meaning delegates cannot be armed on the convention floor.
The head of Cleveland's police union, however, on Sunday urged Ohio Governor John Kasich to suspend laws allowing the open display of firearms during the convention. Kasich, who had challenged Trump for the Republican nomination, said he lacked the legal authority to take such a step.
Trump, a billionaire real estate mogul from New York, has courted controversy with his calls to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and restrict immigration by Muslims, steps he describes as necessary to protect Americans' security.
Shane Chodok, a 43-year-old maintenance worker at Cleveland State University and Trump supporter, said he supported open carry activists, though he was not carrying a weapon on Sunday.
"You have to have citizens ready to arm themselves to protect others. If you don't have open carry, what do you have? Mass murders like the ones in Orlando," Chodok said, referring to last month's massacre in a gay night club. "That (open carry) to the criminals sends a signal, and when they see it they are going somewhere else."
WASHINGTON/KANSAS CITY, Mo. (Reuters) - A former U.S. Marine sergeant who served in Iraq and made the dean's list in college has been identified as the gunman who killed three police officers and wounded three others in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on Sunday, according to a government source with knowledge of the investigation.
The suspect, Gavin Eugene Long, 29, was from Kansas City, Missouri, another source familiar with the investigation told Reuters. Divorced and living in a working-class neighbourhood, Missouri records show he had no criminal history.
It was not immediately clear how Long, who was black, ended up in Baton Rouge, where police killed him in a shootout on his 29th birthday, according to media reports. The city has become a flashpoint for protests after police shot and killed Alton Sterling, a black man, outside a convenience store there on July 5.
A website, social media accounts and YouTube videos that appear tied to Long include complaints about police abuse of African-Americans and indicate he recently joined demonstrations in Dallas, where a black former member of the U.S. Army Reserve killed five officers two days after Sterling's death.
“Violence is not THE answer (its a answer), but at what point do you stand up so that your people dont become the Native Americans...EXTINCT?” Long tweeted on Wednesday.
A website named “convoswithcosmo” that features self-help, health and relationship advice was owned by a Gavin Long at a Kansas City address, according to online records. As of Sunday night, police in Kansas City had cordoned off the block where that address is located. That address also appears in local court records for a Gavin Long in two separate civil cases.
In a YouTube video posted on July 10, the host of “Convos with Cosmos” says he is in Dallas and had gone to the city to join protests there. The man says that African-Americans are oppressed and questions why white American revolutionaries are praised for fighting their oppressors but African ones are not.
Later in the video, he suggests that only violence and financial pressure will cause change.
“We know what it’s going to take. It’s only fighting back or money. That’s all they care about,” he says to the camera. “Revenue and blood, revenue and blood, revenue and blood. Nothing else.”
A government source said federal officials were reviewing the web postings but could not definitively link them to Long.
Long was affiliated with the anti-government New Freedom Group, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person briefed on the investigation. A spokeswoman for the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremist groups, said she had no information about such a group.
Reuters was not able to confirm the existence of the New Freedom Group.
Records provided by the U.S. Marines show Long received a number of awards during his five years in the military, including a good conduct medal.
He served in the Marines from August 2005 to August 2010, and rose to the rank of sergeant, according to Yvonne Carlock, deputy public affairs officer for the U.S. Marines. Long was deployed to Iraq from June 2008 to January 2009.
CBS News reported that he left the Marines with an honourable discharge, but Carlock would not confirm that detail.
Public records show Long had lived in Kansas City and Grandview, Missouri, as well as San Diego and Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
He divorced his wife in 2011, with no children at the time, according to Missouri court records. A home that appears to be the last-known address for his ex-wife was vacant on Sunday.
No relatives for Long could be reached by phone.
Long was a defendant in a case involving delinquent city taxes that was filed in March and dismissed in June, according to court records.
He attended the University of Alabama for one semester in spring 2012 and made the dean's list for academic achievement, said university spokeswoman Monica Watts.
"The university police had no interaction with him while he was a student," she said in an email.
(Reuters) - The six Baton Rouge, Louisiana, police officers killed or wounded in an attack on Sunday morning ranged from a newcomer to the force to veteran officers, officials said, in the latest mass shooting to afflict a U.S. city.
Three officers died and a fourth was fighting for his life after the attack by a suspect who opened fire on them in Louisiana's capital city.
The suspect, identified by a U.S. official as Gavin Long of Kansas City, Missouri, was believed to have acted alone.
The dead included Montrell Jackson, a 32-year-old new father who had served for 10 years with the Baton Rouge Police Department, and Matthew Gerald, at 41 a newly minted law enforcement officer with a military background, the police department said on its Facebook page.
Also slain was Sheriff's Deputy Brad Garafola, 45, a father of four, local media reported, citing Sheriff Sid Gautreaux and Garafola's wife, Tonja.
"He loved us so much," Tonja Garafola told the Baton Rouge Advocate newspaper. "He didn't deserve this."
Friends and relatives of Jackson took to Facebook to remember him.
“Rest in Peace to my former partner and one of the best cops I've ever known... His name was Montrell Jackson!” Facebook user Marcus Tillman said in a post, which received more than 8,000 likes and 6,000 shares by midday on Sunday. "He was a black life that apparently didn't matter to the one that took it!”
The Facebook page shows several pictures of a baby boy, and comments suggested that the child was Jackson's son.
"Cuz, this is you all over again," commenter Catina Williams Alexander wrote beneath the photo of the child. The Facebook page includes a picture of a police badge, posted in 2015.
Jonathan Saunders, a friend of Jackson, said the officer was a big man - but gentle and kind.
"He was 220 pounds of Teddy Bear," said Saunders, who now lives in New Orleans and once worked at a Laser Tag business where Jackson was a part-time security guard. "If you needed a hug, you could walk up to him and hug him. He cared about everybody."
Saunders said in a phone interview that Jackson's child was just a few months old.
A Facebook page belonging to Matthew Gerald in Baton Rouge featured images of law enforcement badges, and friends and family posted condolences on a page that appeared to belong to his wife.
Earlier in the day, Dechia Badeaux Gerald posted a news video of the shooting aftermath with the comment: "Everyone please pray!!! My husband along with others is out there."
A 41-year-old sheriff's deputy was in critical condition, "fighting for his life as we speak," said Gautreaux.
In addition, one sheriff's deputy was in surgery for non-life-threatening injuries, Gautreaux said. A 41-year-old Baton Rouge police officer, on the force for nine years, also received a non-life-threatening injury, Dabadie said.
"We are grieving for each other, we are grieving for our loss and we are grieving for our families," Gautreaux told a news conference on Sunday.
(Reuters) - Before the killing of three law enforcement officers on Sunday and the fatal shooting of a black man by police earlier this month, Baton Rouge was a city divided between the police and the policed.
Tensions in Louisiana's state capital go back years. For many residents, the police force has been viewed as overly aggressive and unrepresentative of a city where over half the 230,000 residents are black and where racial problems date back decades.
Minorities are "very wary of police and often afraid of them," says Michele Fournet, a veteran Baton Rouge criminal defence lawyer.
It was unclear whether there was a link between Sunday's shootings and the recent unrest over the police killings of black men in Baton Rouge and Minnesota. Police told CNN the shootings on Sunday did not appear to be race-related.
Officers were responding to a call of shots fired when they were shot in what Baton Rouge Mayor Kip Holden described as "an ambush-style deal." Three officers were killed and three others wounded. The gunman is dead.
"It is unspeakable that these men risking their lives to protect and serve this community were taken out the way that they were," Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards told a news briefing.
"The hatred just has to stop," he said.
Baton Rouge has been one of America's most crime-plagued cities. In 2015, it had 60 homicides, 98 rapes and 809 robberies, among the highest rates of violent crime for a U.S. city of its size.
In recent years, local activists have urged law enforcement to spend more time in neighbourhoods as part of "community policing."
Many would also like the city to hire more black officers.
Last month, the city's police department held a second "summer camp day" with local children, which was seen by some residents as an effort to improve relations with the community.
Baton Rouge Police Chief Carl Dabadie Jr. "Wanted the community to be able to interact with the police in a positive manner," said Simone Higginbotham, a 45-year-old resident who publishes a free, local magazine.
"He wanted to go back to the times when kids wanted to grow up and become police officers."
Calls for community policing have been growing across the country since the 2014 police shooting of black teenager Michael Brown by a white officer in Ferguson, Missouri.
A wave of anti-police protests has spread, fuelled by a series of fatal encounters between police and members of minority groups.
A Baton Rouge police spokesmen said the department had made significant strides toward improving diversity on its force.
In 1980, when Baton Rouge was put under a federal consent decree to improve its minority recruiting, about 10 percent of the department’s 516 employees were black. As of June this year, 201 of 657 officers are black, or 30 percent, according to police department data.
Blacks made up about 55 percent of Baton Rouge’s population in 2010, according to U.S. government data.
Alton Sterling, the Baton Rouge man whose shooting death at the hands of police on July 5 triggered protests across the country, had peddled CDs for years, and law enforcement officers would have known he was not a threat if they were more familiar with the area, local residents said.
One officer is notorious for harassing local black residents to the point where he has been given a street nickname of "Bro Stupid," said Burnell Williams, who works with at-risk youth and ex-prisoners for the nonprofit group Against All Odds.
Michael Mitchell, 33, a motivational speaker and minister who lives near the store where Sterling was killed, said relations had long been strained between the police and the neighbourhood.
"It added a match to fuel that was already there," he said.
In Dallas, where five police officers were killed on July 7 during an otherwise peaceful protest over the Louisiana and Minnesota shootings, Police Chief David Brown told reporters that community policing was the best way to deter crime and protect officers.
Brown, a 33-year department veteran, noted that 2015 was the 12th year of crime reduction in Dallas, more than any other major American city.
Police "have done this by also protecting the civil rights of our citizens," Brown said.
(Reuters) - Three police officers were shot to death and three others wounded in Baton Rouge on Sunday, less than two weeks after a black man was killed by police in the Louisiana capital, sparking nationwide protests.
The officers appeared to have been caught off guard, according to a recording of police radio that began with calm exchanges and then quickly turned into frantic shouting.
In the first 14 minutes of the recording, there were several instances of "officer down" or "deputy down."
This is a timeline of how events unfolded. (All in Central time)
8:40 a.m.: A police officer at Airline Highway and Old Hammond Highway in Baton Rouge alerts a police dispatcher that a woman called to report a man with a coat and assault rifle behind a store, according to the police recording. The store is later identified as B-Quick Convenience store, around a mile away from the Baton Rouge Police headquarters.
8:41 a.m.: First instance of "officer down" comes one minute into the recording. "Oh there's shots fired! Officer down!" a male voice shouts. "Shots fired! Officer down! Got a city officer down." Replies, though largely unintelligible due to the quality of the recording, appeared calm. The officer then says: "Don't know where the subject's shooting from!"
8:43 a.m.: Police have yet to locate the shooter. A male officer says: "He is not in sight. Possible sniper."
8:44 a.m.: Police appears to request air support. A female voice says: "Subject's supposed to be at Benny's Car Wash. Still shooting."
8:45 a.m.: Barely a minute later, another officer is injured. "I'm hit, left arm, argh," a male officer says. The response, from a female voice, was just two syllables, "10-four," a phrase commonly used in law enforcement to denote acknowledgement.
8:46 a.m.: A male voice says: "Officer down. I don't know whose radio is this, but officer down."
8:47 a.m.: An officer says something unintelligible, though sirens could be heard in the background. Another officer says: "All units be advised, shots are still being fired."
8:49 a.m.: An officer shouts. He is unintelligible aside from "officer down." Another officer says, "Right here, officer down. "Two down back here," a different officer says. A fourth voice then says some officers are being taken to hospital, "I'll be trailing them, alright?"
8:50 a.m.: "I'm behind the (unintelligible), I've got one down," an officer says. A male voice says, "Transporting an officer."
8:51 a.m.: "We have an officer down," a male voice says, requesting evacuation.
8:52 a.m.: Officers relay witness accounts of the shooter: "He had a mask on," "all black, carrying AR," a reference to the AR-15 assault rifle.
8:53 a.m.: "We've got a deputy down!"
8:54 a.m.: "Deputy down" heard again.
9:06 a.m.: A video on social media from an eyewitness(@Customthoughts_) at a Walmart store in Old Hammond/Airline shows a police chopper circling the area with caption: "They just going in a circle looking for the people who was shooting".
9:56 a.m.: An image on social media from eyewitness (@Customthoughts_) shows police officers behind police cars with caption: "Police hiding behind their cars with their guns".
10:00 a.m.: Baton Rouge Police Corporal L'Jean Mckneely Jr tells media: "We're securing the area with a deceased suspect, a suspect that has been killed. We're making sure there aren't any explosives in the area." Mckneely says police sent a robot inside the B-Quick Convenience Store near the suspect's body to determine if there are any explosives in the store, according to media reports.
Around 12 p.m.: East Baton Rouge Sheriff's office describes the scene on Airline Highway as "active" and advised the public to steer clear of the area.
The Facebook post also says: "Three law enforcement are confirmed dead, three others injured. One suspect is dead, law enforcement believes two others may be at large. Asking the public if they see anything suspicious please call 911 immediately."
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton called the shooting on Sunday that killed three police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, "devastating."
"There is no justification for violence, for hate, for attacks on men and women who put their lives on the line every day in service of our families and communities," Clinton said in a statement.
“Today's devastating assault on police officers in Baton Rouge is an assault on all of us," she said.
SAN ANTONIO, Venezuela (Reuters) - Thousands of Venezuelans streamed into neighboring Colombia on Sunday to take advantage of a temporary opening of the border to buy food and medicine unavailable at home in their country's collapsing economy.
Socialist President Nicolas Maduro shut the border last year in an effort to crack down on smuggling of subsidized products. Venezuela's product shortages have since worsened, creating further incentives to buy goods in Colombia and bring them back.
A plunge in global oil prices have left the OPEC nation's government unable to maintain lavish subsidies created during the rule of late President Hugo Chavez, while currency controls have left businesses struggling to obtain raw materials and machine parts.
Venezuelans routinely spend hours in lines at home seeking items ranging from corn flour to cancer medication to auto parts. Shoppers complain of violence in lines, and looting is on the rise.
Bus terminals were packed and hotels filled to capacity in the border town of San Antonio, with many traveling hundreds of miles to shop.
"We got here at 2:00 a.m. and slept here in the street. I came to buy medicine because I can't find any in my country," said Erna Millan, 59, who drove 12 hours with two friends with the equivalent of about $30 in cash to buy medicine.
"I also came to buy a Cesarean section kit for my daughter, who is about to give birth," she said.
Crowds of people flooded the bridge that links San Antonio to the Colombian city of Cucuta to cross the border on foot, at times singing the national anthem or chanting "This government is going to fall!"
The governor of Venezuela's state of Tachira opened the border last Sunday, attracting some 35,000 people, and this weekend allowed crossings both Saturday and Sunday.
Colombia's government said 44,000 people crossed on Saturday to buy food, medicine and cleaning products and said it expected that number to almost double on Sunday.
"I've come to buy what I can't find in the country - rice, beans, lentils, sugar, toilet paper," said Elizabeth Perez, 47, a public employee. "I came a few days ago with a group of people so I could cross into Colombia today. We're only eating once a day."
Maduro says socialist policies helped reduce poverty in Venezuela during Chavez's 14-year rule and insists his government is now the victim of an "economic war" led by political adversaries with the help of the United States.
Venezuelan officials acknowledge some difficulties, but accuse media of exaggerating problems to destabilize the government.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States is not taking any offensive military actions with the goal of destabilising South Sudan, and is only sending a small contingent to assist its embassy in the country, which has been gripped by violence between rival troops, the State Department said on Sunday.
The United States wants to reassure the people and the government of South Sudan that it has no plans to target any government or military leaders or import special military equipment with the goal of destabilising the nation, State Department Deputy Spokesperson Mark Toner in a statement.
"Any suggestion that the United States has done so or will do so is false, baseless, and not in the interest of peace in South Sudan," he also said.
President Barack Obama on Friday said he would deploy up to 200 U.S. troops equipped with combat equipment to South Sudan to protect U.S. citizens and the embassy in Juba, with troops initially stationed in neighbouring Uganda.
Forces loyal to South Sudan's President Salva Kiir and VicePresident Riek Machar engaged in five days of street battles with anti-aircraft guns, attack helicopters and tanks until a ceasefire was reached on Monday.
The fighting prompted the United Nations and some countries to withdraw non-essential personnel.
To help keep its embassy open and help non-emergency workers to depart, the United States sent military personnel to  Juba on July 12, Toner said.
"Citizens of Juba can expect to see a rotation in military personnel during the week of July 18," he said. "This rotation of troops is to replace not reinforce the number of military personnel. All of the additional troops will return home when the need for additional security no longer exists."
YAOUNDE (Reuters) - Eleven hostages from Cameroon were freed on Sunday following 16 months of captivity, after having been abducted by a militia group from the Central African Republic, a statement from the Cameroonian presidency said.
The hostages included a local mayor, Mama Abakai, and 12 others, but two died in captivity, said President Paul Biya in the statement, adding that the crime would not go unpunished.
It was not clear which militia abducted them or how they were freed.
They were kidnapped in March 2015 by heavily armed men while returning from a funeral in Cameroon's northern Gbabio district, and taken over the nearby border to the Central African Republic.
"The Cameroonian hostages were freed today and they are en route to Yaounde," Governor Grégoire Mvono told Reuters.
An upsurge of violence in the Central African Republic that began in 2013 has caused thousands to flee across the border and increased insecurity in parts of Cameroon.
Islamist militant group Boko Haram has also staged numerous cross-border attacks from Nigeria into Cameroon's Far North Region. 
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama on Sunday strongly condemned the shootings in Baton Rouge that killed three police officers and wounded three others, saying there was "no justification" for the violence.
"We may not yet know the motives for this attack, but I want to be clear: There is no justification for violence against law enforcement. None. These attacks are the work of cowards who speak for no one," Obama said in a statement.
Obama added that he has offered the "full support of the federal government" to Louisiana's governor, Baton Rouge's mayor and local law enforcement. "Justice will be done," he said.
WASHINGTON/ SAYLORSBURG, Pennsylvania (Reuters) - Turkey will reopen its Incirlik air base to U.S. planes, used to attack Islamic State, following an attempted coup, the Pentagon said on Sunday.
"After close coordination with our Turkish allies, they have reopened their airspace to military aircraft. As a result, counter-ISIL coalition air operations at all air bases in Turkey have resumed," a Pentagon statement said.
Turkey, a major U.S. ally, has allowed the United States to use the air base in Incirlik to launch attacks against the militant group. Those air operations were temporarily halted following the coup attempt on Friday.
Secretary of State John Kerry said on CNN's "State of the Union" that he had spoken with Turkey's foreign minister three times on Saturday.
"They assure me that there will be no interruption of our counter-ISIL efforts," Kerry said, using an acronym to refer to the Islamic State.
Kerry said that the difficulty for U.S. planes accessing Incirlik may have been a result of planes flown in support of the coup using the air base to refuel.
On NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday, Kerry was asked if Turkey's president Tayyip Erdogan would use the coup attempt to seize more power.
Kerry said such a move by Erdogan would be a challenge to his relationship with Europe, with NATO and others.
"We have urged them not to reach out so far that they are creating doubts about their commitment to the democratic process," he said.
Erdogan has blamed his rival, Fethullah Gulen, for masterminding the coup attempt. Gulen, who is currently living in Pennsylvania, has denied any involvement.
Kerry said he had no evidence at this time that Gulen was behind the plot to seize power from Erdogan, but he urged Turkish authorities to compile evidence as rapidly as possible so the United States can evaluate whether Gulen should be extradited to Turkey.
In an interview from Saylorsburg, Pennsylvania, Gulen told reporters he did not know who was behind the attempted coup and suggested it might have been staged by Erdogan's government to seize more control.
"This is not the pattern of an attempted coup," Gulen said through an interpreter.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Republican Donald Trump responded to the killing of three police officers in Louisiana on Sunday by renewing his call for greater leadership and "law and order."
"We grieve for the officers killed in Baton Rouge today. How many law enforcement and people have to die because of a lack of leadership in our country?" Trump, the party's presumptive presidential nominee posted on Facebook. "We demand law and order."
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Brexit minister said he wanted a generous settlement for Britons living in the EU and for Europeans in Britain after the country voted to leave the 28-nation bloc, but declined to fully guarantee the rights of EU citizens.
David Davis, who has said Britain should begin the formal process of leaving the EU by triggering Article 50 in early 2017, said on Sunday that the rights of EU citizens living in Britain should be agreed along with those of Britons in Europe.
"I want to see a generous settlement for the people here already because they didn't pick this circumstance," Davis told Sky News on Sunday.
"We want to do that at the same time as we get a similarly generous settlement for British citizens living in the EU," he said.
Davis said he backed the rights of those living and working in Britain and expected all citizens to be well-protected. However, he suggested that there could be limits if there is an increase in immigration from the 27 remaining EU countries before Brexit occurs.
"One way of dealing with it could be saying OK, only people arriving before a certain date get this protection," he said, declining to fully guarantee the rights of those already in Britain.
Border control was an important theme in the June 23 referendum in which 52 percent of those who voted backed leaving the European Union, however any limitations could be a concern for Britain's largest firms, many of which have spoken in favour of free movement.
Davis, who said his newly created Department for Exiting the European Union currently has 40 staff but will grow to a "couple of hundred", said Britain will now be able to negotiate better trade deals and also keep access to the European single market.
"It will keep its access, but whether it keeps tariff-free access is the issue and ...that is what we are aiming for," he said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Turkey's bungled military coup has shaken foreign investors and stoked fears about political stability that are expected to weigh on Turkish financial assets in days and weeks to come.
On Friday night, a group of rebel soldiers using tanks, attack helicopters and fighter jets attempted to topple President Tayyip Erdogan, strafing parliament and intelligence headquarters in Ankara while seizing a bridge and surrounding the airport in Istanbul.
Yet the coup, in which at least 265 people were killed, was thwarted as Erdogan rushed back to Istanbul from a Mediterranean holiday and urged people to take to the streets to support his government.
The latest turmoil adds to Turkey's economic headaches, with investors already concerned that a gaping current account deficit could making the country vulnerable to a run on the lira, and worried about Erdogan's push to consolidate power, which has seen the departure of some key economic reformers such as Ahmed Davutoglu, the prime minister.
Turkey is largely dependent on imports for its growing energy needs and relies heavily on tourism as well as investment flows to stock and bond markets to help fund its current account deficit, which stood at over $32 billion in 2015, or about 4.5 percent of GDP.
"Given the sharp rise in political instability and Turkey's extremely vulnerable external profile, which is likely to worsen as tourism gets hit further, we think Turkish assets are likely to remain under pressure," said Salman Ahmed, chief global strategist at Lombard Odier.
Jorge Mariscal, chief investment officer for emerging markets at UBS Wealth Management, said the coup was a reminder of the importance of the country-specific risks in emerging markets:
"If uncertainty persists, it will likely induce capital flight out of Turkey."
Erdogan is a polarising figure whose Islamist-rooted ideology lies at odds with the secular principles of modern Turkey espoused by nationalists and others. His AK Party has long had strained relations with the military, which has a history of mounting coups to defend secularism, although it has not seized power directly since 1980.
"I hadn't expected a military coup, although they have had them in the past," said a prominent U.S. emerging market debt fund manager, declining to be named.
"I've been underweight for a while. And before this latest coup attempt, I felt the situation had gotten out of control in that Erdogan was usurping political power."
Turkey's lira TRY= tumbled nearly 5 percent against the dollar in late trading on Friday - its steepest one-day fall since the financial crisis in 2008. Since the start of the year, the lira has lost 3.4 percent, sharply underperforming emerging market peers such as South Africa's rand ZAR= which has strengthened more than 6 percent, or Russia's rouble which has added nearly 15 percent against the dollar.
While MSCI's Turkey index in dollar terms .dMITR00000PUS has risen by nearly 18 percent year-to-date, it has also underperformed its peers in South Africa .dMIZA00000PUS and Russia .dMIRU00000PUS, which have seen their indexes jump nearly 20 and 25 percent respectively over the same period.
Turkish stocks have not traded since the coup.
Turkey's government tried to soothe markets' nerves on Sunday. Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek said the government was in charge and had decided on "all necessary measures" after consulting with the central bank and treasury. The central bank pledged to provide unlimited liquidity to banks.
Investors have already grown more wary of assets in Turkey, whose economy which is smarting from slowing exports and weak investment. Some economists have forecast that tourism revenue will drop by a quarter this year, costing around $8 billion.
Turkey with its large financing needs has benefited more than some of its peers from the prospect of a Federal Reserve interest rate hike moving further into the future, especially given the recent rapprochement between Russia and Turkey which could bring Russian tourists back into the country.
Yet the coup could bring more pain for Turkish assets.
"It is a disaster for Turkey where the risk premium on the political side must move up sharply after normalising recently as the politics seemed nice and straightforward with an AKP majority and Erdogan following a 'predictable' path of power consolidation," said Emad Mostaque from Eclectic Strategy investment consultancy in London.
Investors expected the cost of insuring exposure to Turkish government debt to rise sharply on Monday. Five-year Turkish credit default swaps (CDS) last traded at 223 basis points on Friday ahead of the coup, having lost more than 40 basis points since the start of the year. TRGV5YUSAC=MP TRGV5YUSAC=MG
Michael Harris, Turkey Strategist and Head of Research at Renaissance Capital. While the coup had been foiled quickly, this was far from the end for political risk.
"It now leaves the ball totally in President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's court," said
Erdogan could opt to reconcile with opposition parties, said Harris, or - more likely - call a snap election to capitalise on the crisis, gain a majority that would allow him to change the constitution and consolidate his power further, which could bring political clarity but heighten the risk of Kurdish separatism and social instability.
On Saturday, French President Francois Hollande said he expected a period of repression in Turkey.
Some 6,000 members of the armed forces and judiciary have been arrested in the wake of the coup.
Given the situation in Turkey, Harris said Russia, Brazil and South Africa all offered better ways to gain exposure to emerging markets.
"Unless Erdogan seeks reconciliation, 2016 Turkey trade is over."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - When the chips are down in Europe, everyone turns to Angela Merkel for a solution. But the German chancellor often sits on her hands until the last minute, then does the minimum necessary to keep the show on the road.
Since last month's shock British referendum vote to leave the European Union, all eyes have been on Berlin to indicate a way out of danger for the 27 members who will remain.
As usual, Merkel, the continent's most powerful and experienced leader, is biding her time and letting underlings air their differences without tipping her hand before she departs for her three-week summer break this week.
Votes had barely been tallied in Britain when her vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, leader of the center-left Social Democrats, and European Parliament President Martin Schulz rushed out a 10-point plan for a "refoundation" of Europe.
Lamenting that ever more citizens doubted Europe's ability to deliver a better future, they called for a more federal Europe with the European Commission as its government, and a more flexible, growth-friendly economic policy turning away from austerity to investment in an "industrial renaissance".
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble rapidly shot down those ideas, rejecting any need for economic stimulus spending and reaffirming his balanced budget target up to 2020 at a time when many in Europe are pleading with Berlin to borrow money free of interest and invest massively in infrastructure.
He refuses to accept that surplus countries like Germany, which has a giant current account surplus of eight percentage points of GDP, should help poorer deficit countries adjust by spending more on public investment and boosting consumption.
Furthermore, Schaeuble said those calling for a bold federal leap forward in integration had failed to understand the public disenchantment with the EU that fueled the British vote and is driving nationalistic euroskepticism elsewhere in Europe.
Rather than give more power to Brussels, the veteran conservative, who once advocated a federal "core Europe", said it was time for national governments to take matters more into their own hands if the Commission was unable to do the job.
Schaeuble is blocking the next steps forward in euro zone risk-sharing - the creation of a European bank deposit insurance system and of a fiscal backstop for the currency area's single resolution fund to help wind down failed banks.
The 71-year-old finance minister has also managed to delay any debt relief for Greece until after next year's German election in September and maneuvered to delay public support for Italy's ailing banks, saying there was no acute crisis.
Even the German head of the euro zone's rescue fund, Klaus Regling, argued last week that Berlin and its partners needed to go further to make the currency area less vulnerable to shocks.
Restructuring Italian banks' bad loans and forcing investors including retail savers to take losses before any public money can be injected under the EU's new bank recovery and resolution rules could trigger precisely that kind of post-Brexit shock.
Regling called for completing European banking union by phasing in a deposit insurance scheme after a transition period. He also advocated a limited budgetary capacity for the euro area to cushion economic shocks hitting only some countries.
Both proposals have so far been anathema to Schaeuble, who speaks for a school of German fiscal hawks in warning that such steps would lead to unacceptable permanent north-south transfers inside the monetary union.
At least there is debate in Germany about what the EU should do to regain momentum and overcome the trauma of losing Britain, its second largest economy, even if much of it resembles shadow boxing before next year's German elections.
In many EU countries, politicians have simply fallen back on blaming Brussels, with some demanding the scalp of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a scapegoat.
To be sure, Juncker has contributed to the sense of disarray by first trying to rush an EU trade deal with Canada through the European Parliament without letting national lawmakers have a say, then reversing himself under pressure from governments.
The result is that the Canada deal could be bogged down for many months, perhaps indefinitely, and the chances of getting a bigger and more sensitive trade and investment partnership with the United States wrapped up and ratified seem even more remote.
No progress on monetary or banking union, deadlock on trade - that doesn't leave much scope for restoring public and financial market confidence in Europe.
The German and French foreign ministers, both social democrats, have issued more modest joint proposals for the EU to focus on internal and external security, managing migration and refugee flows, and boosting the economy and job creation.
Their nine-page paper, which would not require changing the EU's founding treaty with the risk of more referendum defeats, called for a European Security Compact with a more integrated foreign and security policy and a permanent civil-military chain of command for crisis management operations.
But when it came to the euro - the economic heart of the European project - their suggestions of investment-boosting measures by surplus countries and a common fiscal capacity(budget) for the euro zone, ran into the same stonewall in the German Finance Ministry.
Merkel has broadly welcomed the Franco-German paper and broadly adopted its focus on three main themes - migration, security and growth/jobs. Whether she is willing to overrule Schaeuble and take political risks before next year's federal elections is highly doubtful.
Yet without some initiative to provide fresh wind after the Brexit blow, the EU looks highly vulnerable to the next external shock, whether from Islamist militants, Italian banks or another surge in migration.
DUBAI (Reuters) - A Bahrain court on Sunday dissolved the main Shi'ite Muslim opposition group al-Wefaq, accusing it of helping to foster violence and terrorism, in an escalation of a crackdown on dissent in the U.S.-allied Gulf kingdom.
The official Bahrain News Agency (BNA) said the court ruled that Wefaq had taken aim at "respect for the rule of law and the foundations of citizenship based on coexistence, tolerance and respect for others; provided an atmosphere for the incubation of  terrorism, extremism and violence and for foreign interference in national affairs."
Its funds would be claimed by the state treasury, BNA said.
Bahrain, which hosts the U.S. Fifth Fleet, has a Shi'ite majority but a Sunni Muslim-led government, mainly drawn from the ruling al-Khalifa family. Seen by other Sunni-ruled Gulf kingdoms like Saudi Arabia as a bulwark against Iranian influence, it put down Arab Spring protests in 2011.
It drew U.S. and U.N. criticism in June when it moved to strip a top Shi'ite cleric's citizenship and announced it was suspending Wefaq and closing its offices.
Close ally Britain expressed deep concern at Sunday's ruling. In a statement, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson urged Bahrain to guarantee political freedoms for all its citizens.
He called for a dialogue among all sides to "promote social cohesion and inclusivity, including political representation, for all Bahrainis. I understand there is a right of appeal."
A U.S.-based rights group said the latest ruling had left no outlet for peaceful grievances in the island monarchy.
"Today’s decision is a dangerous mistake, leaving no real outlet for peaceful grievance," said Brian Dooley of Human Rights First. "The kingdom's government has told its people that from now on not only are you not allowed rights, you're not allowed to complain about it."
Bahraini Shi'ites complain of discrimination by the government. Since the authorities crushed street protests in 2011, demonstrators have clashed frequently with security forces, who have been targeted by several bomb attacks.
Bahraini authorities deny any discrimination. Bahrain has accused the opposition of undermining security and blamed the bombings on Iran and Lebanon's armed Shi'ite group Hezbollah. Iran and Hezbollah deny any involvement in Bahrain's unrest.
Dooley said U.S. President Barack Obama should respond swiftly by reimposing a ban on U.S. arms transfers to Bahrain’s military that the U.S. State Department imposed after the 20011 crackdown but lifted a year ago.
A State Department report delivered to Congress in June found Bahrain's national reconciliation efforts since 2011 had stalled, and it had not implemented recommendations to protect free expression. [nL1N19E1V1]
PARIS (Reuters) - France's foreign minister said on Sunday that questions needed to be asked on whether Turkey was a viable partner in the fight against Islamic State in Syria.
"There are questions that are being asked and we will ask them. It (Turkey) is partly viable, but there are suspicions as well. Let's be honest about this," Jean-Marc Ayrault told France 3 television.
He said he would raise the issue at meeting of the anti-Islamic state coalition in Washington next week.
A French official later sought to clarify Ayrault's comments, saying he had not meant to put in question Turkey's viability in the fight against Islamic State, and that Ankara remained a crucial partner for the coalition to that end.
"Turkey is a big country, a country that has a strategic role, is a NATO member, the biggest border with Syria and welcomes some 2.5 million Syrian refugees and is an ally," Ayrault said in the interview.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's supporters rallied in public squares, at Istanbul airport and outside his palace overnight in a show of defiance after a failed coup attempt on Friday killed at least 265 people and raised expectations of a heavy crackdown on dissent.
(Reuters) - Nekima Levy-Pounds, president of the Minneapolis chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, compares the city's mostly white police department to "an occupying force" when its officers go into black neighbourhoods.
    In Baton Rouge, minorities are "very wary of police and often afraid of them," says Michele Fournet, a veteran criminal defence lawyer there.
Long before they were rocked this month by local police killings of black men, the two U.S. cities were grappling with similar problems - police forces viewed by many as overly aggressive and unrepresentative of black communities.
Activists and residents in both places have urged law enforcement to spend more time in neighbourhoods building relationships and trust as part of "community policing" efforts. Many would also like the cities to hire more black officers.
Such calls having been growing across the country since the fatal police shooting of Michael Brown, a black teenager, by a white officer in Ferguson, Mo., in 2014. Since then, a wave of anti-police protests has spread across the country fuelled by high-profile police killings of other black men, including Baltimore police detainee Freddie Gray last year.
“Whether it’s Baton Rouge or Ferguson or Baltimore or Minnesota, we need more community policing," said Cleve Dunn Jr., a black business man and political consultant in Baton Rouge.
(Racial make-up of Baton Rouge, Minneapolis police: tmsnrt.rs/29Bf9We)
    Police spokesmen from Baton Rouge and Minneapolis, in statements, said their departments had each made significant strides toward diversity in their forces.
The Minneapolis Police Department said it has been "a national leader and has set national 'best practice' standards in community engagement and community policing."
Officials from St. Anthony, Minn., which provides police service to Falcon Heights and employs the officer who shot Castile, did not respond to questions.
Alton Sterling, the Baton Rouge man who was shot by police on July 5, had peddled CDs for years and law enforcement officers would have known he was not a threat if they were more familiar with the area, local residents said.
One officer is notorious for harassing local black residents, to the point where he has been given a street nickname of “Bro Stupid,” said Burnell Williams, who works with at-risk youth and ex-prisoners for the nonprofit group Against All Odds.
Blacks made up about 55 percent of Baton Rouge’s population in 2010, but only 30 percent of the police force in 2013, according to U.S. government data.
Similar disparities affect Minneapolis, near the tiny city of Falcon Heights where Philando Castile was killed by a police officer during a traffic stop on July 6.
Blacks in Minneapolis were 8.7 times more likely than whites to be arrested for low-level offences, such as trespassing and disorderly conduct, according to a study of arrests from 2012 to 2014 that the American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota published last year.
Blacks accounted for about 19 percent of Minneapolis' population in 2010 but just about 9 percent of the city's police officers in 2013, according to U.S. data.
Black residents of Minneapolis and nearby towns said the lack of a requirement for police to live in the jurisdictions they patrol has kept officers disconnected from neighbourhoods. Some U.S. cities have instituted residency requirements for police.
"You have mostly white officers patrolling a poor black neighbourhood where they have no real nexus to the community, where there are high rates of complaints against the use of excessive force by police and the over-criminalization of the African American community," Levy-Pounds said.
Some Minneapolis police and residents said staffing shortages limited officers' ability to do more community policing.
Bob Kroll, president of the city's police union, said the department needs to increase its numbers by about 20 percent. Without more officers, "you're just going call to call to call, 9-1-1," he said.
Ronald Edwards, a black civil rights activist in Minneapolis who contacted Reuters at the request of the police department, said he believed the city's police chief was doing her best to improve race relations.
However, he said "you don't have enough officers to deploy them and do the things that really begin to break down the barriers between people of different colours."
In Dallas, where five police officers were murdered in the wake of the shootings in Minnesota and Louisiana, police Chief David Brown told reporters on July 11 that community policing was the best way to deter crime and protect officers.
Brown, a 33-year department veteran, noted that 2015 was the 12th year of crime reduction in Dallas, more than any other major American city.
    Police "have done this by also protecting the civil rights of our citizens," Brown said of the decline.
DOHA (Reuters) - Saudi Arabian laws requiring women to have male guardians have been reformed in recent years but continue to restrict and endanger them, obstructing government plans to reform the economy, U.S.-based Human Rights Watch says in a report.
The report drew criticism on Sunday from a government rights official, who said the system was designed to protect and help women, and was less restrictive than portrayed by HRW.
Women in Saudi Arabia must usually obtain permission from a guardian - father, husband, or son - to travel, study or marry.
These laws, making women legal wards of a male relative and backed by a powerful clerical establishment, have in recent years been reformed, with women no longer needing to obtain male guardian permission to work, HRW said in the report, "Boxed In: Women and Saudi Arabia’s Male Guardianship System."
But the system remains largely intact and an impediment to realising women’s rights, it said.
Mufleh al-Qahtani, chairman of the government-licensed National Society for Human Rights, told Reuters the report confused tradition with state policy that was improving women's status.
"It conflates the laws on women's guardianship that authorities are being asked to amend or develop with customs prevailing in society that may... take time to change," he said.
Dozens of Saudi women interviewed by HRW said their lives were subject to male supervision when it came to applying for a passport, leaving the country, getting married and accessing courts and medical treatment.
A 25-year-old woman referred to as Zahra, whose father used to beat her and later refused to allow her to travel overseas to study, was quoted as telling HRW: "Whenever someone tells me, ‘You should have a five-year plan,’ I say I can’t. I’ll have a five-year plan and then my dad would disagree. Why have a plan?"
Other women told HRW their friends or relatives had sought to marry to escape strict, conservative, or abusive fathers and brothers. A woman named Tala said: "The guardianship system is always a nightmare. I don’t want to get married because I don’t want a stranger to control me ... Basically, it is slavery."
Women are not allowed to drive and face difficulty in many transactions such as renting an apartment, without a male relative.
But the late King Abdullah in 2011 gave women the right to vote and run for office in local elections, and in 2013 appointed 30 women to the Shura Council, the appointed parliament that discusses new laws and advises the government on legislation.
Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman unveiled in April an ambitious plan to transform the economy by 2030, which envisages increasing women's participation in the workforce to 30 percent from 22 percent.
HRW's Kristine Beckerle said the kingdom could not achieve this vision if it did not abolish male guardianship.
Officials often say the failure to end discrimination against women is not due to state policy but difficulties in implementation.
On the question of travel, Qahtani said: "There is no problem for any woman to travel in the absence of a dispute in the family. In the event of a dispute it must be resolved first to ensure each party fulfils its obligations towards the family."
He added: "One should bear in mind that Saudi society is conservative and some of the customs and traditions of the society need time to be adjusted."
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish leader Tayyip Erdogan may meet in August, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying by the RIA news agency.
Putin called the Turkish president and said he hoped Russian tourists would be protected in the aftermath of Friday night's failed coup attempt in Turkey, the Kremlin said in a statement on Sunday. The statement added that the two leaders would soon meet face-to-face.
Despite an agreement last month to resume bilateral cooperation, relations between the Kremlin and Erdogan remain strained over the Syria crisis and Turkey's shooting down of a Russian fighter jet in November.
Erdogan apologised to Putin in June over the downing of the plane, which was taking part in the Kremlin's military campaign in Syria. The Kremlin had responded to the incident by imposing restrictions on trade with Turkey.
The Kremlin said on Sunday that Putin called his Turkish counterpart after rebel soldiers used tanks, attack helicopters and fighter jets to try to topple Erdogan on Friday night, attacking parliament and the intelligence headquarters in Ankara while seizing a bridge and surrounding the airport in Istanbul.
The statement quoted Putin as telling Erdogan that Russia found anti-constitutional acts and violence unacceptable and was hoping for the restoration of order and stability in Turkey.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan vowed on Sunday to continue to clean the "virus" responsible for Friday's coup attempt from all state institutions - a reference to his longtime adversary, U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen.
Speaking at a funeral of people killed in Friday's violence, Erdogan said the coup attempt by the "terror group", led by Gulen, was put down by national will. He said members of the Gulen group, which he said have "ruined" the armed forces, are being arrested in all ranks within the army.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - A Palestinian man carrying pipe bombs and knives in his bag was arrested at a light railway station in Jerusalem during the morning rush hour on Sunday, Israeli police said.
"The plan was apparently to attack the light railway," Jerusalem police chief Yoram Halevi said in a statement.
An armed station security officer became suspicious of the man, a resident of the occupied West Bank aged in his 20s. He stopped the Palestinian at gunpoint and searched his bag on a busy central Jerusalem street at the start of the Israeli work week.
Police explosives experts found three pipe bombs, detonator wires, a cellphone and several knives in his bag, a police spokeswoman said. Two main streets were closed off while police defused the devices.
Since October, Palestinian street attacks have killed at least 33 Israelis and two visiting Americans. Israel has killed at least 202 Palestinians, 137 of whom it said were assailants. Others were killed during clashes and protests.
(Reuters) - A failed Turkish military coup attempt briefly closed the Bosphorus Strait to shipping traffic on Saturday, reminding the world of Turkey's huge and growing importance as a transit route for commodities between Russia, Central Asia and Europe.
Turkish authorities thwarted a coup by rebels to topple President Tayyip Erdogan.
Below are the key facts about Turkey's role as a major transit country for oil and grains, as well as a significant consumer of commodities such as natural gas and gold.
The Bosphorus is one of the world's most important chokepoints for the maritime transit of oil. Over 3 percent of global supply or 3 million barrels per day, mainly from Russia and the Caspian Sea, passes through the 17-mile waterway that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara and eventually to the Mediterranean.
The route, which also ships vast amounts of grains from Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan to world markets, was closed for several hours on Saturday for security reasons. Around one-quarter of the world's grain exports are shipped from Black Sea ports.
Only half a mile wide at the narrowest point, the Turkish Straits are among the world's most difficult waterways.
About 48,000 vessels transit the straits each year, making this area one of the world's busiest maritime gateways,  according to the U.S. government. Commercial shipping has the right of free passage through the straits in peacetime, although Turkey claims the right to impose regulations for safety and environmental purposes.
For U.S. government analysis of the role of the Bosphorus:
tinyurl.com/j5szs5c
Pipelines bypass the Bosphorus by carrying around 0.7 million bpd of oil from Caspian Sea countries such as Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan directly to Turkey's export terminals on the Mediterranean, such as the port of Ceyhan.
A BP-led (BP.L) group operating oil and gas pipelines running from Azerbaijan to Turkey via Georgia said there had been no disruption to shipments.
Ceyhan is also the final destination for an oil pipeline running from Iraqi Kurdistan and carrying some 0.5 million bpd. A source close to Kurdish oil export operations said they were flowing as usual.
Turkey also receives gas and some petrochemical products from neighbouring Iran. Iranian Mehr news agency said Iran had temporarily stopped exports of petrochemical products to Turkey due to a closure of the border between the two countries.
Besides its transit role, Turkey is also a very important consumer of commodities in its own right. It is one of the top five gas users in Europe, on a par with France.
Turkey refines slightly less than 1 million bpd of oil, making it one of the top seven consumers in Europe, on a par with the Netherlands. It oil comes from Iraq, the Caspian Sea, Iran and Russia. Turkey takes its gas mainly from Russia, Azerbaijan and Iran.
For U.S. government analysis of Turkish energy trends see:
tinyurl.com/z53uv5n
Turkey is the second-largest importer of Russian wheat after Egypt. It bought 3 million tonnes from July 2015 to May 2016. [GRA/RU]
It also imports barley and corn via Russia's Black Sea ports.
In total, Turkey is forecast to import 4.3 million tonnes of wheat in the current 2015/16 season, down from 5.95 million in 2014/15.
It is also forecast to import 900,000 tonnes of corn (maize) in 2015/16, down from 2.36 million in 2014/15. The drop  reflects a rise in domestic production.
Turkey is one of the top 10 gold markets in the world, with demand reaching 72 tonnes (around $3 billion) in 2015, according to data from the World Gold Council.
Gold is a traditional investment for many Turks seeking to hedge against sharp fluctuations in their currency.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel reacted tersely on Sunday to a thwarted coup in Turkey, saying it expected a new reconciliation deal between the two regional powers following a six-year rift to be implemented as planned.
Violence erupted in Turkey late on Friday after the start of the Jewish Sabbath, when most government business officially takes a break.
This allowed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu time to consider his response on the move against Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, long a critic of Israeli policies but now a key player in the rapprochement with Israel.
When the announcement came, it was brief and measured, coming three weeks after Israel and Turkey - once its principal Muslim ally - signed an accord to restore relations.
"Israel and Turkey recently agreed on a reconciliation process. We estimate that this process will continue, unrelated to the dramatic events in Turkey over the weekend," Netanyahu told his cabinet in televised comments.
On Saturday, a Foreign Ministry spokesman sent a text message to reporters on Saturday that spoke of Israel's respect for "the democratic process in Turkey".
Relations between the two countries crumbled after Israeli marines stormed a Turkish activist ship in May 2010 to enforce a naval blockade of the Hamas-run Gaza Strip, killing 10 Turks on board.
Israel, which had already offered its apologies for the raid, agreed under the deal to pay out $20 million to the bereaved and injured.
Both countries are to appoint ambassadors, and Turkey is to  pass legislation indemnifying Israeli soldiers as part of an agreement partly driven by the prospect of lucrative Mediterranean gas deals.
ATHENS (Reuters) - The Turkish soldiers who fled to Greece in a helicopter after a failed military coup against the government were brought before a prosecutor in the northern Greek city of Alexandroupolis on Sunday, accused of crossing into Greece illegally.
The eight men have sought political asylum in Greece, fearing their lives would be in danger in Turkey, the lawyer representing four of them told Greek TV. Turkey has said it wants the "traitors" extradited soon.
Rebel soldiers used tanks, helicopters and fighter jets to try to topple Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Friday night, strafing parliament and the intelligence headquarters in Ankara while seizing a bridge and surrounding the airport in Istanbul.
Vasiliki Marinaki, the lawyer representing four of the men, told Greece's Skai TV the men were following orders by their superiors to transport injured people from the streets of Istanbul via helicopter to ambulances elsewhere.
"That's what they did until they came under fire by police," Marinaki said. "They did not know a there was a coup and they were not involved in it," Marinaki said.
In a phone call late on Saturday, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras told Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan the requests would be processed "swiftly" but with "absolute respect" to what is stipulated by international law and human rights treaties.
His foreign minister, Nikos Kotzias, told his Turkish counterpart on Saturday it would be "borne very seriously in mind" by authorities that the arrested stand accused in their country of violating constitutional legality and attempting to overthrow democracy.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan welcomed Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's choice of Mike Pence as a running mate on Friday, saying the Indiana governor comes from "the heart of the conservative movement."
"I can think of no better choice for our vice-presidential candidate. We need someone who is steady and secure in his principles, someone who can cut through the noise and make a compelling case for conservatism. Mike Pence is that man," Ryan said in a statement.
(Reuters) - In 1990, during a close and bitter congressional race, Mike Pence came under attack for using campaign funds to pay for personal expenses, including his mortgage and credit card bills.
The expenditures were not illegal at the time, but proved difficult to explain for a candidate who had railed about the outsized role of money in politics.
Pence in turn blasted his opponent with attack ads, including one featuring a man in traditional Arab clothing who thanked Pence’s opponent in thickly accented English for policies that benefited Middle Eastern oil producers. The commercial was attacked by Arab-American groups, and the Indianapolis Star called it one of the two worst campaign commercials that year.
Pence, who is now Indiana’s governor and was selected this week to be Donald Trump’s presidential running mate, lost his 1990 race, but what he regretted more than losing, he later said, was his decision to sling mud.
In the 25 years since that loss, Pence’s political allies and enemies alike say he has steered clear of personal attacks. This could prove challenging when campaigning with Trump, who enthusiastically tears into his rivals.
Pence’s style is likely to cast him in a very different role from that of traditional vice presidential candidates, who often throw and take punches to allow presidential contenders to remain above the fray.
In the case of Trump and Pence, said Indianapolis University Professor Laura Merrifield Albright, the roles are likely to be reversed.
“It's a different dynamic. It's tough to imagine anyone out-trumping Trump,” she said, noting that he is “willing to do his own dirty work.”
Michael Totten, a retired architect who worked on Pence’s 1990 campaign, thinks the two candidates will complement one another. He dubbed Pence “the perfect No. 2,” a running mate who can “temper some of Trump's enthusiasm” and “be the calming voice." 
Neither Pence nor the Trump campaign immediately responded to a request for comment.
After losing his 1990 race, Pence apologised to his opponent for the oil advertisement.
He later told his colleague at a conservative think tank, William Styring, that he regretted the tone of the campaign. “I really screwed up on this. It's not me," Styring recalled Pence as saying.
In 1991, Pence wrote an apologetic article for the think tank's policy journal, titled “Confessions of a Negative Campaigner.”
After the defeat, Pence did not seek public office again for a decade. He worked at the Indiana Policy Review and hosted his own statewide conservative radio talk show, describing himself as “Rush Limbaugh on decaf.” He also hosted a morning TV show in Indianapolis from 1995 to 1999.
In 2000, Pence again ran for a U.S. House of Representatives seat, this time successfully. And he demonstrated that his 1990 mea culpa was more than just political theatre, observers of Indiana politics say. His opponents in campaigns after he re-entered politics describe him as extremely disciplined and cordial.
Melina Fox, Pence's Democratic challenger in 2002, said that his statements in the race were “calculated and thought-out.” Democrat Barry Welsh, who ran against him in 2006, 2008 and 2010, said Pence was invariably “polite, professional and gentlemanly.”
But some question how he will cope with being constantly challenged in a hard-fought presidential race. "He seems uncomfortable with difficult questions and does not take counterpunches very well," said Rebecca Pearcey, who ran the losing campaign of Pence’s opponent in the 2012 race for Indiana governor, Democrat John Gregg. "He doesn't engage. He operates as though the opponent is not there."  
Before being picked as Trump’s running mate, Pence was poised for a tight rematch race against Gregg. In recent months, Pence’s approval rating had fallen below 50 percent, in part because of controversy surrounding the state’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which held that "a governmental entity may not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion."
Pence first alienated liberals and moderates by signing the bill into law. He then outraged the measure’s evangelical supporters by endorsing changes to the law aimed at preventing discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
The 2016 gubernatorial campaign had started to become more negative, with yard signs calling for Pence to be fired. The Republican Governors Association ran an independently produced ad that attacked his opponent’s record. But Pence himself had not gone negative.
At a Saturday morning event to formally introduce his running mate, Trump called Pence “a man of honour,” contrasting him with Hillary Clinton, whom he described as “the embodiment of corruption.”
It remains to be seen how aggressive Pence will be in campaigning for Trump in coming months - and whether he will stick to the principles outlined in his 1991 article on negative campaigning.
“It is wrong, quite simply,” he wrote at the time, “to squander a candidate’s priceless moment in history ... on partisan bickering.”
In an interview with CBS correspondent Lesley Stahl that will air on "60 Minutes" on Sunday evening, Trump suggested he may not expect his running mate to go on the attack.
While discussing his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, Trump told Stahl, "I call her 'Crooked Hillary' ... but I don't think he should do it, because it's different for him."
NICE, France (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility on Saturday for the truck attack that killed at least 84 people celebrating Bastille Day in the French city of Nice and police arrested three more people there in connection with the seafront carnage.
"The person who carried out the operation in Nice, France, to run down people was one of the soldiers of Islamic State," the Amaq news agency affiliated with the militant Islamist group said on its Telegram account.
"He carried out the operation in response to calls to target nationals of states that are part of the coalition fighting Islamic State."
French authorities have yet to produce any evidence that the 31 year-old Tunisian killer, shot dead by police in the attack, had turned to radical Islam. Nevertheless, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said that Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel may have undergone a rapid change.
"It seems that he was radicalised very quickly -- in any case these are the elements that have come up from the testimony of the people around him," Cazeneuve told reporters.
Speaking from his home town in Tunisia, Bouhlel's sister told Reuters he had been having psychological problems when he left for France in 2005.
Other relatives and friends interviewed in Nice doubted he had militant Islamist leanings.
Saturday's arrests concerned his "close entourage", police sources said. Two other people, including the attacker's wife, had already been detained.
Bouhlel had been in France for 10 years and lived locally.
He drove at the crowd in the Riviera city on Thursday night, zig-zagging along the seafront Promenade des Anglais for two kilometers as a fireworks display marking the French national day ended, until police eventually shot him dead.
The Health Ministry said 121 people remained in hospital, including 30 children. Twenty-six individuals were still in intensive care.
The attack plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Assaults in January 2015 on satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket were also claimed by Islamic State, which controls swathes of Iraq and Syria but is now under military pressure from forces opposed to it.
A state of emergency in place since the Paris killings last November is to be extended for another three months. On Saturday Cazeneuve called on "patriotic citizens" to become reservists to help relieve exhausted security forces.
Bouhlel was known to police for petty crimes but was not on a watch list of suspected militants. He had one criminal conviction for road rage, having been sentenced to probation three months ago for throwing a wooden pallet at another driver.
Edwin Bakker, Professor at the Centre for Terrorism and Counterterrorism at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, said Islamic State's claim did not necessarily point to any formal link.
"Islamic State called for such (individual) attacks to be carried out back in 2014. They are also using the public perception that an attack like this seems to fit Islamic State.
"Investigators still have not discovered a direct link between Islamic State and the attacker, so it is a cheap claim," he said.
In Nice, where the holiday season would normally be in full swing, organizers of the annual Jazz festival joined the singer Rihanna in cancelling their event. A five-day annual festival that has run since 1948 had been due to start on Saturday.
Nice's beaches, which are usually packed in mid-July,  were noticeably less busy.
Tearful well-wishers were still laying flowers, candles, teddy bears and drawings at a makeshift memorial on the Promenade des Anglais.
"Nothing will ever be like before ... Nissa ma belle," read one, a reference to the hymn 'Nissa la Bella', or Nice the Beautiful, sung in the local Nicois dialect.
"Enough of the carnage. Stop the massacre," read another.
Tora Hakausson, from Norway, owns a flat in Nice, and was dining in a beach restaurant when the attack took place.
"We don't want to go home. Life has to remain normal. I don't want this to change how we feel about France," she said as she wiped away a tear from under her sunglasses.
"Anger is the main emotion today," said Maiche Arlette, a  resident of the city. "For two and a half years now we have suffered from these attacks ...
"Our society has gone mad."
ISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities rounded up nearly 3,000 suspected military plotters on Saturday and ordered thousands of judges detained after thwarting a coup by rebels using tanks and attack helicopters to try to topple President Tayyip Erdogan.
For several hours overnight on Friday violence shook Turkey's two main cities, as the armed faction which tried to seize power blocked a bridge in Istanbul and strafed the headquarters of Turkish intelligence and parliament in Ankara.
At least 265 people were killed. An official said 161 of them were mostly civilians and police officers, while the remaining 104 were coup supporters.
But the coup attempt crumbled as Erdogan rushed back to Istanbul from a Mediterranean holiday and urged people to take to the streets to support his government against plotters he accused of trying to kill him.
"They will pay a heavy price for this," said Erdogan, launching a purge of the armed forces, which last used force to stage a successful coup more than 30 years ago. "This uprising is a gift from God to us because this will be a reason to cleanse our army."
Among those detained were top military commanders, including the head of the Second Army which protects the country's borders with Syria, Iraq and Iran, state-run Anadolu news agency said.
Hundreds of soldiers were held in Ankara for alleged involvement in the coup, leaving police stations overflowing.
Some had to be taken under armed police escort in buses to a sports stadium. Reuters footage showed some of the detainees, handcuffed and stripped from the waist up, sitting on the floor of one of the buses.
The government declared the situation under control, saying 2,839 people had been rounded up, from foot soldiers to senior officers, including those who formed "the backbone" of the rebellion.
Authorities also began a major crackdown in the judiciary over suspected links to U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, removing from their posts and ordering the detention of nearly 3,000 prosecutors and judges, including from top courts.
Erdogan has blamed the coup on supporters of Gulen, who he has frequently accused of trying to foment uprising in the military, media and judiciary.
Ten members of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors and two members of the Constitutional Court have already been detained, officials said.
A successful overthrow of Erdogan, who has ruled the country of about 80 million people since 2003, would have marked another seismic shift in the Middle East, five years after the Arab uprisings erupted and plunged Turkey's southern neighbour Syria into civil war.
However, a failed coup attempt could still destabilise the NATO member and major U.S. ally that lies between the European Union and the chaos of Syria, with Islamic State bombers targeting Turkish cities and the government also at war with Kurdish separatists.
U.S. President Barack Obama expressed support for Turkey's government and urged parties on all sides of the crisis to avoid destabilising the country and follow the rule of law. But his secretary of state, John Kerry, warned Turkish Foreign Minister  Mevlut Cavusoglu that public suggestions of a U.S. role in the plot were "utterly false" and harmful to relations.
Erdogan, who had been holidaying on the southwest coast when the coup was launched, flew into Istanbul before dawn on Saturday and told thousands of flag-waving supporters at the airport that the government remained at the helm.
A polarising figure whose Islamist-rooted ideology lies at odds with supporters of modern Turkey's secular principles, Erdogan said the plotters had tried to attack him in the resort town of Marmaris.
"They bombed places I had departed from right after I was gone," he said. "They probably thought we were still there."
Erdogan's AK Party has long had strained relations with the military, which has a history of mounting coups to defend secularism although it has not seized power directly since 1980.
His conservative religious vision for Turkey's future has also alienated many ordinary citizens who accuse him of authoritarianism. Police used heavy force in 2013 to suppress mass protests demanding more freedom.
He commands the admiration and loyalty of millions of Turks, however, particularly for raising living standards and restoring order to an economy once beset by regular crises, which grew 4.8 percent year-on-year in the first quarter.
The violence is likely to hit a tourism industry already suffering from the bombings, and business confidence is also vulnerable.
In a night that sometimes verged on the bizarre, Erdogan frequently took to social media, even though he is an avowed enemy of the technology when his opponents use it and frequently targets Twitter and Facebook.
He addressed the nation via a video calling service, appearing on the smartphone of a CNN Turk reporter who held it up to a studio camera.
He also urged Washington to deport Gulen, who lives in self-imposed exile in the United States. The cleric, who once supported Erdogan but became a leading adversary, condemned the attempted coup and said he played no role in it.
"As someone who suffered under multiple military coups during the past five decades, it is especially insulting to be accused of having any link to such an attempt. I categorically deny such accusations," Gulen said in a statement.
Kerry said the United States was willing to help Turkey as it tries to identify those involved in the coup attempt, but made clear it would only act if there was evidence against Gulen.
Gunfire and explosions had rocked both Istanbul and Ankara through the night after soldiers took up positions in both cities and ordered state television to read out a statement declaring they had taken power. However, by dawn the noise of fighting had died down considerably.
About 50 soldiers involved in the coup surrendered on one of the bridges across the Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul after dawn on Saturday, abandoning their tanks with their hands raised in the air. Reuters witnesses saw government supporters attack the pro-coup soldiers who had surrendered.
By Saturday afternoon, CNN Turk reported that security forces had completed an operation against coup plotters at the headquarters of the military general staff. Security sources also said police detained about 100 military officers at an air base in the southeast.
Neighbouring Greece arrested eight men aboard a Turkish military helicopter which landed in the northern city of Alexandroupolis on Saturday, the Greek police ministry said, adding that they had requested political asylum.
At one stage military commanders were held hostage by the plotters and by Saturday evening -- 24 hours after the coup was launched -- some operations against rebels were continuing.
Cavusoglu, the foreign minister, said soldiers at the Incirlik air base, used by the United States to launch air strikes on Islamic State targets in Syria, were involved in the attempt. He said Turkey would resume operations with the U.S.-led coalition once the anti-coup operations were completed.
The coup began with warplanes and helicopters roaring over Ankara and troops moving in to seal off the bridges over the Bosphorus, which separates Europe and Asia in Istanbul.
Turkish maritime authorities reopened the Bosphorus to transiting tankers after shutting the major trade route from the Black Sea to the Aegean for several hours for security and safety reasons.
In the early hours of Saturday, lawmakers hid in shelters inside the parliament building, which was fired on by tanks. An opposition deputy told Reuters that parliament was hit three times and people had been wounded.
When parliament convened later in the day, the four main political parties - running the gamut from Erdogan's right-wing Islamist-rooted AK Party to the left-of-centre, pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) - came together in a rare show of unity to condemn the attempted coup.
A Turkish military commander also said fighter jets had shot down a helicopter used by the coup plotters over Ankara.
Momentum turned against the coup plotters as the night wore on. Crowds defied orders to stay indoors, gathering at major squares in Istanbul and Ankara, waving flags and chanting.
"We have a prime minister, we have a chief of command, we're not going to leave this country to degenerates," shouted one man, as groups of government supporters climbed onto a tank near Ataturk airport.
Kerry said he had phoned the Turkish foreign minister and underlined "absolute support for Turkey's democratically elected, civilian government and democratic institutions".
Flag carrier Turkish Airlines resumed flights on Saturday, though some foreign carriers cancelled weekend flights.
At the height of the action, rebel soldiers took control of TRT state television, which announced a countrywide curfew and martial law. An announcer read a statement on the orders of the pro-coup faction that accused the government of eroding the democratic and secular rule of law. Turkey would be run by a "peace council" that would ensure the safety of the population, the statement said.
Turkey is one of the main backers of opponents of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria's civil war and hosts 2.7 million Syrian refugees. It was a departure point last year for the biggest influx of migrants to Europe since World War Two.
Turkey has suffered numerous bombings and shootings this year, including an attack two weeks ago by Islamists at Ataturk airport that killed more than 40 people, as well as those staged by Kurdish militants.
After serving as prime minister from 2003, Erdogan was elected president in 2014 with plans to alter the constitution to give the previously ceremonial presidency far greater executive powers.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States urged Turkey on Saturday to exercise restraint  after a failed military coup sparked a government crackdown, and warned its NATO ally that public suggestions of a U.S. role in the plot were "utterly false" and harmful to relations.
President Barack Obama urged parties on all sides of the crisis to avoid destabilising Turkey and follow the rule of law after the coup attempt against President Tayyip Erdogan.
The coup attempt complicated U.S.-led efforts to combat Islamic State. Turkey closed its airspace to military aircraft and power was cut off to Incirlik air base, which U.S. forces use to launch air attacks against the militant group.
U.S. officials were working with Turkish officials to resume air operations quickly, the Pentagon said.
Secretary of State John Kerry told Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu that authorities should respect the rule of law during their probe of the coup.
He also said "public insinuations or claims about any role by the United States in the failed coup attempt are utterly false and harmful to our bilateral relations," the State Department said.
Turkey has long been a key U.S. ally but relations have been strained in recent years and Erdogan's government has accused U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen of being behind the coup attempt.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said any country that stands by Gulen will be considered at war with Turkey, and Erdogan urged Washington to deport the cleric.
Kerry said the United States was willing to help Turkey as it tries to identify those involved in the coup attempt, but made clear it would only act if there was evidence against Gulen.
"We fully anticipate that there will be questions raised about Mr Gulen, and obviously we invite the government of Turkey ... to present us with any legitimate evidence that withstands scrutiny and the United States will accept that and look at it and make judgements appropriately," he said.
Gulen has condemned the coup attempt and denied any involvement in it.
Obama conferred with his national security and foreign policy advisers on Saturday morning and reiterated his support for the "democratically-elected, civilian" government of Turkey.
"While we have no indications as of yet that Americans were killed or injured in the violence, the president and his team lamented the loss of life and registered the vital need for all parties in Turkey to act within the rule of law and to avoid actions that would lead to further violence or instability," the White House said.
Obama noted the United States needed continued cooperation from Turkey in the fight against terrorism.
Forces loyal to Erdogan largely crushed the last remnants of the coup on Saturday as he launched a purge of the armed forces to tighten his grip on power.
Turkey scrambled jets throughout Friday night to resist the coup launched by a faction within Turkey's military that saw rebels piloting military aircraft.
The Incirlik air base near Adana in the southeast of the country was running on internal power sources after a loss of commercial power to the base, the Pentagon said.
"U.S. officials are working with the Turks to resume air operations there as soon as possible," said Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook. "In the meantime, U.S. Central Command is adjusting flight operations in the counter-ISIL campaign to minimize any effects on the campaign."
Erdogan has cooperated with Washington in the fight against Islamic State, but relations have been rocky with U.S. criticism of Erdogan's increasing authoritarianism, Turkey's support for Islamist opposition groups fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, and the slow pace in sealing Turkey's border with Syria to foreign fighters.
The closing of the airspace over Incirlik effectively grounded U.S. aircraft and drones that have been instrumental in the campaign to crush Islamic State in Syria, including supporting drives by Syrian Kurds and moderate Arabs, who are being advised by U.S. special forces, to seize the militant-held city of Manbij and Raqqa, the "capital" of the caliphate declared by Islamic State.
"Clearly the variable here is how long the closure will last," said Jeffrey White, a former senior Defense Intelligence Agency analyst now with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "If we're unable to fly from Incirlik, it will have a significant impact on the air campaign."
A Turkish presidency official in Istanbul said the move was temporary and aimed at preventing rogue aircraft from targeting civilians and government buildings.
"This is a short-term measure which won't have significant effect on coalition operations," the official said. "We have discussed this measure with our colleagues in Washington as well and they understand our concerns."
A prolonged closure of Incirlik's airspace could force the United States to divert aircraft based in the Persian Gulf to the Manbij and Raqqa offensives, constraining the air power available to support Iraqi and U.S. forces involved in operations against Islamic State.
It could also complicate the Pentagon’s ability to resupply and aid U.S. special forces inside Syria.
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Half of Brazilians would like to see interim President Michel Temer stay in the job until the next election in 2018, compared with 32 percent who desire the return of suspended President Dilma Rousseff, according to a Datafolha poll published Saturday on the Folha de S.Paulo website.
The poll, conducted on July 14 and 15, showed just 3 percent of people are in favor of holding early elections.
Rousseff is currently suspended as her impeachment case is tried in the Senate. A verdict is expected toward the end of August on whether she broke budget laws.
Despite half of Brazilians wanting Temer to continue in the country's top job instead of having Rousseff return, the interim president's approval rating is only 31 percent.
The wide-ranging poll also showed rising confidence in the economy. The Datafolha Index of Confidence registered 98 points, the highest since the end of 2014 and 11 points higher than the last poll in February.
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain opened "very fruitful" trade talks with Canada on Friday, International Trade Secretary Liam Fox told the Sunday Times newspaper as he prepares to renegotiate Britain's commercial ties following its vote last month to leave the European Union.
In limited extracts of his interview, Fox said he would soon travel to the United States to ensure that Britain was not at the back of the queue in trade talks as President Barack Obama  had suggested before the June 23 vote.
He said was "scoping" about a dozen free trade deals outside the EU to be ready for when Britain leaves, some with countries that had indicated they wanted a quick deal and others with some of the world's major economies.
"We can make Britain a beacon for open trade," he told the paper. "We have already had a number of countries saying 'we'd love to do a trade deal with the world's fifth-biggest economy without having to deal with the other 27 members of the EU.'"
Earlier, Prime Minister Theresa May's office said Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull had told her he would like to strike a free trade deal with Britain as soon as possible.
The European Commission negotiates trade deals on behalf of its member states, meaning Britain has not had to forge its own deals since it joined the bloc in 1973.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand's infamous sex industry is under fire, with the tourism minister pushing to rid the country of its ubiquitous brothels and a spate of police raids in recent weeks on some of the largest establishments providing sex services in Bangkok.
Those who work in the industry say curbs on commercial sex services would hurt a flagging economy that has struggled to recover after political turmoil took the country to the brink of recession in 2014.
Thailand is predominantly Buddhist and deeply conservative, but is home to an extensive sex industry, largely catering to Thai men. Hordes of tourists also flock to the bright lights of go-go bars and massage parlours in Bangkok and main tourist towns.
Thailand's beaches and temples have been the poster child for Asian tourism for decades and the country expects a record number of arrivals in 2016.
Tourism Minister Kobkarn Wattanavrangkul played down the role of the sex industry in drawing visitors.
"Tourists don't come to Thailand for such a thing. They come here for our beautiful culture," Kobkarn told Reuters.
"We want Thailand to be about quality tourism. We want the sex industry gone," she said.
Prostitution is illegal in Thailand but the law is almost invariably ignored. Experts say it will be hard to rid Thailand of an industry that is so entrenched and that provides pay-offs to untold numbers of officials and policemen.
Those trying to promote the welfare of sex workers say Kobkarn's goal is unrealistic.
Her push comes amid an attempt by the country's tourism authorities to transform Thailand into a luxury destination to attract moneyed tourists.
The military government is in denial about the proliferation of prostitution and its contribution to the economy and tourism, said Panomporn Utaisri, country director of NightLight, a Christian non-profit group that helps women in the sex trade to find alternative work.
"There's no denying this industry generates a lot of income," said Panomporn.
There are no government estimates of the value of Thailand's sex industry, or how much of the income from tourism comes from sex tourists.
There are about 123,530 sex workers in Thailand, according to a 2014 UNAIDS report, compared with 37,000 sex workers in neighboring Cambodia.
Last month, police raided dozens of brothels in major cities in what they said was a routine operation.
Police said they were looking to prosecute venues employing underage and illegal migrant workers, but only one of the venues raided was shut down.
There was no link between the tourism minister's aim to rid Thailand of its sex tourism industry and the raids, a police spokesman said.
The tourism sector accounts for about 10 percent of gross domestic product and sex worker groups said the minister's vision of a prostitution-free Thailand would dent that.
"The police presence already drives off a number of clients who come to relax or drink at bars," said Surang Janyam, director of Service Workers in Group (SWING), which provides sex workers with free medical care and vocational training.
"Wiping out this industry is guaranteed to make Thailand lose visitors and income."
Many sex workers come from the impoverished northeast and  see selling their bodies as a way out of poverty.
One former sex worker from the northeastern province of Maha Sarakham, who declined to be identified, told Reuters she entered Bangkok's sex trade at the age of 19 and earned up to 5,000 baht ($143.14) a night, nearly 20 times the minimum wage of 300 baht ($8.59) per day.
"No one wants to work in this business, but it's fast and easy money," she said.
NightLight and SWING said they would welcome the sex industry's closure if the government had a plan to ensure that sex workers could support themselves without falling back into the business.
"If they want to close the sex industry, they must first have jobs ready to support sex workers," said Surang.
PARIS (Reuters) - The man behind the truck attack that killed at least 84 people celebrating Bastille Day in the French city of Nice had recently been radicalised, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said in remarks published on Sunday.
Thursday night's attack in the Riviera city of Nice plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Those attacks, and one in Brussels four months ago, shocked Western Europe, already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration, open borders and pockets of Islamist radicalism.
Authorities have yet to produce evidence that the 31 year-old Tunisian Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, shot dead by police, had any links to Islamic State, which claimed the attack, but Valls said there was no doubt on the assailant's motives.
"The investigation will establish the facts, but we know now that the killer was radicalised very quickly, " Valls said in an interview with Sunday newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche.
"The claim on Saturday morning by Islamic State and the fast radicalisation of the killer confirms the Islamist nature of this attack."
Officials said on Saturday that people questioned by police had indicated that he had undergone a rapid transformation from someone with no apparent interest in religion.
The Amaq news agency affiliated with the militant Islamist group said that Bouhlel "was one of the soldiers of Islamic State."
Valls, who said security services had prevented 16 attacks over three years, indicated that at play on Thursday was the group's modus operandi of cajoling unstable individuals into carrying out attacks with whatever means possible.
"Daesh gives unstable individuals an ideological kit that allows them to make sense of their acts ... this is probably what happened in Nice's case," Valls said, referring to the Arabic acronym for Islamic State.
The group, which is under military pressure from forces opposed to it, considers France its main target given its military operations in the Middle East, and also because it is easier to strike than the United States, which is leading a coalition against it.
Despite mounting criticism from the conservative opposition and far-right over how President Francois Hollande's Socialist government is handling security, Valls warned that there was no risk zero and new attacks would occur.
"I've always said the truth regarding terrorism: there is an ongoing war, there will be more attacks. It's difficult to say, but other lives will be lost."
With presidential and parliamentary elections less than a year away, French opposition politicians are ramping up pressure  and seizing on what they described as security failings that made it possible for the truck to career 2 km (1.5 miles) through large crowds before it was finally halted.
After Thursday's attack, a state of emergency imposed across France after the November attacks in Paris was extended by three months and military and police reservists were to be called up.
Interior Minister Bernard Cazenueve on Saturday called on "patriotic citizens" to become reservists to help relieve exhausted security forces.
But the measures appear to have done little to temper concerns. Highlighting the "serious deficiencies" in protecting French citizens, National Front leader Marine Le Pen demanded that Cazeneuve resign.
"Anywhere else in the world a minister with such a terrible record - 250 deaths in 18 months - would have resigned a long time ago," she told reporters.
Christian Estrosi, a security hardliner and ex-minister under former president Nicolas Sarkozy who is now president of the wider Riviera region, accused the government of failing completely in Nice.
"When the interior minister says there were enough police, it constitutes a blatant lie," he told i-Tele television. "He said there were 64 national policemen on duty. It's false and the investigation will show it."
Valls has said there were no failures in Nice.
LUXEMBOURG (Reuters) - Secretary of State John Kerry told Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavosoglu on Saturday that public claims suggesting the United States was involved in the failed coup in Turkey were harmful to relations between the two NATO allies.
Kerry pressed Turkey to use restraint and respect the rule of law during its investigation into the plot, State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement.
"He made clear that the United States would be willing to provide assistance to Turkish authorities conducting this investigation, but that public insinuations or claims about any role by the United States in the failed coup attempt are utterly false and harmful to our bilateral relations," Kirby said.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Audio from the flight recorder of crashed EgyptAir flight MS804 mentions a fire on board the plane in its final moments, the investigation committee said on Saturday, confirming what sources on the committee had previously told Reuters.
The Airbus A320 plunged into the eastern Mediterranean en route from Paris to Cairo on May 19. All 66 people on board were killed. The cause of the crash remains unknown.
Earlier analysis of the plane's flight data recorder showed there had been smoke in the lavatory and avionics bay, while recovered wreckage from the jet's front section showed signs of high temperature damage and soot.
Initial audio extracted from the flight deck voice recorder had indicated an attempt to put out a fire on the jet before it crashed, committee sources had told Reuters.
The committee said on Saturday it was still "too early to determine the reason or the place where that fire occurred."
The committee also said the John Lethbridge vessel, belonging to Mauritius-based Deep Ocean Search, had completed its search for human remains, which will now be transferred to Cairo for DNA analysis.
ANKARA/BRUSSELS (Reuters) - It was a strangely 20th century coup, defeated by 21st century technology and people power.
When a self-styled military "Peace Council" tried to topple Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and his increasingly authoritarian government on Friday night, the rebel generals and colonels seemed to be fighting the last war.
"This coup was obviously planned quite well but using a playbook from the 1970s," said Gareth Jenkins, a researcher and writer on military affairs based in Istanbul.
It was more like Chile in 1973, or Ankara in 1980 than a modern Western state in 2016.    The rebels struck on a weekend when the president was out of town at a holiday resort. They seized the main airport, sealed off a bridge over the Bosphorus in Istanbul, sent tanks to parliament and Ankara and to control the main road junctions, and broadcast a statement on TRT state television declaring a curfew and warning people to stay at home.    But they failed to capture any of the ruling AK Party leaders or to shut down private television, mobile phone signals or social media networks, enabling Erdogan and his aides swiftly to call supporters into the streets to resist the coup.
Their biggest handicap, said Turkish analyst Sinan Ulgen of the Carnegie Europe think tank, was that they acted outside the military chain of command and hence lacked sufficient resources to take control of key levers of power.
"Their blueprint was also ineffective since they failed from the outset to capture any military installations in Turkey or any of the (political) leadership," said Ulgen, a former Turkish diplomat.
Erdogan, frequently accused of interfering with social media and muzzling the press and broadcasters, used modern communications technology nimbly to get his message out to the population of nearly 80 million, outflanking the plotters.
He used the FaceTime video application on a reporter's smartphone to broadcast a message live on CNN Turk, a private TV station which the plotters tried but failed to silence.    "Let's gather as a nation in the squares," he said. "I believe we will remove this occupation that has taken place within a short time. I am calling on our people now to come to the arenas and we will give them the necessary answer."
The president said rebels tried to bomb his hotel in the southwestern resort of Marmaris. There was also a gunfight there between soldiers and pro-government police after he had left.
Within 20 minutes of the coup broadcast, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim went on Twitter to denounce the putsch and assure Turks that the armed forces' high command was not backing the revolt.
They were following in a long line of revolutionaries who used new communications techniques to outwit their enemies -- from Protestant priest Martin Luther using the printing press in 1517 to spread his theses denouncing the Roman Catholic church, to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini recording audio cassettes in France that were copied and spread around Iran to defeat the Shah in 1979.
Social media have made it harder for governments to suppress news and voices of protest. Iran's "Green Revolution" protests against an allegedly rigged presidential election in 2013 were amplified by video shot on mobile phones and disseminated on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.
In Turkey on Friday, aides to Erdogan were able to get messages out to Turkish and international media that the president, in power since 2003, was safe and not under arrest even as soldiers were taking over the TRT television station.
His predecessor, Abdullah Gul, also used FaceTime to shout angry defiance at the coup plotters on CNN Turk, and former Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu spoke by mobile phone with Al Jazeera television to call the takeover a failure.
The contrast was striking with the ultimately unsuccessful 1991 coup by hardliners against Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who was reduced to listening to BBC World Service radio at his Crimean holiday home, powerless to intervene as events unfolded in Moscow.
The Soviet plotters managed to take control for three days -- earning embarrassing recognition from then French President Francois Mitterrand -- before Russian leader Boris Yeltsin rallied public opposition to the coup, standing atop a tank in Moscow to harangue the crowd.
The Turkish events also had echoes of a 1981 coup attempt against Spain’s young democracy by rebel officers who burst into parliament but failed to win broader military support after King Juan Carlos broadcast to the nation in military uniform urging people to uphold the constitution.    As in the failed Soviet coup, the Turkish coup leaders were dependent on raw conscripts who had either not been told the truth about their mission, or had not expected to face popular resistance and quickly melted away or surrendered.
All three opposition party leaders quickly condemned the coup and social media amplified calls to demonstrate against it.
The rebels bungled an attempt to silence CNN Turk, jointly owned by Turner Entertainment Systems of the United States and Dogan Yayin Holding. A helicopter carrying conscripts with a single officer landed at the station but was told it was impossible to take the signal off the air.
They forced the temporary evacuation of the studio. When CNN Türk came back on air, anchorwoman Nevsin Mengu and general manager Erdogan Aktas described the mood of the young soldiers.
"These young soldiers had only fear in their eyes and no sign of devotion or determination," Mengu said. "They asked us to go offline but we said it was not doable. They didn't know how to do it so our empty studio was live on TV for the whole time before we regained control."
During that break, a man in a pink T-shirt wandered into the studio chanting "Allahu Akbar" (God is great) in support of Erdogan.    Religious leaders loyal to the president also for the first time used the network of mosques with loudspeakers to urge Turks to go out into the streets in the name of "jihad" (holy war).
(This version of the story has the year of the Spanish coup attempt corrected from 1978 to 1981 in paragraph 20.)
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United Nations Security Council failed on Saturday to condemn the violence and unrest in Turkey after Egypt objected to a statement that called on all parties to "respect the democratically elected government of Turkey," diplomats said.
The U.S.-drafted statement also expressed grave concern over the situation in Turkey, urged the parties to show restraint, avoid any violence or bloodshed, and called for an urgent end to the crisis and return to rule of law.
Statements by the 15-member Security council have to be agreed by consensus.
Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Egypt argued that the U.N. Security Council was not in a position to determine whether a government had been democratically elected.
Egypt's mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Turkish forces loyal to President Tayyip Erdogan largely crushed an attempted military coup on Saturday after crowds answered his call to take to the streets in support of the government and dozens of rebels abandoned their tanks.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is a former general who overthrew elected President Mohamed Mursi, of the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, in 2013 after mass protests against Mursi. Turkey provided support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.
ROME (Reuters) - Rescuers saved 366 migrants from rickety boats trying to cross the Mediterranean to Italy but at least 20 people were reported to have drowned, Italian police said on Saturday.
The survivors, who were rescued in four separate operations, were crammed onto three rubber dinghies and a wooden fishing boat. They were all taken to the Sicilian port of Augusta, where they were questioned on Friday evening by the Italian police unit Interforce, which combats illegal immigration.
The Norwegian ship Siem Pilot went to the aid of one dinghy that sank in the Sicilian Channel, but many migrants were already in the sea when it arrived, Antonio Panzanaro, an Interforce official, told Reuters. One corpse was recovered but survivors said that at least 20 people had drowned before the ship arrived, he said.
There were 82 women and 25 children among the 366 people rescued, he said. The survivors were mainly from Nigeria, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Bangladesh.
Seven people were arrested from the four boats, including their drivers, on suspicion of people-trafficking, he said.
Italy has long been on the front line of seaborne migration from Africa to Europe, and is now the main point of entry after the European Union struck a deal with Turkey to stem flows to Greece amid Europe's worst migration crisis since World War Two.
Slightly fewer migrants arrived on Italian shores in the first six months of 2016 compared with the same period last year, but the number of deaths on the route has risen, according to the International Organisation for Migration (IOM).
More than 67,000 seaborne migrants arrived in Italy between Jan. 1 and July 3, according to the IOM.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey's four main political parties condemned the attempted military coup in a joint statement on Saturday, marking a rare departure from usually fractious politics.
The four parties, which run the gamut from the right-wing, Islamist-rooted AK Party founded by President Tayyip Erdogan to the left-of-centre, pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), said their stance was invaluable for democracy in Turkey.
The statement was read aloud in the assembly the parliamentary speaker.
(Reuters) - Below is a timeline of breaking events in Turkey. All times in GMT, based on the times Reuters reported the events. Reuters does not vouch for events reported by other media.
1201 - U.S.-based Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen denies accusations he played a role in the attempted coup and condemns "in the strongest terms" the attempt to topple the government.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry earlier says he has not received any request to extradite Gulen.
1151 - Police detain about 100 military officers at air base in Diyarbakir, southeastern Turkey, security sources say.
1145 - Turkish authorities remove 2,745 judges from duty, broadcaster NTV reports, citing a decision by the High Council of Judges and Prosectors (HSYK). Five members of HSYK, Turkey's high judiciary board, are also removed, state-run Anadolu Agency reports.
1054 - Turkish maritime authorities re-open Istanbul's Bosphorus Strait to transiting tankers, agent GAC says.
1027 - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan sends a mass text message imploring people to take to the streets against a "narrow cadre".
1023 - Greek military source says anti-government group at Turkey's Golcuk naval base has taken over frigate, head of Turkish fleet taken hostage.
0954 - Turkish military helicopter lands in northern Greece, eight men on board request political asylum, men arrested, say Greek officials. Turkish foreign ministry asks Greece to return men.
0920 - Turkish PM Binali Yildirim says 161 people killed, 1,440 wounded, 2,839 army members detained including ordinary soldiers and high-ranking officers. Says those who formed backbone of coup detained, parliament meeting scheduled for 1200 GMT, calls on citizens to fill town and city squares with flags.
0902 - Turkey's EU Minister, Omer Celik, says coup situation "90 percent under control", but some commanders are still being held hostage.
0800 - Acting Chief of Staff of the armed forces, Umit Dundar, says coup attempt was mainly by troops from air force, gendarmerie, some "armoured elements".
0554 - Turkey's intelligence agency headquarters was attacked by military helicopters and heavy machinegun fire, wounding at least three people overnight, an intelligence source tells Reuters. The head of the agency, Hakan Fidan, was at a secure location and in constant contact with President Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, the source adds.
0529 - The head of Turkey's armed forces, Hulusi Akar, has been rescued after being held hostage, a senior Turkish official says.
0510 - Turkey's military headquarters are now held by pro-government forces but small groups of rebel soldiers are still resisting and control some military helicopters, a senior Turkish official says. Says 29 colonels and five generals had been removed from their posts.
0433 - Supporters of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan attack a group of soldiers who had surrendered on an Istanbul bridge before police intervene to rescue them.
0418 - An email from the Turkish military General Staff's press office address says the faction of officers behind the coup attempt is still fighting. Calling itself the Peace at Home Movement, the faction tells people to stay indoors for their own safety.
0356 - Turkey appoints the head of its First Army, Umit Dundar, as acting chief of military staff, while the whereabouts of the head of the armed forces is unknown, a senior Turkish official tells Reuters.
0342 - Soldiers involved in the attempted coup surrender on one of the bridges across the Bosphorus in Istanbul, abandoning their tanks with their hands raised in the air, live footage on CNN Turk shows.
0339 - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan addresses thousands waving flags at Istanbul's main airport, urges supporters to stay on streets until the situation normalises.
0250 - Maritime authorities shut Istanbul's Bosphorus Strait to transiting tankers "for security and safety" reasons, shipping agent GAC says.
0119 - The attempted coup was an act of treason and is a reason to "clean up" the armed forces, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan says.
0100 - Erdogan appears among supporters at Istanbul airport, says uprising has been attempted against solidarity and unity of country; says no power is above national will.
0045 - Around 30 soldiers, part of faction attempting to carry out coup, surrender weapons after being surrounded by armed police in Istanbul's central Taksim square.
0045 - Turkish private broadcaster CNN Turk halts live news broadcast, presenter says soldiers entered studio control room.
0027 - Two more explosions hit parliament; member of parliament reached by telephone says lawmakers are hiding in shelters at the parliament.
0020 - Turkish official says Erdogan's plane lands in Istanbul.
2352 - Turkish PM says situation under control, declares no-fly zone over Ankara.
2339 - Bomb hits parliament in Ankara, state-run Anadolu Agency says. Reuters witness hears blast in Istanbul.
2320 - Kerry says emphasised "absolute support for Turkey's democratically elected, civilian government and democratic institutions" in phone call with Turkish foreign minister.
2313 - Group close to U.S.-based cleric Gulen says accusations it was involved in coup attempt are "highly irresponsible". Condemns military intervention in Turkish politics. Says concerned about safety of citizens.
2305 - U.S. President Barack Obama says he and Secretary of State Kerry agree that all parties in Turkey should support elected government. Urges restraint, avoidance of bloodshed - White House statement.
2304 - State-run Anadolu Agency says 17 police killed at Ankara special forces HQ.
2259 - Turkish fighter jet shoots down military helicopter used by coup-plotters over Ankara, broadcaster NTV says.
2251 - Commander of special forces says a group has engaged in treason, they will not succeed. Says military does not condone coup.
2237 - Commander of Turkey's First Army, part of land forces responsible for Istanbul and other western areas, said those attempting a coup were a small faction and "nothing to worry about".
2226 - Two loud explosions heard in centre of Turkish capital
2208 - Tanks surround Turkish parliament building, open fire. Gunfire heard at Istanbul airport.
2203 - Turkish justice minister says members of a movement loyal to U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen in the army are behind the attempted coup.
2151 - A military helicopter opens fire over the Turkish capital Ankara, witnesses report an explosion in the capital.
2135 - Turkish state broadcaster TRT goes off air, but later starts broadcasting from London.
2126 - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan urges people to take to the streets to protest against what he describes as a coup attempt by a minority faction within the military. Speaking to a CNN Turk reporter via a cellphone video link he says it will meet a "necessary response". He says he is returning to the capital Ankara.
2122 - Turkish PM says on Twitter everything will be done to put down coup attempt, even if it means fatalities. Says sieges are under way at some important buildings, urges people to remain calm.
2118 - Presidential source says president and government are still in power.
2105 - Turkish state broadcaster says reading statement on the orders of the military - that new constitution will be prepared, accuses government of eroding democratic and secular rule of law, that the country is being run by a "peace council", that martial law and curfew imposed across the country.
2102 - Head of Istanbul branch of Turkey's ruling AK Party says soldiers enter party building, told to go.
2058 - Soldiers are inside buildings of Turkish state broadcaster TRT in Ankara, TRT correspondent tells Reuters.
2057 - Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other social media restricted in Turkey, say internet monitoring groups.
2049 - Turkish presidential source says statement made on behalf of armed forces was not authorised by military command.
2047 - Turkish chief of military staff among hostages taken at military headquarters in Ankara, says state-run Anadolu agency.
2038 - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan is safe, reports CNN Turk.
2025 - Statement purportedly from Turkish military says it has taken power to protect democratic order. The message, sent by email and reported on Turkish TV channels, says all of Turkey's existing foreign relations will be maintained.
2002 - Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim says attempted coup under way, calls for calm. He says a group within Turkey's military has attempted to overthrow the government and security forces have been called in to "do what is necessary".
1950 - Gunshots are heard in Ankara, military jets and helicopters seen flying overhead. Helicopters seen overhead in Istanbul.
1929 - Istanbul's Bosphorus Bridge and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge are both closed. Dogan News Agency footage shows cars and buses being diverted.
DUBAI/ANKARA (Reuters) - Iran said on Saturday it fully supported the government of neighbouring Turkey against an attempted military coup launched on Friday night, despite Tehran and Ankara's differences over Syria and other issues.
The senior aide to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said that Tehran backed Turkey's elected government against the coup but it expected Ankara to do the same when it came to Syria.
Iran, a Shi'ite Muslim nation, is a main ally of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria's civil war while Sunni-majority Turkey has been one of his fiercest critics and has supported his opponents.
"We disagree with Turkey on some issues, like Syria. We are hopeful that the Turkish government respects the Syrian people's opinion and votes and lets the Syrian nation choose their government," Ali Akbar Velayati was quoted as saying by the Tasnim news agency.
President Hassan Rouhani chaired a meeting of Iran's National Security Council on Saturday to discuss the latest developments in Turkey.
"We support Turkey's legal government and oppose any type of coup - either initiated domestically or supported by foreigners," National Security Council secretary Ali Shamkhani said after the meeting, quoted by state news agency IRNA.
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has spoken three times on the telephone with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, Iranian news agencies said.
Zarif said in a tweet he was "deeply concerned about the crisis in Turkey. Stability, democracy and safety of Turkish people are paramount".
He later praised Erdogan supporters who took to the streets to oppose the military move.
"Turkish people's brave defence of democracy and their elected government proves that coups have no place in our region and are doomed to fail," he said.
(This story corrects to remove reference to phone call between Turkish and Iranian presidents, quoted by Tasnim news agency, as call took place on July 5, not following coup attempt)
TUNIS (Reuters) - The 31-year-old Tunisian who killed 84 people by driving a truck through a Bastille Day crowd in Nice on Thursday spent years seeing psychologists before leaving Tunisia for France in 2005, his sister said.
"My brother had psychological problems, and we have given the police documents showing that he had been seeing psychologists for several years," Rabeb Bouhlel, Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel's sister, told Reuters.
Bouhlel's father told French television that the family had sought medical treatment after his son had a breakdown.
"He had psychological problems that caused a nervous breakdown; he would become angry, shout, break everything around him," Mohamed Mondher Lahouaiej Bouhlel told the TF1 and France 2 channels. "We had to take him to the doctor."
Bouhlel, who was shot dead by police, was from Msaken, about 120 km (75 miles) south of Tunis, and had last visited the town four years ago.
Former neighbours and relatives there expressed shock at the Nice attack, describing Bouhlel as sporty, uninterested in religion and from a regular family.
Rebab, Bouhlel's sister, said her brother had not been in the habit of calling the family. "But recently, over the past month, he was calling us every day and he sent us money ... He called several times a day."
Ibrahim Bouhlel, a nephew, said his uncle had never had money problems, and had told relatives this week that he was planning a trip back to Tunisia for a family party.
Rebab and Ibrahim Bouhlel said there was no sign of unusual behaviour or Islamist radicalisation when he called.
French investigators have not disclosed any direct evidence linking Bouhlel with jihadism, although the militant group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack on Saturday.
TF1 and other French media quoted people close to Bouhlel as saying he ate pork and drank alcohol, behaviour that would be unlikely in a devout Muslim.
NICE, France (Reuters) - The pebbly beaches of Nice can all but disappear beneath a carpet of bronzing bodies on a normal July weekend.
By the early afternoon on Saturday, 36 hours after a gunman drove a truck into a waterfront crowd killing 84 people, numbers were way down.
"Normally we are packed. We have far fewer clients and that's what the terrorists want," said one worker, William, trying to rent out loungers for 19 euros a day at the southeastern city's Galion private beach.
No one was expecting business as usual so soon after the horrific Bastille Day attack. But business has been weak all summer. "It's the worst season I've seen for a long time, I'd say 10 years," he added.
Security fears have been hurting France's vital tourism industry, typically responsible for about 7 percent of GDP, since a series of Islamist militant attacks began in January 2015, most of them in the capital.
Fewer than two dozen of Galion's 250 deck-chairs were occupied on Saturday afternoon. There was a similar scene about 50 metres along the sea front at the Plage Ruhl.
This time last year, manager Marie-Jose Malacarne was taking 15,000 euros a day. This Saturday she doubts she will take more than 3,000.
"Its true and I'm afraid. In summer with this lovely weather, normally we are full. I think we'll see a bit of a drop. Seventy percent of our clients are foreigners," she said.
Nice says only Paris attracts more visitors in France. Its beaches, restaurants and Riviera ambience account for 40 percent of the Cote d'Azur region's tourism and, in a normal year, attract 5 million people.
Tourism typically provides a living for about 40 percent of its 343,000 inhabitants.
But this is not a typical year. Authorities closed the market in the city centre Cour Saleya district for security reasons after the truck attack.
"There's no ambience, there's nobody, we're not happy, said waiter Ouadi at La Civette cafe. "The clients are gone ... Hopefully next week activity will pick up again."
Back at the Galion beach, British visitor Mike Bramah said he was determined to come out almost as an act of defiance.
"We weren't not going to come," he said, as a coastguard vessel patrolled the cobalt blue waters of the Baie des Anges in front of him.
"First you can't let these things put you off and second there's probably more security here than anywhere else right now."
LUXEMBOURG (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Saturday that creative leadership was needed to bring the best possible outcome from Britain's decision to leave the European Union.
Speaking in Luxembourg, Kerry reiterated that the United States did not want Brexit and "did not think it was a good idea", but respected the outcome of the June 23 referendum.
"While sometimes things look bleak and difficult, there’s opportunity in everything, and you have to find the opportunity, you have to work to do that with creative leadership," he said.
"I am absolutely confident that if people approach this thoughtfully, studiously, soberly, with creativity, there is a way to find strength out of whatever we do ahead."
Kerry is due to attend a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday before heading to Britain.
His counterpart in Luxembourg, Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn, said the European Union and Britain had to find a way of dealing with the situation, "because we need each other in the future".
"We have to negotiate a very, very strong and effective relationship between both of us," he said.
On Thursday, new British Prime Minister Theresa May told European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker -- a former prime minister of Luxembourg -- that Britain hopes to hold positive talks with the EU over its divorce from the bloc, but needed time to prepare.
Asselborn said the United States and the European Union faced a challenge in convincing their populations of the merits of an EU-U.S. Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership  (TTIP) that is under negotiation.
"We have to try to create conditions to reassure our citizens that all we are doing in these negotiations will not diminish or dilute the competencies of the parliaments, or the governments and that we will stick to high standards on both sides concerning he rights of the consumers ... labor standards and environmental standards," he said.
"It's a bumpy road ahead, but ... I think there is on both sides the political will to find the best outcome."
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian rebels praised Turks on Saturday for standing firm against a "conspiracy" to overthrow President Tayyip Erdogan, one of the main regional supporters of their fight against President Bashar al-Assad.
"We congratulate the Turkish government...for the victory of the Turkish people and the government they elected," said a statement issued in the name of the Free Syrian Army (FSA).
It said the Turkish people had thwarted a "great conspiracy which targeted the stability and security of the country", and had shown the world that their will would not be broken.
The statement was sent to Reuters by Jaysh al-Nasr, a Western-backed faction which is part of the broad FSA umbrella of rebel groups.
Forces loyal to Erdogan's government were fighting on Saturday to crush the remnants of a military coup which crumbled after crowds answered his call to take to the streets and dozens of rebels abandoned their tanks.
First reports of the coup had triggered celebrations in central Damascus and other government-held areas of Syria, with hundreds of people taking to the streets of the capital, cheering and waving Syrian flags.
There was no immediate official response in Syria to the attempted coup in its northern neighbour, but state television had extensive coverage of the overnight turmoil.
The Syrian government has accused Erdogan of fuelling conflict in Syria by supporting Islamist insurgents battling Damascus and allowing foreign jihadis to cross the border from Turkey into Syria.
Syria's civil war, now in its sixth year, began as a peaceful uprising against Assad before developing into a multi-sided conflict that is estimated to have killed several hundred thousand people and spawned an international refugee crisis.
Turkey alone is hosting 2.7 million refugees.
Numerous rebel groups operating under the banner of the Free Syrian Army have received aid via Turkey as part of a programme of military support that has also been backed by the United States.
Turkey is also widely believed to have backed Islamist groups such as Ahrar al-Sham, although it has fiercely denied accusations that it has supported the Islamic State group.
SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Authorities in Indian-controlled Kashmir seized newspapers and shut down cable television on Saturday, aiming to quell a flare up of tensions in the region which has seen violent protests over the killing of a separatist commander by security forces.
Around 36 people have been killed and 3,100 wounded, most of them by police fire, in the worst outbreak of violence in six years in the disputed territory also claimed by India's arch rival Pakistan.
The state of Jammu and Kashmir has already imposed a curfew and blocked mobile phone services to stop people from gathering in the streets and stage more protests over last week's killing of 22-year old separatist leader Burhan Wani.
"The clamp-down was necessitated as Pakistani channels that are beamed here through cable television network have launched a campaign aimed at fomenting trouble here," said a Jammu and Kashmir government minister who declined to be named. "Some newspapers were also sensationalising the violence ... We will take a decision on (their) restoration after July 19."
Abdul Rashid Mukhdoomi, printer and publisher of Kashmir valley’s largest circulated daily, Greater Kashmir, said police raided his printing press at 2 a.m. and "took away all the newspapers that were printed and the printing was also stopped".
"We were not handed over any order under which the printing and circulation of our newspapers were stopped," Mukhdoomi said.
Cable TV networks across Kashmir remain shut.
Amjad Noor, owner of Site Entertainment Network which runs a cable network in Srinagar, told Reuters police told his organisation to shut down operations last night.
Separatist leaders on Friday evening called for a 72 hour strike and protests against the killings of civilians. They said in a statement they also supported Pakistan's call to observe a "black day" on July 19 against the killings.
Pakistan's Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, has said he was shocked by the killing of Wani and the civilians.
India's foreign ministry said on Friday it was dismayed by Pakistan's attempt to "interfere in our internal matters".
SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Authorities in Indian-controlled Kashmir seized newspapers and shut down cable television on Saturday, aiming to quell a flare up of tensions in the region which has seen violent protests over the killing of a separatist commander by security forces.
Around 36 people have been killed and 3,100 wounded, most of them by police fire, in the worst outbreak of violence in six years in the disputed territory also claimed by India's arch rival Pakistan.
The state of Jammu and Kashmir has already imposed a curfew and blocked mobile phone services to stop people from gathering in the streets and stage more protests over last week's killing of 22-year old separatist leader Burhan Wani.
"The clamp-down was necessitated as Pakistani channels that are beamed here through cable television network have launched a campaign aimed at fomenting trouble here," said a Jammu and Kashmir government minister who declined to be named. "Some newspapers were also sensationalising the violence ... We will take a decision on (their) restoration after July 19."
Abdul Rashid Mukhdoomi, printer and publisher of Kashmir valley’s largest circulated daily, Greater Kashmir, said police raided his printing press at 2 a.m. and "took away all the newspapers that were printed and the printing was also stopped".
"We were not handed over any order under which the printing and circulation of our newspapers were stopped," Mukhdoomi said.
Cable TV networks across Kashmir remain shut.
Amjad Noor, owner of Site Entertainment Network which runs a cable network in Srinagar, told Reuters police told his organisation to shut down operations last night.
Separatist leaders on Friday evening called for a 72 hour strike and protests against the killings of civilians. They said in a statement they also supported Pakistan's call to observe a "black day" on July 19 against the killings.
Pakistan's Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, has said he was shocked by the killing of Wani and the civilians.
India's foreign ministry said on Friday it was dismayed by Pakistan's attempt to "interfere in our internal matters".
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish Airlines flights are due to resume as normal at 1100 GMT on Saturday, the flagship carrier's chairman told CNN Turk.
The airline had diverted 35 airplanes and cancelled 32 flights on Saturday at Istanbul's main airport, Ilker Ayci told the broadcaster.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday turmoil in Turkey threatened regional stability and called on the Turkish authorities to resolve the situation without violence and within the country's constitutional framework.
It spoke out as forces loyal to the Turkish government fought on Saturday to crush the remnants of a military coup attempt which crumbled after crowds answered President Tayyip Erdogan's call to take to the streets and dozens of rebels abandoned their tanks.
Relations between the Kremlin and Erdogan remain strained over the Syria crisis and the Turkish shooting down of a Russian fighter jet in November despite an agreement last month to resume bilateral cooperation after a period of tension.
"In Moscow we are gravely concerned about events inside the Turkish republic," the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
"The escalation of the political situation (in Turkey) against the backdrop of existing terrorist threats in this country and of armed conflict in the region pose heightened risks for international and regional stability."
Russian authorities have in the past accused Erdogan of ignoring the smuggling of Islamic State oil from Syria to Turkey and of overseeing what they have called the problematic Islamisation of Turkish society.
Erdogan has rejected the smuggling charges as slander.
Russian trade sanctions on Turkey, imposed over the shooting down of the fighter jet, remain in place despite the Kremlin saying last month that Erdogan had apologised to President Vladimir Putin over the incident.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said the coup attempt showed something was badly wrong in Turkish society.
"What happened shows that in society and within the army of the Turkish Republic there are powerful deep contradictions which have bubbled to the surface," Medvedev told reporters after a summit in Mongolia.
The Russian Foreign Ministry said it confirmed its readiness to work with Turkey's legitimately-elected leadership, especially when it came to tackling terrorism.
Authorities were working to ensure the safety of Russian citizens in Turkey, traditionally one of the most popular holiday destinations for them, the ministry said. Dmitry Peskov, Putin's spokesman, said officials had been ordered to help Russian nationals return home as soon as possible.
Putin was being kept constantly updated, he added.
The TASS news agency reported that Russian airlines had  suspended regular passenger flights to Turkey.
Turkey is one of the largest importers of Russian grain. Russian Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev said he hoped the turmoil would not seriously affect exports.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan sent a mass text message to Turkish mobile phones on Saturday imploring Turks to "stand up" for democracy and peace.
The message which came from "RT ERDOGAN" and was signed with his full name, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, also called on people to take to the streets against a "narrow cadre".
LONDON (Reuters) - British Airways said it had cancelled all flights to and from Turkey that were due to fly on Saturday, and at least one flight departing from Istanbul on Sunday, following an attempted coup in the country.
BA said in a statement it would also keep flights to Turkey under review.
"In the light of events in Turkey we have cancelled all flights to and from Turkey on Saturday 16 July 2016, and BA675 departing from Istanbul on Sunday 17 July," it said.
"The safety and security of our customers and crew are always our top priority and we would never operate a flight unless it was safe to do so."
SOFIA (Reuters) - Turkey has reopened border crossings with neighbouring Bulgaria after closing them in the early hours of Saturday following a coup attempt, a Bulgarian border police spokeswoman said.
"Traffic both ways to and from Turkey for all types of vehicles was restored at around 11 am on Saturday (0800 GMT)," border police spokeswoman Lora Lubenova said.
All flights from Istanbul to Sofia for Saturday have been cancelled, according to the Sofia airport's website.
Bulgaria has bolstered patrols along its border with Turkey and Prime Minister Boiko Borisov has expressed hope that the situation will be resolved in a lawful and democratic way.
PARIS (Reuters) - An app launched last month by the French government to alert users to attacks failed to flash a warning until more than three hours after a truck rammed into crowds in the Riviera city of Nice on Bastille day, the interior ministry said.
The app, called SAIP, was launched by the interior ministry just before the Euro 2016 soccer championship and was supposed to flash a warning on a user's mobile phone screen if there was an attack close to their location or suspicion of an imminent strike.
The app did not send its first notification until 0134 am local time (2334 GMT), more than three hours after the 31-year Tunisian drove down the Promenade des Anglais seaside boulevard, killing 84 people and injuring scores more.
"Information related to the attack in Nice on July 14 was sent out much too late by the SAIP app," the interior ministry said in a statement, adding that the app's designers had been summoned to a crisis meeting on Friday afternoon.
"An action plan has been demanded without delay so that such an incident cannot happen again," the ministry said.
The message prepared by the local prefecture was ready to go at about 23:15, but a technical glitch prevented the app designed by French company Deveryware to send out the warning, Les Echos newspaper said, citing government sources.
Deveryware did not immediately return a request for comment.
One Nice-based Twitter user called Nathan Lellouche, who posted a picture of the app showing a "no incident ongoing" message the night of the attack, tweeted: "This app had one job and it doesn't even do it."
BELGRADE (Reuters) - Serbian police and army will form joint patrols to protect the country's borders from illegal crossings of migrants mostly coming from Afghanistan and Pakistan, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said on Saturday.
Around 100,000 migrants from Middle East, Asia and Africa have passed through Serbia so far in 2016 despite the closure of the so-called "Balkan route", which hundreds of thousands used last year to reach Western Europe.
"Serbia does not want to become a collective centre for migrants," Vucic said following a meeting of the country's top security body.
Vucic said most of the migrants enter Serbia from Bulgaria. "Majority of them come from Pakistan and Afghanistan and they have no chance to cross to Hungary," he said.
Last month Hungary, Serbia's northern neighbour and an EU member, adopted a law that allows police to send back illegal migrants detained within eight kilometres (five miles) of its razor wire-fenced southern frontier with Serbia.
Hungary has also limited the number of daily admissions to the transit zone to a maximum of 30. The move created a bottleneck, with migrants creating makeshift camps near the transit zones between the two countries.
More than 650,000 people, many of them fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and elsewhere, passed through Serbia last year on their way to the European Union.
This route was largely shut down in March after a series of border closures by EU states.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility on Saturday for the deadly attack in the Riviera city of Nice on Thursday that killed at least 84 people.
"The person who carried out the operation in Nice, France, to run down people was one of the soldiers of Islamic State," the news agency Amaq, which supports Islamic State, said via its Telegram account.
"He carried out the operation in response to calls to target nationals of states that are part of the coalition fighting Islamic State," the statement said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's armed forces are determined to remove members of the "parallel structure" from their ranks, the military's acting chief of staff said on Saturday.
Umit Dundar made the comment in a statement read live in the capital Ankara and carried by broadcaster CNN Turk. The "parallel structure" is a shorthand commonly used by President Tayyip Erdogan and others in the government to refer to followers of Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Another uprising attempt in Turkey could be staged at any time, Turkey's presidency said on Twitter on Saturday, adding it was necessary to stay in charge of the streets.
Operations to take back control of the armed forces headquarters in Ankara were still underway, a Turkish official said. Police special forces and the military are securing the perimeter of the headquarters, the official said.
"Shots were fired by a military officer from inside the walls earlier this morning."
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Many Turkish military commanders have been taken hostage by soldiers who attempted a coup, the acting chief of staff of the armed forces, Umit Dundar, said on Saturday.
He also said in a live statement broadcast on CNN Turk that Turkey has "closed the chapter" on coups for good, and that it would never be re-opened again.
ULAANBAATAR (Reuters) - A key summit between Asian and European leaders in Mongolia ended on Saturday without direct mention of the South China Sea dispute in its closing statement, with diplomats describing intense discord over the issue between Europe and Asia.
China has refused to recognize Tuesday's ruling by an arbitration court in The Hague invalidating its vast claims in the South China Sea and did not take part in the proceedings brought by the Philippines. It has reacted angrily to calls by Western countries and Japan for the decision to be adhered to.
China had flagged ahead of the Ulaanbaatar get-together that it did not want the South China Sea to be discussed, saying it was not an appropriate venue.
The closing statement said leaders reaffirmed a commitment to promote maritime security, safety and cooperation, freedom of navigation and overflight and to refrain from using threatening force.
It also said disputes should be resolved via international law, the United Nations charter and U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea, or UNCLOS.
European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters he hoped the court's decision would create positive momentum in finding a solution to the dispute.
"Still, it's not so easy to agree with our Chinese partners when it comes to these issues but our talks were difficult, tough but also promising," he said.
On Friday, the European Union issued a statement noting China's legal defeat but avoided direct reference to Beijing, reflecting discord among EU governments over how strongly to respond to the court ruling.
While the European Union is neutral in China's dispute with its Asian neighbors in the South China Sea, Britain, France and Germany want to make clear that Beijing must uphold international law as it seeks a bigger global role.
But speaking with one European voice has become difficult as some smaller governments, including Hungary and Greece, rely on Chinese investment and are unwilling to criticize Beijing.
The panel ruled Beijing's actions in the South China Sea, through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually, had interfered with the Philippines' sovereign rights. Brunei, Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims to the strategic waterway.
There was no bilateral meeting between the Chinese and Philippines foreign ministers, a Philippine diplomatic source told Reuters, though the Chinese initially requested a meeting at the beginning of the summit.
Chinese officials did not speak to foreign reporters during the summit. China's Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the summit and the South China Sea.
State news agency Xinhua quoted Chinese Premier Li Keqiang as saying on Saturday in Ulaanbaatar that the court's decision would have "no impact whatsoever" on Chinese sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea.
Li had told Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe the previous day that Japan should stop interfering in the issue.
Japan met with several countries including the Philippines and Vietnam and told them Japan would cooperate with them to enforce the decision, a foreign ministry spokesman said.
A diplomat from Russia, which has close ties with China and has supported its position over the arbitration case, said the West was hectoring. 
"If you understand how the other side lives, you're more tolerant," he said. "The West always starts with teaching. Asians never do that."
A Mongolian diplomat said negotiations over the closing statement were "intense".
"The Europeans wanted lots on the South China Sea but the Asians didn't."
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A fire broke out at a hydrocracker unit on Saturday morning at the Ufaneftekhim refinery owned by Russian oil company Bashneft in the Urals, killing three people and injuring another two, the company said.
The fire was localised by 0550 Moscow time (0250 GMT), Bashneft said in a statement. Three people were still unaccounted for.
There was no danger to the local population or ecology of the region, the company said.
DOHA (Reuters) - Qatar condemned on Saturday an attempted military coup and said the emir telephoned Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan to express support for measures taken by the government to maintain stability in the country.
Turkish troops said on Friday they had seized power in the country but by morning loyalist forces had crushed the bid after crowds took to the streets to support Erdogan.
"The state of Qatar expressed its strong denunciation and condemnation of the military coup attempt, lawlessness, and violation of the constitutional legitimacy in the Republic of Turkey," Qatar's Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
The Qatari state news agency said the emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, telephoned Erdogan to "congratulate him for the support the Turkish people have shown around Turkey's leadership".
"His highness also expressed strong condemnation and denunciation of this failed attempt and Qatar's stand and solidarity with the brotherly Turkish republic  in all measures it is taking to protect the constitutional legitimacy and implement the law...," it added.
The two countries have provided support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, backed rebels fighting to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, and raised the alarm about what they say is creeping Iranian influence in the region.
Other Gulf Arab countries have yet to comment publicly on the coup attempt, but some have urged citizens in the country to stay home and to remain in contact with diplomatic missions.
Saudi Arabia's national carrier said on Saturday it had suspended all flights to Turkey until further notice.
In April, Turkey set up a military base in Qatar as part of a defence agreement intensifying its partnership with the Gulf state at a time of rising instability and a perceived waning of U.S. interest in the region.
One of the wealthiest countries in the world, Qatar is home to the largest U.S. air base in the Middle East, Al Udeid, where around 10,000 military personnel are stationed.
NICE, France (Reuters) - French authorities were trying to determine on Friday whether a Tunisian who killed at least 84 people by plowing a truck into Bastille Day crowds had acted alone or with accomplices, but said the attack bore the hallmarks of Islamist militants.
Thursday night's attack in the Riviera city of Nice plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Those attacks, and one in Brussels four months ago, shocked Western Europe, already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration, open borders and pockets of Islamist radicalism.
The truck zigzagged along the city's seafront Promenade des Anglais as a fireworks display marking the French national day ended. It careered into families and friends listening to an orchestra or strolling above the Mediterranean beach towards the century-old grand Hotel Negresco.
At least 10 children were among the dead. Of the scores of injured, 25 were on life support, authorities said on Friday.
Witness Franck Sidoli said he had watched people mown down before the truck finally stopped just five meters away from him.
"A woman was there, she lost her son. Her son was on the ground, bleeding," he told Reuters at the scene.
The driver, 31-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, was shot dead by officers at the scene. He was known to police for petty crimes but was not on a watch list of suspected militants. He had one criminal conviction, for road rage, and was sentenced to probation three months ago for throwing a wooden pallet at another driver.
The investigation "will try to determine whether he benefited from accomplices," Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. "It will also try to find out whether Mohamed Laouaiej Bouhlel had ties to Islamist terrorist organizations."
"Although yesterday's attack has not been claimed, this sort of thing fits in perfectly with calls for murder from such terrorist organizations," Molins added.
Bouhlel's ex-wife was in police custody, Molins said. He had three children. Police found one pistol and various fake weapons in his truck.
French Prime Minister Manuel Valls told the evening news that Bouhlel was "one way or another" linked to radical Islam.   "Yes, it is a terrorist act and we shall see what links there are with terrorist organizations."
Yet despite numerous French officials from President Francois Hollande down describing it as a terrorist attack, by nightfall on Friday officials still had not disclosed any direct evidence linking Bouhlel with extremists.
Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, asked if he could confirm the attacker's motives were linked to jihadism, said: "No. ... We have an individual who was not known to intelligence services for activities linked to jihadism."
A U.S. official familiar with Washington's assessment said the attack was thought to have been carried out by a "lone wolf" inspired but not directed by Islamic State.
The former top terrorism investigator for the French judicial system said that while the attack fits the profile of the kind undertaken by militant groups, the available evidence suggests the attacker had no evident connection with militant organizations or ideology.
Jean-Louis Bruguiere, formerly the top Paris-based investigative magistrate handling terrorism-related cases, told Reuters no French or European intelligence or security agency had any trace on the suspect and no evidence has surfaced to connect him to any militant group or other suspects or even to casual contact with militant literature or propaganda.
He said so far there is no evidence Bouhlel had any association with any religious group or faction but that there was evidence he was estranged from his family and going through some kind of divorce.
Dawn broke on Friday with pavements smeared with dried blood. Smashed strollers, an uneaten baguette and other debris were strewn about. Small areas were screened off and what appeared to be bodies covered in blankets were visible.
The truck was still where it had come to rest, its windscreen riddled with bullets.
"I saw this enormous white truck go past at top speed," said Suzy Wargniez, 65, who had watched from a cafe on the promenade.
At Nice's Pasteur hospital, medical staff were treating large numbers of injured. Waiting for friends being operated on was 20-year-old Fanny.
"The truck pushed me to the side. When I opened my eyes I saw faces I didn't know and started asking for help," she told Reuters. "Some of my friends were not so lucky. They are having operations as we speak."
Neighbors in the neighborhood in northern Nice where Bouhlel lived described him as handsome but an unsettling presence.
"I would say he was someone who was pleasing to women," said neighbor Hanan, standing in the lobby of the apartment building where Bouhlel lived. "But he was frightening. He didn't have a frightening face, but ... a look. He would stare at the children a lot."
Bouhlel's Tunisian home town Msaken is about 10 km (six miles) outside the coastal city of Sousse, where a gunman killed 38 people, mostly British holidaymakers, on a beach a year ago. Many people from the area have moved to France, including Nice, and money they send back has made it comparatively prosperous.
A former neighbor in Msaken told Reuters Bouhlel had left for France in 2005 after getting married, and had worked as a driver.
Relatives and neighbors in Msaken said Bouhlel was sporty and had shown no sign of being radicalized, including when he last returned for the wedding of a sister four years ago.
A nephew, Ibrahim, said he had called three days ago saying he was preparing a trip back for a family party. Bouhlel's brother, Jabeur, said he doubted his sibling was the attacker.
"Why would my brother do something like this?" he told Reuters, adding: "We've been calling him since yesterday evening but he's not responding."
Nice, a city of 350,000, has a history as a flamboyant aristocratic resort but is also a gritty metropolis, where Islamist radicalism has brewed, away from the scenic streets of its old town. It and the surrounding Alpes-Maritimes region, with a population of just over a million, are thought to have produced as many as 10 percent of the French citizens who have traveled to wage jihad in the Middle East.
After Thursday's attack, a state of emergency imposed across France after the November attacks in Paris was extended by three months and military and police reservists were to be called up.
"France is filled with sadness by this new tragedy," Hollande said in a dawn address that called it an act of terrorism.
Nice-Matin journalist Damien Allemand had been watching the firework display when the truck tore by. After taking cover in a cafe, he wrote on his paper's website of what he saw: "Bodies every five meters, limbs ... Blood. Groans."
"The beach attendants were first on the scene. They brought water for the injured and towels, which they placed on those for whom there was no more hope."
Police carried out a controlled explosion on a white van near the home, blowing the doors open and leaving shattered glass all around. It was not clear what they found.
With presidential and parliamentary elections less than a year away, French opposition politicians seized on what they described as security failings that made it possible for the truck to career 2 km (1.5 miles) through large crowds before it was finally halted.
Christian Estrosi, a security hardliner who was mayor of Nice until last month and is now president of the wider Riviera region, had written on the eve of the attack to Hollande to demand more funding for police.
"As far as I'm concerned, I demand answers, and not the usual stuff," Estrosi told BFM TV hours after the attack, questioning whether the government had provided enough national police officers for the fireworks display.
France is a major part of a U.S.-led mission conducting air strikes and special forces operations against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and has also sent troops to West Africa to battle Islamist insurgents.
"We will further strengthen our actions in Syria and Iraq," Hollande said, calling the tragedy - on the day France marks the 1789 revolutionary storming of the Bastille prison in Paris - an attack on liberty by fanatics who despised human rights.
"We are facing a battle that will be long because facing us is an enemy that wants to continue to strike all people and all countries that have values like ours," he said.
France is home to the European Union's biggest Muslim population, mostly descended from immigrants from North African former colonies. It maintains a secular culture that allows no place for religion in schools and civic life, which supporters say encourages a common French identity but critics say contributes to alienation in some communities.
The Paris attack in November was the bloodiest among a number in France and Belgium in the past two years. On Sunday, a weary nation had breathed a sigh of relief that the month-long Euro 2016 soccer tournament had ended without serious incident.
Four months ago, Belgian Islamists linked to the Paris attackers killed 32 people in Brussels. Recent weeks have also seen major attacks in Bangladesh, Turkey and Iraq.
U.S. President Barack Obama condemned what he said "appears to be a horrific terrorist attack". In televised remarks he later said the United States would stand with France and keep up the fight against Islamic State: "We will not be deterred. We will not relent."
On social media, Islamic State supporters celebrated the high death toll and posted a series of images, one showing a beach purporting to be that of Nice with white stones arranged to read "IS is here to stay" in Arabic.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish authorities have detained 1,563 military personnel across the country after a coup attempt overnight by a faction of the military, an official told Reuters.
The soldiers attempted to use tanks and attack helicopters to overthrow the government.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's intelligence agency headquarters were attacked by military helicopters and heavy machinegun fire during an attempted military coup overnight, wounding at least three people, an intelligence source told Reuters on Saturday.
The head of the agency, Hakan Fidan, was at a secure location throughout the events and was in constant contact with President Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, the source said.
The intelligence agency was still working with the armed forces, the police and the government against the coup plotters in ongoing operations in Istanbul and Ankara in particular, the source said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Saturday urged his supporters to remain on the streets until the situation normalises after military officers attempted a coup.
Addressing a crowd of thousands of supporters waving flags at Istanbul's main airport, Erdogan said the government remained at the helm. He also said disturbances continued in the capital Ankara and he hoped they would end soon.
He added that flights by flag carrier Turkish Airlines had resumed.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China will prosecute a prominent Chinese human rights lawyer on charges of subverting state power after months of secret detention, prosecutors said on Friday, the latest move by authorities to crack down on dissent.
President Xi Jinping's administration has tightened control over almost every aspect of civil society since 2012, citing the need to buttress national security and stability.
China consistently rejects any criticism of its human rights record, saying it adheres to the rule of law, that all are equal under the law and that those who break the law can expect to be punished.
Dozens of lawyers and activists associated with the Beijing Fengrui law firm have been swept up in the crackdown and held since last July, triggering concern in Western capitals.
The firm has represented several high-profile clients, including the ethnic Uighur dissident, Ilham Tohti.
State media has accused the firm and its associates of orchestrating protests outside courts and politicizing ordinary legal cases in order to attract international attention.
Zhou Shifeng, the firm's director, will be prosecuted on charges of subverting state power, the prosecutor in the northern city of Tianjin said in a brief statement on its official microblog, without giving details.
An official reached by telephone at the prosecutor's office declined further comment.
It was not clear who Zhou's own lawyer currently is.
Shang Baojun, another well-known rights lawyer, told Reuters that Zhou's previous legal team had all been replaced by government-appointed lawyers.
"To be honest, we don't know anything more about his case than you do," Shang said, adding that a court date could still be two months off, according to Chinese law.
The prosecutor said in the same statement that three other rights activists - Hu Shigen, Zhai Yanmin and Gou Hongguo - would also be prosecuted on the same charges.
It was also not possible to immediately locate lawyers for them for comment.
In severe cases, the charges can result in life sentences.
Late on Friday, the official Legal Daily published two commentaries on its website saying those involved in Fengrui had challenged state security and the political system, and criticised Western countries for hyping up the issue for their own purposes and accused them of bankrolling rights lawyers.
"A small number of 'rights lawyers' have become the leverage the West uses in its political contest with China," the paper said.
Last week, U.S. legislators criticised China's detention of the lawyers, a year after the crackdown against them began, while Germany urged China to live up to its human rights obligations.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Around 50 soldiers involved in an attempted military coup in Turkey surrendered on one of the bridges across the Bosphorus in Istanbul on Saturday, abandoning their tanks with their hands raised in the air, live footage on CNN Turk showed.
A Reuters witness earlier saw tens of other pro-coup soldiers surrendering to armed police after being surrounded in Istanbul's central Taksim square.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish authorities shot down a military helicopter apparently operated by soldiers trying to stage a coup as it fired on the offices of state satellite operator Turksat in the capital Ankara on Saturday, broadcaster CNN Turk said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Bomb attacks on Turkey's parliament are continuing, a senior Turkish official said on Saturday, adding that rebel soldiers have been warned they will be shot down if they attempt to use more military aircraft.
The official also said there were more fatalities in Istanbul, in addition to the 42 killed in Ankara, in an attempted coup by a section of the military.
PANAMA CITY (Reuters) - Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega will undergo surgery to remove a benign brain tumour, his doctor said on Friday.
The tumor, called a meningioma, was detected several years ago and has kept growing, his doctor Eduardo Reyes said by telephone.
Noriega, 82, would be transferred from prison to a hospital on Monday and was scheduled for surgery on Thursday, Reyes said.
Noriega, who ruled Panama from 1983 to 1989 and is currently serving time in prison on murder charges, asked Panamanians last year to forgive him and his former colleagues.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The attempted military coup in Turkey exploded across social media late on Friday despite restricted access to Twitter, Facebook and YouTube during the first hours of the putsch.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, an avowed enemy of social media who has frequently made Twitter and Facebook a target, addressed the country via a FaceTime video call that was shown on TV.
He also tweeted: "I call our nation to the airports and the squares to take ownership of our democracy and our national will" and retweeted posts from the prime minister and the official presidency account condemning the coup.
Critics of Erdogan were quick to note the irony of his using a medium that he has repeatedly denounced to save his own presidency.
At the same time, both supporters and opponents of the coup inundated social networks with commentary and images, many of them live videos.
Vivid but often confusing scenes from Turkey unfolded on screens across the world as videos showed explosions at the Turkish parliament, helicopters firing on protesters and opponents of the coup standing in front of tanks.
“It’s almost 2 a.m. and mosques across Istanbul are relentlessly calling people to the streets to resist and protest the military coup,” wrote Twitter user Ceylan Yeginsu.
Backers of the coup criticized Erdogan's rule, using social media to urge government opponents to take to the streets.
A map of all Facebook Live videos showed dozens of live streams coming out of Turkey, including videos of hundreds of people gathered out on the streets. On Twitter, users shared images and videos of scenes in Istanbul and Ankara, with gunshots heard in the background of some videos.
Turkey's military said on Friday it had seized power, but the prime minister said the attempted coup would be put down and Erdogan himself later vowed to punish the plotters.
During the initial phases of the uprising by a section of the military, it was difficult or impossible to access social media for many users except by using a "virtual private network" to bypass local internet providers, local residents and monitoring groups said.
Twitter said it suspected an "intentional slowing" of its traffic. YouTube said it was aware of reports that its site was down in Turkey although it was not experiencing any apparent technical difficulties, indicating that an order to restrict access came from within Turkey.
It was not immediately clear whether the government or another actor ordered blockages, but it later appeared that service had been restored.
Hotspot Shield, an app that allows users to connect to virtual private networks, said it saw a more than 300 percent increase in new downloads in Turkey within two hours of the coup becoming public knowledge.
The Turkish government under Erdogan has repeatedly moved to block social media in periods of crisis and political uncertainty.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Forty-two people were killed in the Turkish capital Ankara during an attempted coup that started on Friday night, a senior Turkish official said, confirming an earlier report from state-run Anadolu Agency.
Seventeen of those killed were police officers, Anadolu said.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Rebel soldiers in Ankara and Istanbul were still firing from the air early on Saturday, although fighter jets have taken off to deal with rogue military aircraft, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said.
Yildirim also said more than 130 people had been detained in relation to the coup attempt, and that the plotters had opened fire on civilians without hesitation.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Two Chinese men who fled abroad after being suspected of corruption have returned home to face charges, China's anti-graft watchdog said on Friday, the latest suspects caught up in a sweeping campaign by the leadership to tackle graft.
One of the suspects was identified as Zhu Haiping, general manager of Shenzhen Yuwei Industry Co., who fled to the United States in 1998 after coming under suspicion of fraud, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) said on its website.
The second suspect, Guo Liaowu, a deputy manager of a company called Wuhan Iron and Steel Group Mining Co., fled to Australia in 2010 after being suspected of bribery, the commission said.
Both "chose to return to their country to give themselves up", the commission said.
A spokeswoman for Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said neither Bishop nor her department were aware of the circumstances of Guo's return from Australia to China.
China has vowed to pursue an overseas search dubbed Operation "Fox Hunt" for corrupt officials and business executives, and their assets.
It has been pushing for extradition treaties with various countries but Western countries have been reluctant to help, not wanting to send people to a country where rights groups say mistreatment of suspects is a concern.
The CCDI said more than 381 corruption suspects had been repatriated from more than 40 countries.
China last year urged the United States to start talks on an extradition treaty, something the United States has been reluctant to do.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Abu Omar al-Shishani, who the Pentagon described as Islamic State's "minister of war", was killed in combat in the Iraqi city of Shirqat, south of Mosul, a news agency that supports the militant group said on Wednesday.
The Pentagon said in March that Shishani had likely been killed in a U.S. air strike in Syria, but this was the first time the group appeared to confirm his death.
Reuters could not independently verify the statement from Amaq news agency, which Islamic State regularly uses to issue reports and which denied Shishani's death after the Pentagon's comments in March.
Islamic State supporters exchanged notes of praise and condolence on social media, including pictures of the ginger-bearded fighter, and pledged to launch a fresh offensive in his honour.
Officials at the Pentagon said they were aware of Wednesday's report but could not confirm or deny it.
Hisham al-Hashimi, a Baghdad-based security expert who advises the Iraqi government, said a source in Shirqat confirmed Shishani had been killed there along with several other militants.
Iraqi forces are advancing towards Mosul, the largest city still under the control of Islamic State. They have mostly surrounded Shirqat, 250 km (160 miles) north of Baghdad, and last week retook a major air base from the militants to use in the main push on Mosul, 60 km further north.
But Rami Abdelrahman, head of the British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said Shishani had been wounded in March and died soon after in the countryside east of Raqqa.
"I confirmed from the doctor who went to see him," said Abdelrahman, who tracks the war in Syria through a network of contacts. He told Reuters Islamic State likely delayed announcing his death to allow time to line up a successor.
Shishani, also known as Omar the Chechen, ranked among America's most wanted militants under a U.S. program that offered up to $5 million for information to help remove him from the battlefield.
Born in 1986 in Georgia, then still part of the Soviet Union, Shishani had a reputation as a close military adviser to Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who was said by followers to have relied heavily on him.
Shishani once fought in military operations as a rebel in Chechnya before joining Georgia's military in 2006 and fighting against Russian troops before being discharged two years later for medical reasons, according to U.S. officials.
He was arrested in 2010 for weapons possession and spent more than a year in jail, before leaving Georgia in 2012 for Istanbul and later Syria.
He decided to join Islamic State the following year and pledged his allegiance to Baghdadi. The State Department said Shishani was identified as Islamic State's military commander in a video distributed by the group in 2014.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin on Thursday declined to comment on a newspaper report that the United States is proposing increased cooperation and intelligence-sharing with Russia to identify and target Islamic State and al Qaeda operations in Syria.
The proposal was set out in a document published by the Washington Post. It will be presented by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry during a visit to Moscow on Thursday, the newspaper reported.
"Once we have received these proposals from the original source and not from a newspaper, then we will be able to say  something," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with journalists.
He said Kerry would hold talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin late on Thursday and with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Friday.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told his Vietnamese counterpart on Thursday that he hoped Vietnam would together with China jointly safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea, state news agency Xinhua reported.
The two were meeting on the sidelines of a regional summit in the Mongolian capital, Ulaanbaatar, Xinhua added.
DUBAI (Reuters) - After a border official stopped him leaving Bahrain last week, citing a security order, Mohammed al-Tajer said he checked with the departments in charge of passports and investigations and was told no travel ban was in place.
The 50-year-old lawyer, who had been planning a short visit to Saudi Arabia, was not surprised. He had joined a growing list of people confined to their country as part of what rights groups describe as an attempt to crush the opposition.
Tajer said some people found out when they headed to the airport last month to fly to Geneva to attend a meeting by the U.N. Human Rights Council. Others were informed when they tried to cross the King Fahd Causeway to Saudi Arabia last week.
"There are 17 of us -- some of them are not rights activists or well known figures," Tajer, who has defended prominent Bahraini opposition activists, told Reuters.
Amnesty International says at least 19 people, including doctors, lawyers, academics and journalists, have been prevented from travelling abroad in the past month.
Bahrain's Sunni-led government, mainly drawn from the ruling al-Khalifa family, has been rattled by opposition calls for major reforms, including a cabinet chosen from an elected parliament, and a deep financial crisis that has forced it to cut subsidies and increase basic prices.
The crackdown also follows a deepening diplomatic row between Bahrain's main Sunni backer, Saudi Arabia, and Shi'ite power Iran.
The rift has grown wider since Iranian demonstrators, angry at the execution of a prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric in January, ransacked Saudi missions prompting Riyadh and Manama to sever diplomatic ties with Tehran.
Bahraini authorities had no immediate comment on the travel ban in general or on Tajer's situation. The government says it does not tolerate human rights violations and has established bodies to receive complaints.
Bahrain's National Institution for Human Rights (NIHR) said it had "noted with concern" the increased number of cases of travel bans and called for them to stop.
"The NIHR notes that decision to ban travel without a judicial order obstructs the constitutional of movement and travel, which contradicts the kingdom's international and regional commitments related to human rights," it said in a statement to Reuters.
Shaken by bouts of unrest since Arab Spring-style mass protests in 2011, Western-allied Bahrain, where the U.S. Fifth Fleet is based, has explained a crackdown on opponents in recent weeks as "correcting" the political discourse.
Since June, Bahraini authorities have closed down the main Shi'ite opposition group al-Wefaq, revoked the citizenship of top Shi'ite Muslim cleric Ayatollah Isa Qassim and re-arrested prominent rights campaigner Nabeel Rajab for anti-government Tweets. A court has also more than doubled the prison sentence on al-Wefaq leader Sheikh Ali Salman.
Rights groups have documented the travel bans.
The Bahrain Centre for Human Rights (BCHR) said on July 4 it had recorded at least 14 cases of rights campaigners and civil society activists having been banned from travel in June.
Amnesty International said it had recorded 21 cases since 2015, 19 of them in the past month alone.
"Preventing human rights defenders, journalists and former prisoners of conscience from leaving their own country is just one of a long list of repressive tactics the Bahraini authorities have sought to punish and muzzle its critics in recent weeks,” said Ariel Plotkin, Amnesty International’s Bahrain campaigner.
"Bahrain has entered a deeply worrying new phase of clampdown on human rights, instilling fear on civil society."
Apart from Tajer, they include Sharaf al-Mousawi, the head of Bahrain's branch of Transparency International, Rula al-Saffar, president of the Bahrain Nursing Society and brain surgeon Taha al-Durazi and his wife.
On July 7, Bahraini journalist and activist Ahmed Radhi was banned from boarding a flight from Manama to Oman, without any prior notification of any ban imposed on him.
"My name is not on any list of banned people and I have a certificate of good conduct from the investigations department, yet I am banned from travel," Radhi said, according to his Twitter account.
Tajer said it was normal in Bahrain for people to be punished with measures such as travel bans without an official order being presented by any party.
"Don't be astonished. Many things that cannot be explained happen," Taker said. "In Bahrain, everything is possible, especially against people who are not viewed with satisfaction by the government."
YAOUNDE (Reuters) - Authorities in Cameroon have arbitrarily arrested more than 1,000 people as part of their fight against Islamist militant group Boko Haram and dozens have died of disease or been tortured to death, Amnesty International said on Thursday.
Up to eight people are dying each month in Maroua Prison in the capital of Far North region and prisoners are kept in inhumane, overcrowded and unsanitary conditions, Amnesty said in a report.
"Cameroon is pursuing the right objective, but in arbitrarily arresting, torturing and subjecting people to enforced disappearances the authorities are using the wrong means," said Alioune Tine, regional director for the human rights group.
Amnesty called on the government to implement measures to prevent abuses including an end to arbitrary arrests and torture and said the government should ensure detainees have access to their families and to lawyers.
The government is yet to comment on the report, which was based on interviews starting last October with more than 200 people in the Far North region that borders Nigeria and Chad.
More than 15,000 people have been killed and 2 million displaced in Nigeria and neighbouring Chad, Niger and Cameroon during Boko Haram's seven-year campaign to carve out an Islamic caliphate in northeast Nigeria.
Since a regional offensive last year drove the insurgents from most strongholds, Boko Haram has waged a guerrilla-style campaign against civilians. In Cameroon, teenage girls have killed dozens in suicide bombings.
Boko Haram pledged its allegiance to Islamic State last year, although the practical extent of its links with the ultra-radical, Syria- and Iraq-based group is not known.
KIEV (Reuters) - A dangerous culture of impunity flourishes in Ukraine where  arbitrary killings by Ukrainian forces or separatist groups are rarely prosecuted, a United Nations human rights report said on Thursday.
Over 9,400 civilians, government soldiers and Russian-backed rebel fighters have been killed in Ukraine since a 2013-2014 pro-European uprising in Kiev sparked a separatist conflict in eastern regions of the country.
The UN report, the first of its kind since the start of the fighting, focuses on alleged summary executions and arbitrary killings in the conflict zone carried out while no armed hostilities were taking place in the immediate vicinity.
It highlights the danger posed by the lack of accountability for unlawful killing as fighting rumbles on in the war-torn east despite a ceasefire declared nearly 18 months ago.
"There has been no accountability for the vast majority of alleged summary executions and killings committed in the conflict zone," said the report by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
"Impunity for killings remains rampant, encouraging their perpetuation and undermining prospects for justice," it said.
It reported incidents of alleged arbitrary killings both by pro-Russian separatist groups and by Ukrainian troops, law enforcement officers and volunteer battalions in the conflict zone.
Some perpetrators have been brought to justice, OHCHR said, but investigations and prosecutions are often drawn out or stalled entirely.
"OHCHR has observed an apparent lack of motivation to investigate in some cases ... especially when it concerns acts allegedly committed by Ukrainian forces. Cover-up and political bias are not uncommon," it said.
In rebel-controlled territory, investigations appeared to be selective and did not guarantee fair trial, the report said.
In an annexe to the report it said was far from exhaustive, OHCHR listed 60 cases it has verified from January 2014 to May 2016. These included the alleged killing of surrendered soldiers or fighters, the torture and violent deaths of individuals in captivity and the alleged execution of 58 people.
"Relatives of victims are often the ones urging authorities to initiate an investigation. In some cases law enforcement officials only register the case ... and barely carry out any investigative actions on various pretexts," the report said.
HARARE (Reuters) - A Zimbabwean court on Wednesday dismissed charges against a religious leader accused of trying to overthrow the government through an internet campaign that inspired rare protests against President Robert Mugabe.
Pastor Evan Mawarire appeared in a packed Harare courtroom draped in the Zimbabwean flag after spending the night in police cells as officers searched his house, church and office.
Magistrate Vakayi Chikwekwe said prosecutors presented different charges from those read out to Mawarire when he was arrested.
"It's my finding that the National Prosecuting Authority cannot charge the accused for the first time in court without charges being read out to him," Chikwekwe told the court.
Mawarire's lawyer Harrison Nkomo said his client initially faced charges of inciting violence before prosecutors changed the charge to attempting to overthrow the government, which carries up to 20 years in jail in found guilty.
Hundreds of Mawarire's supporters gathered outside the court, waving the national flag and singing protest songs, as anti-riot police kept a watchful eye.
"We are here in solidarity with a man of the cloth who is standing against a system that has impoverished the citizens of this nation," Harare resident Pastor Ellard said.
Though Mawarire had called for further "stay at home" protests on Wednesday, queues built up as normal at bus and taxi ranks to ferry people to work, while most businesses were open.
Teachers reported for duty at most public schools, which are conducting mid-year examinations, while nurses and doctors were at work at state-run hospitals.
Mawarire last month posted a video online, that has since gone viral, venting his anger about deteriorating social and economic conditions in Zimbabwe and urging citizens to hold government to account.
"I am angered by the poverty and day to day struggles. The economy is not working and there are no jobs," Zimbabwean activist Maureen Kademaunga told Reuters.
The preacher's social media movement has rattled 92-year-old Mugabe's administration, leading to accusations by the state against Mawarire of inciting public violence.
Anger is rising in Zimbabwe over high unemployment, corruption in government and shortages of money, which has seen people spending hours in bank queues to withdraw their money.
Zimbabwe's government warned protesters on Tuesday they would face the "full wrath of the law" if they heeded Mawarire's call, after his #ThisFlag movement organised the biggest anti-government demonstrations in a decade last week.
After his arrest, Mawarire supporters released a pre-recorded video urging Zimbabweans to stage another stay-away protest on Wednesday.
Amnesty International said Mawarire's arrest was a calculated plan by Zimbabwean authorities to intimidate activists ahead of Wednesday's protests.
"Instead of suppressing dissenting voices, Zimbabwean authorities should be listening to protesters like Evan Mawarire," said Muleya Mwananyanda, Amnesty International's deputy director for southern Africa.
PESHAWAR, Pakistan (Reuters) - The alleged mastermind of the 2014 attack on a school in Pakistan in which more than 150 people died, most of them children, has been killed in an American drone strike in Afghanistan, the Pakistan military and sources in the Pakistani Taliban said.
General Asim Bajwa, director general of the Pakistani army's media division, reported the death of Umar Narai, also known as Khalifa Umar Mansoor or Khalid Khurasani, in a message on Twitter.
U.S. Defense Department spokesman Peter Cook confirmed that U.S. forces carried out an air strike in Afghanistan's eastern Nangarhar province on July 9, killing Umar Khalifa and four other militants.
Cook said Khalifa, a leader of the Tariq Gidar Group, was killed in a strike that targeted members of Islamic State-Khorasan Province. The State Department had put the Tariq Gidar Group, a faction linked to the Pakistani Taliban, on its list of "Specially Designated Global Terrorists" in May.
The Pakistani Taliban made no official comment. One senior member of the group said the movement had decided not to comment on the death until a successor had been chosen.
‎"It's a huge loss to the small but most effective Taliban faction of Khalifa Umar Mansoor," the commander said. There is no such prominent figure of his status to run his organisation."
The strike was the second in the space of two months against a senior insurgent leader close to the frontier between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In May, Mullah Mohammad Akhtar Mansour, leader of the Afghan Taliban, was killed by a drone on the Pakistani side of the border.
The Pakistani Taliban is waging war against the Pakistani state and is separate from the Afghan Taliban. It claimed responsibility for the attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar, in northwest Pakistan in December 2014, in which at least 132 children, nine staff and several attackers were killed.
Umar Mansoor claimed responsibility for planning the attack as well as a separate attack on Bacha Khan University in Charsadda on Jan. 20 this year, in which 22 people, most of them students and teachers, were killed.
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Brazil's lower house of Congress elected an ally of interim President Michel Temer as its new speaker late on Wednesday, marking a victory for a government racing to approve unpopular economic reforms.
Rodrigo Maia of the right-leaning Democrats party, known as DEM, won the second round ballot by a wide margin in a hotly contested election.
Maia, a trained economist who worked briefly in banking before turning to politics, signalled he would help Temer move ahead with reforms to pull the economy out of what could be its worst recession in a century.
"I will talk to Temer, who enjoys the support of my party. We are convinced that this government will overcome this crisis and the lower house will help in that task," Maia told reporters after the vote.
The election to replace former speaker Eduardo Cunha, who quit last week as he faces expulsion over ethics violations, had more than a dozen candidates from widely diverse parties.
Maia initially flirted with opposition parties, but was officially backed by other Temer partners such as the Brazilian Social Democracy Party, or PSDB, one of the country's largest. He won 285 votes versus 170 for his rival Rogerio Rosso.
Cunha, who is the target of several graft investigations involving state oil company Petrobras, was a powerful speaker who used his influence to push for the suspension of President Dilma Rousseff in May on charges of doctoring public accounts.
Rousseff was replaced by Temer, her vice president, pending an impeachment trial in the Senate in which senators are expected to vote for her permanent removal.
The new speaker will be crucial to the government's efforts to cap public spending and open up the economy.
"For Temer, this election is extremely important because the speaker sets the agenda and the pace of the lower house," said Humberto Dantas, a political scientist and partner with the E4 consultancy in Sao Paulo.
To the relief of Temer, the candidate from his own Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, Marcelo Castro, was defeated in vote and finished third.
The surprise candidacy of Castro, who was a minister under Rousseff and voted against her impeachment, had raised concerns in the government that if elected he could give the opposition more sway, a presidential aide said, requesting anonymity to speak freely.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. missile defence system to counter attacks from rogue states like North Korea has no proven capability to protect the United States and is not on a credible path to achieve that goal, a science advocacy group said on Thursday.
The ground-based midcourse missile defence system, which has deployed 30 interceptors in Alaska and California, has been tested under highly scripted conditions only nine times since being deployed in 2004, and failed to destroy its target two-thirds of the time, the Union of Concerned Scientists said in a report.
"After nearly 15 years of effort to build the GMD homeland missile defence system, it still has no demonstrated real-world capability to defend the United States," said Laura Grego, a UCS physicist who co-authored the report.
Deficiencies in the programme, which has cost $40 billion (£30.3 billion) so far and is being expanded to include 44 interceptors by 2017, are due largely to a Bush administration decision to exempt the system from normal oversight and accountability, to rush it into service by 2004, Grego said in an interview.
"Instead of getting something out to the field that worked well or worked adequately, in fact this has been a disaster. It's done the opposite," she said.
The Obama administration's efforts to improve oversight while keeping the system outside the normal development and procurement process have contributed to the problems, she said.
"The lack of accountability has had and will have real lasting effects, especially for a system ... that's strategically important. It should be held to the highest standards, the highest rigor," she added.
The Missile Defense Agency said in a statement the rapid deployment requirement in the law that created the system was "a driving factor" in the delivery of a ground-based interceptor with "reliability challenges."
The agency said the problems had led to changes in the interceptor's design and a programme to improve reliability, including use of more mature technologies. The MDA said it was seeking ways to reduce the risks of deploying equipment still under development.
The UCS report echoed criticisms the homeland missile defence system has faced from other quarters. A Pentagon assessment in 2015 found that flight testing of the system was still "insufficient to demonstrate that an operationally useful defence capability exists."
A February report by Congress's Government Accountability Office said the MDA was taking a "high-risk" approach by buying  interceptors still under development for operational use.
In a speech weighted with America’s complicated racial history, Democrat Hillary Clinton laced into Republican presidential rival Donald Trump on Wednesday, accusing him of fuelling divisions among Americans over race and religion.
"His campaign is as divisive as any we have seen in our lifetimes," Clinton said at a campaign appearance at the Illinois state house in Springfield. "It is built on stoking mistrust and pitting American against American. It's there in everything he says and everything he promises to do as president."
Clinton ticked off Trump’s proposals to ban Muslims from entering the country, create a database of Muslims already in the country and step up deportations by creating a special deportation force as policies intended to drive Americans apart. She lambasted Trump’s decision to re-tweet an image from a neo-Nazi and his statements about women.
“We need a president who can help pull us together, not split us apart,” Clinton said.
The two presumptive nominees are heading into July nominating conventions where they are to formally become the Democratic and Republican candidates who will square off in the Nov. 8 presidential election.
Clinton's speech comes a week after a sniper shot and killed five Dallas police officers during a protest of police killings of black men in Louisiana and Minnesota. She addressed these incidents and other race-related deaths in Springfield.
Clinton's speech on Wednesday carried the echo of history. The state house in the Illinois capital of Springfield was the site where President Abraham Lincoln delivered an anti-slavery speech during his campaign for the U.S. Senate in 1858, warning that “a house divided against itself cannot stand.” As the 16th president of the United States, he went on to guide the country through most of the Civil War.
Clinton acknowledged that while “the challenges we face today do not approach those of Lincoln’s time,” the country’s “long struggle with race is far from finished.”
The Illinois state house is also where President Barack Obama, the first African-American to hold the highest office in America, launched his first campaign for president in 2007.
Trump spent months "trying to discredit the citizenship and legitimacy of our first black president," Clinton said.
Trump was loudly fixated on the issue of Obama's birthplace during the 2012 presidential campaign and had also suggested that Obama was a Muslim, despite clear evidence that the president was born in Hawaii and is a Christian.
Clinton acknowledged that she has made some missteps on race. She faced early criticism from the Black Lives Matter movement for past statements, such as one in the 1990s, when she was first lady, calling violent minority youth “super predators.” She told the Washington Post earlier this year that she “shouldn’t have used those words.”
"As someone in the middle of a hotly fought political campaign I cannot stand here and claim that my words and actions haven't sometimes fuelled the partisanship that often stands in the way of progress, so I recognise I have to do better, too," she added.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - CIA director John Brennan said on Wednesday recent attacks in Saudi Arabia bore the hallmarks of Islamic State, and that the militant group was a very serious threat to the kingdom.
Suicide bombers struck three cities across Saudi Arabia earlier this month, killing at least four security officers in an apparently coordinated campaign of attacks on the penultimate day of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
"Those attacks bear the hallmarks of ISIL," Brennan said at an event hosted by the Brookings Institution think tank, using an acronym for Islamic State.
The explosions struck in Jeddah, Qatif and a security headquarters in the holy city of Medina, an attack Brennan described as "unprecedented".
The attacks were not claimed by any group although the Saudi government believes Islamic State is responsible after detaining 19 suspects linked to the five attackers.
Brennan said that while al Qaeda still posed a threat to Saudi Arabia, which had launched a fierce crackdown on the militant group in the early 2000s, Islamic State posed a greater danger to the kingdom.
Islamic State militants have carried out similar bombings in the U.S.-allied, Sunni Muslim-ruled kingdom in the past year, targeting minority Shi'ites and Saudi security forces.
KLONG SAI PATTANA, Thailand (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Along a mud road deep inside oil palm and rubber plantations in the southern Thai province of Surat Thani, handwritten signs tag grim evidence of a struggle for land that began two decades ago, and then turned violent and deadly.
One sign points to the area illegally used by a palm oil company.
In a grove of banana trees, a sign for "bunker" indicates a low, palm-leaf camouflaged mud hut built six years ago for women and children to sleep in while men patrolled forests ringing with gunfire.
Further on is a ruined, one-room shack with bamboo floors and rusted roofing, marked as the home of Somporn Pattaphum, born 1957, died 2010. Somporn was the first of four people from Klong Sai Pattana who were killed by unidentified gunmen.
"He was sitting at this house next door when he was shot," said Khuan Panmuang, a fellow land rights defender from a nearby village. "They keep his home in case his children want to join them here."
These landmarks are just some of the evidence collected by villagers since Thailand's 1997 constitution granted the right to access official information - for the first time allowing people to demand documentation for murky land deals across the country.
With this constitutional right - and the subsequent Official Information Act of 1997 - land rights campaigners wielded a key weapon to investigate government property that had long been in the grip of investors, in the hope that it would be redistributed to farmers as part of Thai land reforms.
"As soon as we had the right to access this information, we were able look at the information on land owned by the government and see, was it legally held or not? Who was holding it?" said Suraphon Songruk, of the Southern Peasants Federation of Thailand (SPFT).
They uncovered expired and illegal concessions on land owned by the government's Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO), stockpiled reams of documents, and in the case of Klong Sai Pattana, helped the ALRO to win a court case to reclaim the land from the trespassing palm oil company.
Today, with Thai politics in turmoil after a decade of troubled elections, protests, two coups and now military rule, land rights campaigners fear the right to access information hangs in the balance.
Thailand is set to hold a referendum for a new constitution in August. Section 41 of the draft constitution retains the right to access information, and the government says the new charter will not affect the existing law.
"They still have this right, according to the law of (1997)," Jirachai Moontongroy, deputy permanent secretary of the prime minister's office, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, after a walking tour of the Klong Sai Pattana on July 1.
"It is clearly defined what information the people can ask for, and what information civil servants must provide."
Klong Sai Pattana is one of six villages in the south where the SPFT is pushing for a community land title, which legally permits collective management and use of state-owned land for residents' livelihoods.
As land rights activists who have occupied the 160-hectare plot, many villagers are well-versed in their rights and the history of their struggle.
They say the movement to reclaim expired concessions and encroached areas from companies - as in Klong Sai Pattana - began in 2002 with the construction of a dam in Surat Thani.
Several villagers were going to be displaced by the dam, so the government looked for areas to relocate them. Provincial officials mentioned expired concessions on state-owned property as a possibility, residents of Klong Sai Pattana said.
However, when villagers asked for documents as evidence to reclaim these lands for redistribution, officials withheld the information.
"When we wanted to take the land from the investors, then the information was blocked again, so we protested," Teeranet Chaisuwan, a resident, said as he pored over copies of the documents collected by the community over the years.
In 2003, the government agreed to investigate the palm oil plantations. Villagers say they helped to compile the necessary legal evidence. In 2014, a court ruled that the ALRO could evict the palm oil company in Klong Sai Pattana.
The land rights campaigners in Klong Sai Pattana began moving into the area in 2008, occupying the land - with the government's consent - and pressuring the investors to leave.
Two years later, the first of the land rights activists – Somporn - was killed. Over the years, three more people were fatally shot, while another resident was shot and wounded in April. Residents blame the shootings on mafia linked to the plantations, but no one has been convicted or jailed.
    Insisting that they sacrificed their lives to help the government win the court case against the palm oil company, the residents believe they deserve this ALRO land to be redistributed to them.
However, the ALRO says these villagers are also illegal occupants and must leave because all Thais have an equal right to vie for the 160-hectare plot.
The ruling military junta last week issued an order allowing the ALRO to reclaim land that has been occupied illegally.
Meanwhile, even though Klong Sai Pattana residents say they helped to oust the palm oil company, they are accused of being the company's dependents - who must also be evicted. A court is set to rule on Friday on whether this is the case.
Suraphon, of the SPFT, says that even if the land is not given to those who live there and have fought for it, the fact that the Thai people will get the land is a victory.
"Future generations will benefit from the SPFT's efforts. At least the government has to take back land from the investors and give it to poor people. That is one step toward development - at least we changed the policy, even if we don't get the land," he said.
With Thailand currently under military rule, Suraphon's concern now is a clampdown on information.
"They can write in the fine print... they can hide different ways to make it hard for people to access information," he said.
"Some information is easily accessible, but for some you have to ask for permission from officials. Sometimes they say the boss is not in today, so you have to come back tomorrow - then we go home empty-handed, and waste another day."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - CIA Director John Brennan said on Wednesday he would resign if the next president ordered his agency to resume waterboarding suspected militants, an apparent reference to comments by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump embracing the banned interrogation method.
"I can say that as long as I'm director of CIA, irrespective of what the president says, I'm not going to be the director of CIA that gives that order. They'll have to find another director," said Brennan, who did not mention Trump by name.
Brennan, who has been director since 2013, tacked his comment to the end of his response to a question about drone strike policy after speaking at the Brookings Institution, a Washington policy institute.Brennan said previously he would refuse to resume the practice, which simulates drowning and was used by the CIA on three suspected militants detained in secret foreign prisons during President George W. Bush's administration.
But his pledge to resign if ordered to revive waterboarding was his most emphatic affirmation of his position to date.
Trump, set to be formally nominated next week as the Republican nominee for the Nov. 8 election, has said he would reauthorize waterboarding immediately if elected, contending that "torture works."
At an April 20 rally in Indianapolis, he recalled being asked about waterboarding during a debate the previous week.
“They asked me: 'What do you think about waterboarding, Mr. Trump?’ I said I love it. I love it, I think it’s great. And I said the only thing is, we should make it much tougher than waterboarding," he said.
Democratic President Barack Obama signed an executive order after taking office in January 2009 that banned waterboarding and other "enhanced interrogation techniques," or EITs. Such executive orders can be rescinded by a president's successors.
Obama, other top U.S. officials, many lawmakers and human rights groups have denounced waterboarding as torture.
Some former Bush administration and CIA officials have defended waterboarding and other EITs, denying they are torture and saying they elicited valuable intelligence.
Brennan told his confirmation hearing in 2013 he had not tried to stop harsh interrogation techniques such as waterboarding when he was at the spy agency earlier in his career, but had objected to them privately.
A Senate Intelligence Committee study, issued in 2014, concluded that EITs failed to elicit any significant intelligence.
Brennan said on Wednesday it was not possible to "establish cause and effect" between the use of EITs and the acquisition of reliable information.
AMMAN (Reuters) - Jets believed to be Russian on Tuesday struck a refugee camp along Jordan's north-eastern border with Syria, killing at least 12 people and injuring scores in the first such Russian strike near the Jordanian border, rebels said.
    Several jets flying at high altitudes struck at noon a makeshift camp where a few hundred, mostly women and children, are stranded in a no-man's-land on the Syrian side of the border, they said.
The Russian Defence Ministry was not immediately available for comment.
    Said Seif al Qalamoni, a rebel spokesman in a brigade that belongs to the Western-backed Free Syrian Army (FSA), said the raids were close to the Hadalat refugee camp, one of two large camps in the area.
A senior Western diplomat confirmed the incident and said initial information was that several Russian jets conducted the raids.
If confirmed, these would be the closest aerial strikes by Moscow along the Jordanian border since the start of the Kremlin's  major aerial bombing campaign last September in support of Syrian President Bashar al Assad against insurgents battling to topple his rule.
Staunch U.S. ally Jordan has stepped up coordination with Moscow to ensure its military campaign in southern Syria does not target moderate rebel groups aligned on the so-called Southern Front that a coalition of Western and Arab countries support.
Their backing is part of a strategy of ensuring opposition-held southern Syria does not fall into the hands of radical jihadist groups such as al Qaeda's Nusra and Islamic State.
At least 40 people, mostly women and children, were injured in the strike. Jordanian army troops on the border helped rush the injured to hospitals inside the country, a Jordanian source said.
Among the casualties were fighters from Asoud al Sharqiya, a  rebel group that is fighting Islamic State militants and part of a group of moderate rebels financed and equipped by a Western-backed military operations room based in Amman, another rebel source said. The camp mostly housed these fighters' families.
The desolate strip, close to where the borders of Iraq, Syria and Jordan meet, has two major camps with a population of at least 60,000 people who have been stranded there since fleeing central and eastern Syria. Jordanian authorities bar their entry into the country on security grounds.
    The kingdom declared its border area a closed military zone after a suicide bomber, believed to be an Islamic State militant, last month drove from the Syrian side near one of the two camps and rammed the vehicle into a Jordanian military base, killing seven border guards. [L8N19D0PL]
    The refugees have been running out of food since the Jordanian army sealed the area, international relief workers and refugees said last month.[L8N19J42X]
    U.S.-backed rebels based in the Syrian border town of al-Tanf, further north-east, periodically clash with Islamic State militants who have a presence in the vast sparsely populated south-eastern Syria desert.
    The rebel base in al-Tanf was hit twice last month by Russian air strikes, even after the U.S. military used emergency channels to ask Moscow to stop after the first strike, U.S. officials said.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission proposed more unified EU asylum rules on Wednesday, in a bid to stop people waiting for refugee status moving around the bloc and disrupting its passport-free zone.
In an unprecedented wave of migration last year, 1.3 million people reached the EU and most ignored legal restrictions, trekking from the Mediterranean coast to apply for asylum in wealthy Germany, prompting some EU countries to suspend the Schengen Area system that allows free passage between most EU states.
"The changes will create a genuine common asylum procedure," said EU Migration Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos. "At the same time, we set clear obligations and duties for asylum seekers to prevent secondary movements and abuse of procedures."
The United Nations refugee agency UNHCR said it had concerns about the new rules and said the new system must not lower standards of protection and asylum.
The proposal would standardise refugee reception facilities across the bloc and unify the level of state support they can get, setting common rules on residence permits, travel papers, access to jobs, schools, social welfare and healthcare.
It would grant prospective refugees swifter rights to work, but also put more obligations on them, meaning that if they do not cooperate with the authorities or head to an EU state of their choice rather than staying put, their asylum application could be jeopardised.
The five-year waiting period after which refugees are eligible for long-term residence would be restarted if they move from their designated country, the Commission said.
UNHCR spokesman William Spindler said people should be dissuaded from such movements, not punished.
The proposal also spells out more cases in which asylum seekers could be detained, something Jean Lambert, a British Green Party member of the European Parliament, said showed the EU was taking the wrong attitude to people seeking sanctuary.
"The EU has justifiably come under fire for its response to the refugee crisis but today's proposals ... will do nothing to allay this," she said, accusing the Commission of seeking to curb the rights of asylum seekers and "an obsession with punitive measures".
"People are fleeing because their lives are threatened and homes being destroyed, not because the EU's asylum system is gold plated - it's not!"
The plan, which will be reviewed by EU governments and the European Parliament, comes after Brussels proposed in May a system for distributing asylum seekers, an idea opposed by eastern EU states which refuse to accept refugees.
Only 3,056 people have so far been relocated under the scheme that was meant for 160,000 people, the Commission said. Hungary and Slovakia have challenged the system in the courts.
UNHCR wants the EU to drop the first country of arrival principle and distribute asylum seekers among EU member states.
Asked whether Brussels would punish countries, including Poland and the Czech Republic, for not complying, Avramopoulos said: "We're not here to punish, we are here to persuade. But if this persuasion doesn't succeed, then yes, we're thinking of doing that. But we're not there yet."
Last year's record arrivals triggered bitter political disputes in the EU, where the wealthier states which ended up hosting most of the people accused the newer members in the east of showing no solidarity.
A deal with Turkey in March has since cut the arrivals to Greece to a trickle, but has prompted concerns about human rights.
Unlike the Turkey route, however, which mainly brought Syrians and other people with a strong cases for asylum into Europe, the bloc is now worried over a rise in arrivals from Africa through Libya. Most people on that route do not qualify for asylum and, under the EU rules, should be sent back.
The Commission wants to draw up lists of "safe countries" outside the bloc, which would help EU states return people, after Athens' refusal to recognise Turkey as such a place hindered deportations from the Greek islands back to Turkey.
So-called safe countries should only be an option where "precise, impartial, and up-to-date information is available on the safety of a particular country", UNHCR's Spindler said.
"An applicant must have an effective opportunity to rebut the presumption of safety in light of their individual circumstances, and the safe country concepts should not apply to vulnerable applicants."
To discourage chaotic flows by facilitating legal migration, the Commission also proposed an EU-wide system for resettlement directly from refugee camps. It said Brussels would pay 10,000 euros for each person EU states bring in.
But Slovakia, the current holder of the EU's rotating presidency, was sceptical on chances for unified asylum system.
"We can only talk about real burden-sharing when the quality of life is the same in all EU states," said Bernard Priecel, head of Slovakia's migration service. "Otherwise we will always have secondary movements. How can you force them to stay?"
DALLAS (Reuters) - Thousands of police officers joined by ordinary citizens attended funerals on Wednesday for three of the policemen shot dead in a racially motivated ambush attack last week that intensified America's long-running debate on race and justice.
At the Dallas megachurch called The Potter's House, officers by the thousands crowded into the funeral for Dallas Area Rapid Transit officer Brent Thompson, who had married a fellow officer just two weeks before last Thursday's attack.
"I know many of you have dealt with these things quite often," pastor Rick Lamb of Northside Baptist Church told the crowd. "Today is about Brent and trying to bring some closure to this family as they finish the job that they didn't want to start, but had to start last week."
Funerals were also taking place on Wednesday for Sergeant Michael Smith, 55, and Officer Lorne Ahrens, 48, of the Dallas Police Department.
The funerals came a day after President Barack Obama praised the slain officers' heroism, condemned the attack as an "act not just of demented violence but of racial hatred" and made an impassioned plea for national unity.
The five officers were killed by a former U.S. Army Reserve soldier who told police that he was angry about police killings of two black men in Louisiana and Minnesota earlier that week and wanted to "kill white people," especially police.
Funerals for the other two slain officers, Michael Krol, 40, and Patrick Zamarripa, 32, are expected later in the week.
The shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota were the latest in a series of high-profile police killings of black men in various U.S. cities that have brought intense scrutiny of police use of force, particularly against black suspects.
The police slain in Dallas last week were patrolling a demonstration decrying the killings by police of Alton Sterling, 37, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Philando Castile, 32, outside St. Paul, Minnesota. Sterling was killed after officers responded to a call that he had threatened someone with a gun. Castile was killed during a traffic stop.
In Baton Rouge, Sterling's 15-year-old son, Cameron Sterling, urged people to refrain from violence as they demand reforms in the U.S. criminal justice system.
"I feel that people in general, no matter what the race is, should come together as one united family," Cameron Sterling told reporters in the parking lot of the Triple S Food Mart, where his father was killed. "I want everyone to protest the right way. Protest in peace. ... No violence, whatsoever."
Justin Bamberg, a lawyer for Sterling's son, said he hoped the officer who shot Sterling would be criminally charged following the federal investigation into the incident.
"We want justice. We want an indictment," Bamberg said.
A lawyer for the officer has denied race was a factor in Sterling's shooting.
Protests against police violence continued on Wednesday. In Minneapolis, a mixed-race group of several dozen protesters briefly closed the southbound lanes of a major highway, linking arms and chanting "Black Lives Matter."
ROME (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The World Food Programme (WFP) is preparing to make its first aid delivery in weeks to thousands of Syrian refugees stranded on Jordan's northeastern border with Syria, the head of the U.N. agency said on Wednesday.
At least 60,000 people, mostly women and children, have been stuck for months in makeshift camps in a no-man's land on the Syrian side of the border, after fleeing central and eastern Syria.
International relief workers and refugees said last month they were running out of food after a militant suicide attack prompted the army to shut the area, allowing only water trucks to enter.
The WFP said the Jordanian government agreed it could make a one-off aid delivery, possibly next week.
"There are black markets selling everything but food is between five and 10 times higher than what you would pay in other parts of the country," Ertharin Cousin, WFP executive director, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
She said many Syrians had used up all their savings to reach the sparsely populated, desert area in hope of crossing the border and lacked money to buy overpriced food. Some were falling ill, she said.
"We have had reports of severe dysentery and other illnesses as a result of the challenges with water," she said.
Cousin said the WFP did not have access to the camps but relied on village elders to deliver aid, forcing the agency to limit distribution out of fear that food could fall into the hands of smugglers.
She said the agency was planning to use drones for the first time to monitor the distribution of aid.
"They (Jordanian government) won't allow us to create structures that are necessary for us to screen people for the distribution," Cousin said.
"We lack a trusted relationship with the elders, we need to test whether it's going to work and we have to monitor with these drones before we give them more food."
She said the planned distribution would include food, hygiene items, blankets and other essentials.
On Tuesday, planes believed to be Russian struck one of the camps along Jordan's northeastern border, killing at least 12 people and injuring dozens more.
If confirmed, this would be the closest aerial strike by Moscow along the Jordanian border since the start of the Kremlin's aerial bombing campaign in September in support of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad against rebel forces.
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's PDVSA is investigating U.S. allegations of a $1 billion (1 billion pounds) bribery conspiracy involving the state oil company and has found there was fraud in procurement processes, according to a report of its 2015 results.
PDVSA, the financial motor of President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government, had previously blasted the Houston court case against two Venezuelan businessmen as part of a smear campaign by opponents trying to link it to corruption.
But PDVSA's audited financial statement, published this week, said an internal probe "confirmed the company was a victim of fraud in its process of international procurement."
The two businessmen, Abraham Shiera and Roberto Rincon, have pleaded guilty after being arrested last year and charged for conspiring to pay bribes for energy contracts.
The indictment said five PDVSA officials received hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes made principally in the form of wire transfers but also through mortgage payments, airline tickets and, in one case, whiskey.
From 2009 to 2014, more than $1 billion was traced to the conspiracy, according to court documents. As well as Shiera and Rincon, four other individuals have also pleaded guilty in the Houston case, including three former PDVSA officials.
PDVSA's report said that because the investigation was continuing "up to now there is no material impact on consolidated financial results."
"PDVSA does not tolerate acts of corruption and will continue investigating and acting with the aim of determining responsibilities," it said.
In an unusual note on the financial statement, PDVSA's auditor, the local representative of KPMG, said the probe will drag on and might have a possible impact on "the results of operations and the consolidated financial situation."
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Moscow offered to fly its jets over the Baltic region with their transponders engaged, an apparent concession to NATO powers who accuse Russia's air force of endangering aviation by turning off the devices that allow them to be detected by ground radar.
Moscow's envoy to NATO told alliance ambassadors that Russian pilots could turn on the cockpit transmitters, known as transponders, if alliance planes did the same.
"We are ready to fly with transponders...along certain flight trajectories," Russia's ambassador Alexander Grushko said after the NATO-Russia Council, a forum bringing together Russia and the 28 NATO ambassadors.
"The aircraft of many countries do fly in the region with their transponders off," Grushko said.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg welcomed the proposal but said that all jets under NATO command already flew with their transponders on. "Transponders are important, but they are only one element of a broader picture related to air safety. The basic thing is safe behavior, to fly in a safe and professional way," Stoltenberg said.
The proposal comes after two years of several near misses between Western planes, both civilian and military, and Russian jets in the skies above the Baltics that NATO has patrolled since Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014.
It also comes after several gestures by Russian President Vladimir Putin that seem to aim at defusing East-West tensions despite NATO's summit last weekend in Warsaw. There, the alliance agreed to deploy a multinational force to the Baltics and Poland and to take over a U.S.-built missile shield that Russia sees as hostile.
Putin agreed to Wednesday's meeting of the NATO-Russia Council, only the second since mid-2014, while also recently allowing a U.N. resolution authorizing the EU to intercept arms shipments to Libya in the Mediterranean. Putin has talked by telephone U.S. President Barack Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Holland in recent days.
The transponders plan, which was raised by Putin during a visit to Finland this month, was put to NATO ambassadors both by Russia's envoy and generals at the meeting at NATO headquarters. Diplomats said there was no detailed discussion.
Diplomats told Reuters the Russian proposal appeared to be directed at U.S. military reconnaissance flights that regularly fly through the region, and which Russia has intercepted in what Washington says is an unsafe manner.
In one instance in April, Russia sent a fighter plane to intercept a U.S. aircraft approaching its border over the Baltic Sea, accusing the plane of turning off its transponders.
It was not immediately clear if U.S. reconnaissance jets have flown with their transponders off in the region.
In a sign of the continued strains between Russia and the West, Grushko reiterated Moscow's position that NATO's biggest modernization since the end of the Cold War is putting Europe's security at risk. NATO denies that, saying its military build-up is a proportionate response to Russia's actions in Ukraine.
"The message was very clear. There is no reason for NATO to do what it is doing ... The direction in which NATO is moving in military terms is very worrisome," Grushko said. "It takes us back to the Cold War," he said.
BARCELONA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A new international framework for managing natural assets will help businesses monitor their use of environmental resources, and work out the risks and opportunities this holds for their operations, its creators said on Wednesday.
The Natural Capital Protocol - launched in London by more than 160 businesses and accounting, conservation, research and policy groups - provides guidance for companies to measure their dependence and impact on water, timber, floodplains and other natural assets.
"Nature is free, in effect, and so it has been over-exploited and is being depleted, and that is now having... economic and social and human costs," said Karen Ellis, chief economics adviser at the UK arm of WWF, a partner of the Natural Capital Coalition, which developed the protocol.
"To address that problem, we need to start to take this into account much more systematically in decision-making," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Natural capital is a term for the planet's stock of resources - such as plants, animals, air, water, soils and minerals - that bring a flow of benefits to people.
Those benefits include clean air, food, water, energy, shelter, medicine and raw materials used to make products.
The protocol draws on existing guides, methods and techniques to identify, measure and value the natural capital on which a business relies.
That could help a company reduce the risk of interruptions to its supply chain from extreme weather or floods, use resources more efficiently, anticipate future legislation, cut financing costs and boost profit margins, the coalition said.
It could also enable companies to understand how action that changes the environment, such as clearing forests or improving water quality, could affect local communities.
Overall, the protocol aims to transform how businesses evaluate their operations and take decisions, so they can reduce pollution, protect biodiversity, and limit the impacts of climate change, the coalition said.
It could also open up new revenue streams, such as waste management or payments for protecting ecosystems, Ellis said.
To date, financial accounting practices have largely overlooked the impacts and risks to business related to natural assets.
That puts corporate profits under threat from natural disasters and changes in policy, including regulation or taxes on use of those assets.
A 2013 report commissioned by the coalition noted that water shortages, for example, would have a catastrophic effect on 40 percent of Fortune 100 companies.
But the protocol - which has been piloted by more than 50 top businesses including Dow Chemical Company, Shell, Coca-Cola Company and Nestle - aims to help companies avoid such losses.
The coalition's website cites a denim processor that escaped financial harm from California's recent drought by adopting a waterless ozone machine, reducing its water use and bills by half, and saving $1,300 per month.
Michael Izza, CEO of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, said his profession had a major role to play in preserving the capital stock of nature. "Without nature there is nothing," he said.
"Without clear information on their impacts and dependencies on nature, it's very difficult for businesses to take real action. The Natural Capital Protocol will provide this information, and accelerate the shift towards a more sustainable future,” he added in a statement.
PARIS (Reuters) - A Brazilian Islamist militant was plotting an attack against the French delegation at the summer Olympic games in Rio de Janeiro, the head of a French intelligence agency has said.
General Christophe Gomart, who runs the military intelligence directorate (DRM), made the comment in May during a  parliamentary commission hearing into Islamist militant attacks in France in 2015. The transcript has just been made public.
Gomart told lawmakers that his service had been told by a "partner agency" about the plot.
He did not give any further details.
ROME (Reuters) - As rescuers dig through the wreckage of one of the worst rail crashes in Italy's history, the disaster has highlighted the country's struggle to harness European Union funds meant to improve its creaking infrastructure.
Two passenger trains ploughed head-on into each other on Tuesday on a single track in the southeastern Puglia region, killing 23 people and injuring dozens.
The sole line between the towns of Corato and Andria has no high-tech signalling system, meaning station managers have to call each other to warn that a train is en route, just as they have done for half a century.
Investigators are looking into whether human error was to blame, but the tragedy could have been avoided if long-standing plans to build a second line had been followed through.
The EU set aside 180 million euros ($200 million) in 2009 to upgrade the entire 77-km (50-mile) line but the project has been bogged down by Italy's twin scourges of bureaucracy and inefficiency.
Massimo Nitti, the director general of private company Ferrotramviaria that runs the rail service, dismissed suggestions that his firm was to blame for the foot dragging, telling Norba TV that red tape had tied up the project.
"We Italians know what our problem is. Obtaining permits here takes 60-80 percent longer than anywhere else in Europe, not to mention tenders that are contracted out and that get stuck for a few years waiting for (court) rulings," he said.
The EU has agreed that the money originally set aside for the track modernisation should be made available until 2020, well beyond the original 2014 deadline.
It is not the first time Italy has had to ask for funding to be held open for much longer than expected. Between 2007 and 2013, of the 27 countries that were then in the European Union, only Romania proved less efficient in utilising EU funds, according to European Commission data.
Economists say Italy's thicket of rules and regulations is one of the reasons why the economy has proved such a serial underperformer over the past two decades.
On Wednesday, Transport Minister Graziano Delrio, from Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's ruling Democratic Party (PD), told a parliamentary hearing that the government would now invest 1.8 billion euros in local public transport.
He was promptly harangued by Giuseppe D'Ambrosio, who comes from Puglia and is a member of the PD's main political opponent, the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement (M5S).
"Now there is a tragedy, as usual in Italy, the works start, now we speed things up," D'Ambrosio said.
He said he had asked regional authorities for an update on the track upgrade last year and been told: "We've given everyone the go-ahead. We don't know why the local administration is completely blocked and the work isn't going ahead."
Central government bought up nearby farmland needed to build a second track and Ferrotramviaria made the first invitation to tender in 2012. But still nothing moved.
A regional government ruling in July 2014 said the deadlock had been caused by delays obtaining technical opinions from the local city administrations. D'Ambrosio said central government had not been sufficiently supportive.
In 2014 the European Commission set up a task force to try to improve implementation of its funding programmes in eight EU states with a poor track record. All except Italy were in the relatively poor, formerly communist eastern Europe.
Roberto Perotti, an economics professor and former government adviser, says that Italy's use of EU funds is such a "disaster" it should give up its right to the money and use the cash that it has to provide to co-finance such schemes on cutting taxes.
"A lot of the projects financed with EU money are useless or even damaging," said Perotti. "We would be better off not taking it and asking for a corresponding discount on what we pay into the EU."
($1 = 0.9003 euros)
LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The true story of a teenager from a Ugandan slum who transformed her life from corn seller to international chess player is to make its European premiere at the London Film Festival in October.
The Disney movie, "Queen of Katwe", is based on the life of Phiona Mutesi who turned up at a sports outreach programme in Katwe in Kampala for a cup of porridge aged about nine in around 2005 and was drawn into a world of knights and checkmates.
Now Uganda's No. 3 female chess player according to the World Chess Federation, Mutesi is hailed an inspiration to many girls for managing to escape the life of poverty she was leading on the streets with her mother after her father died of AIDS.
Uganda is one of the poorest countries in the world with 2014 government figures showing nearly 20 percent of the 38 million population lives in poverty. UNICEF data shows 24 percent of Ugandan children under five live in extreme poverty.
The movie, to be shown on Oct. 9 after opening in the United State in September, stars newcomer Madina Nalwanga as Mutesi, Oscar-winning actress Lupita Nyong'o as her mother, and David Oyelowo as her chess teacher, a soccer player turned missionary.
Oyelowo, who played Martin Luther King Jr in "Selma", praised the film for illustrating a good side of the impoverished east African country.
"Africa is teeming with amazing people who in spite of their, at times, difficult lives, manage to remain full of joy and hope," Oyelowo said in a statement.
"This is a story where the impossible is made possible through family, mentorship, encouragement, hard work, and faith, all things we can aspire to."
The film is based on a 2012 book about Mutesi who used the money she received from film rights to buy land for her family and to continue her studies, aiming to become a paediatrician, according to online chess community chessgames.com.
Mutesi, who spoke at the Women of the World Summit in New York in 2013 about the obstacles she had overcome, held the first ever all-girls chess clinic in Uganda with more than 400 girls showing up to the clinic.
But the girls weren't only taught chess but also learnt about delaying marriage and children until after they finished school and started their careers, according to her website.
Uganda has one of the world's highest rates of pre-teen and teenage pregnancies with one in every four girls aged between 15 and 19 getting pregnant, according to the Bureau of Statistics, and nearly half of girls married before 18.
The BFI London Film Festival, which celebrates its 60th anniversary this year, is Britain's largest film festival that showcases new British and international films.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - A two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is more remote than ever, with the risk of generations of violence and radicalism unless leaders act, the United Nations' most senior official in the region said on Wednesday.
In his first public comments since the publication on July 1 of a report by the Quartet of Middle East mediators, the U.N.'s special coordinator for the region, Nickolay Mladenov, said the situation was approaching a point of no return.
"(The two-state solution) is perhaps the furthest away it's ever been, and in fact it is really worse than that -- it is slipping away as we speak," he told Reuters in an interview, citing Israeli settlement building and Palestinian violence and incitement as among the most troubling obstacles.
"It's time for the international community and the leadership on both sides to wake up."
"The only alternative (to a two-state solution) that I see is perpetual violence here in Israel and Palestine and entangling this conflict into the broader problems of the region," he said, adding it would be akin to "writing a blank cheque to violence and radicalism" for generations to come.
Since October, Palestinian street attacks have killed at least 33 Israelis and two visiting Americans. Israel has killed at least 202 Palestinians, 137 of whom it said were assailants. Others were killed during clashes and protests.
In the occupied West Bank on Wednesday, Israeli forces shot dead a Palestinian who the military said drove a car at high speed at troops during a raid on a weapons-making workshop.
Some members of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's right-wing government openly dismiss the idea of a Palestinian state, suggesting Israel should annex what is known as Area C of the West Bank, which makes up over 60 percent of the territory and is where nearly all Israel's settlements are located.
Some others, including Israel's president, talk broadly of a one-state solution, with Israelis and Palestinians living side-by-side, with equal rights, in a single country, although it is not clear how Israel would be able to remain both Jewish and democratic in such a set-up.
Mladenov, a former Bulgarian foreign minister who was previously head of the U.N. mission in Iraq, said such ideas were a distraction that would harm Israelis and Palestinians.
With much of the Middle East in turmoil, the international community finds itself pulled in multiple directions and Mladenov acknowledged there was a degree of fatigue over the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which has consumed diplomats' attention and energy for nearly 70 years.
But Mladenov said it was critical to tackle the Israeli-Palestinian issue so as to avoid a further deterioration in security across the wider region.
"You cannot disengage from it because it will continue to deteriorate and it will obviously become entangled with the rest of the region at some point in the future, which will be extremely dangerous for everybody," he said.
Beyond an end to violence, settlement-building and land seizures, the first objective should be a return to direct negotiations, he said.
But the prospects are dim, with the last peace talks held in 2014. The Egyptians, the French and the Quartet - made up of the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia -- are working to bring them the sides together but so far without success.
"At this stage to say they will come back to negotiate tomorrow would be close to day-dreaming... The collapse of trust has been really dramatic," said Mladenov.
PARIS (Reuters) - Iran is assessing whether to apply for associate membership of the ITER multi-national nuclear fusion project, its director said on Wednesday, just a year after Tehran struck a deal with six world powers to curb its own atomic programme.
The International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project, which was launched 10 years ago by Europe, United States, China, India, Japan, Russia and South Korea, aims to build the world's largest experimental reactor, or tokamak.
It would generate energy through nuclear fusion, rather than the fission process currently used in nuclear power stations around the world. Fusion could prove cleaner, safer and more efficient.
The head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, Ali Akbar Salehi, visited ITER's headquarters in southern France this month and Iranian media quoted officials as saying that there was a "general agreement" for cooperation on ITER.
But in an interview with Reuters, ITER Director General Bernard Bigot said the purpose of the visit had been just to understand the project.
"After that they told us they had a long-standing interest in fusion and they would like to consider how to join the ITER project, but clearly not as a full member," he said.
Full members provide experienced engineers and scientists and substantial financial contributions.
"They felt that full membership is not best for them, but consider association in some specific areas or fields where they can contribute. Now it's up to them to make up their mind," Bigot said.
Any application would have to be approved unanimously by the seven full members and the process would take at least six months.
Iran is already studying the development of nuclear fusion and has smaller laboratory tokamak machines.
However, ITER would give it access to new technologies and help bring it into the international civil nuclear energy fold.
Tehran agreed a deal last July with six world powers - Britain, China, Germany, France, Russia and the United States - to curb its nuclear programme, after Western suspicions that its aims were military.
In one of the deal's annexes the powers, which are all ITER members, said Tehran should be encouraged to cooperate with the project. "The nuclear deal opened the door," Bigot said.
Unlike fission reactors, which produce energy by splitting the nuclei of atoms, ITER would generate power by combining them. It remains unclear whether the technology will work and become commercially viable.
Bigot, the former head of French nuclear agency CEA, said the reactor under construction in Cadarache should see the first test of its super-heated plasma by 2025.
He added that after a management and structural review last year the project was now more credible and on track to meet its deadlines.
The project was pushed back five years earlier this year, with the new delay expected to add 4 billion euros to the total previously estimated cost of 14 to 15 billion euros.
ISTANBUL/BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Turkey accused the European Parliament of encouraging terrorism on Wednesday by exhibiting photographs from Kurdish-controlled northern Syria, highlighting the challenges Ankara and Brussels face in trying to finalise a migrants-for-visas deal.
Turkey has been enraged by the West's support for the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia in the battle against Islamic State. Ankara says the group is a terrorist organisation with ties to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) and fears the YPG will carve out an independent Kurdish state on its southern border.
The exhibit of 30 photos from northern Syria, "Rojava in the European Parliament", opened this week. Rojava is the Kurdish name for northern Syria.
"European Parliament has become an instrument (for) making propaganda of a terrorist organisation and encouraging terrorism w/ the exhibition," Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Twitter - an accusation that left the photographer, Thomas Schmidiner, perplexed.
The incident comes at an awkward time. Turkey is trying to secure visa-free travel to Europe as part of a wider agreement to curb illegal migration, but Brussels wants it to bring its anti-terrorism laws into line with EU standards.
Turkey says it cannot change the laws when it faces threats not only from jihadist group Islamic State, blamed for a suicide bombing that killed 45 people at Istanbul airport two weeks ago, but also from a three-decade-long insurgency fought by the PKK in its mainly Kurdish southeast.
The PKK is also considered a terrorist organisation by the European Union and United States.
Schmidiner said the exhibit was the product of visits to northern Syria between 2013 and 2015, and an attempt to show the daily lives of its people. He said he was puzzled by the suggestion it was terrorism propaganda.
"The exhibition is not about the PKK and not even about Turkey. It is an exhibition about Rojava, the Kurdish region of Syria," he told Reuters.
Many of the photos show everyday life in Rojava. But some show Kurdish fighters, and at least one a rally at which supporters carried photos of the PKK's jailed leader, Abdullah Ocalan.
Turkey previously criticised the EU after Belgian authorities allowed supporters of the PKK to set up a protest site outside an EU-Turkey summit in March.
PARIS (Reuters) - French authorities say they have identified the commander of the Nov. 13 Islamist militant attacks on Paris and know that Abdelhamid Abaaoud, cornered and killed days later by police, played a lesser role.
Newly published official documents cite testimony by Bernard Bajolet, France's head of external security, to a closed-door parliamentary inquiry into France's anti-terrorism activities held on May 24.
Bajolet did not identify who authorities now think was commander, or whether the person is alive or dead.
Abaaoud was initially described as the leader of the machinegun and suicide bomb attacks on the Bataclan music hall, Paris bars and restaurants, and the Stade de France football stadium, in which 130 people died.
"It is true that Abaaoud was a coordinator, but he was not the commander," Bajolet was quoted as saying. "We know who the commander is, but I will stay discreet on that point.
"We now have a good knowledge of the organogram ... We have made progress on these subjects, we therefore have an idea of the identity of the commander."
Parliament published recommendations of the inquiry last week and released its full report on Tuesday.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Support for the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (Afd) has fallen dramatically amid party infighting, racially-tinged criticism of Germany's popular national soccer team and even a local backlash over Britain's vote to leave the EU.
Analysts said the unexpectedly rapid implosion of the far-right AfD from 15 percent in opinion polls two months ago to a year-low of 8 percent on Wednesday could make it easier for Angela Merkel to retain power in next year's election.
Because Merkel's centre-right conservatives, their centre-left Social Democrat coalition allies and other parties reject any AfD alliance, the populist party's rise had cast doubt on her hopes of finding a partner big enough for a fourth term.
"All of a sudden, the populists aren't looking as attractive anymore," said Hans Vorlaender, political scientist at Dresden's Technical University. He said support was eroding due to bitter squabbling among AfD leaders and second thoughts on Brexit.
Britain voted in a referendum by a 52 to 48 percent margin on June 23 to leave the European Union. But several top leaders of the "Leave" campaign have since fallen by the wayside amid infighting over candidacies for top government posts and suggestions that some of their policy pledges were unrealistic.
"That Brexit leaders Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage ran away from responsibility so quickly showed AfD supporters they were promising an illusion," he added. "Their flight exposed the true colours and led to a lot of disillusionment towards populists."
Exacerbating the Afd's troubles, deputy leader Beatrix von Storch has drawn widespread condemnation for suggesting the German soccer team's semi-final defeat in the Euro championship tournament last week was the fault of the many players from immigrant families on the team.
Another AfD leader, Alexander Gauland, stirred outrage in May by saying most Germans would not want one of the team's black soccer stars, Jerome Boateng, as a neighbour.
Right-wing populist parties in Germany have a history of short shelf lives. In 1993, the Statt Partei (Instead Party) won 5.6 percent in Hamburg and up to 16 percent in local elections across Germany but collapsed as it drifted to the far right.
In 2001, the Schill Party enjoyed success in Hamburg, winning 20 percent of the vote. It tried to turn itself into a nationwide party but plunged into obscurity within six years.
"The AfD is being incredibly stupid, just like other far-right parties before it," said Hajo Funke, political scientist at Berlin's Free University. "Their leaders are openly tearing each other apart. The AfD is imploding faster than I expected."
Merkel has vacillated between trying to ignore the AfD, which began as an anti-euro party in 2013 and won 4.7 percent five months later in the last parliamentary election, and fighting it. Critics forecast it would self-destruct.
The AfD nearly collapsed in 2015 over another leadership battle but rebounded as a public backlash arose against Merkel's open-door policy towards refugees that saw Germany take in more than one million fleeing wars in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.
(Reuters) - Three Virginia men were wounded by a hail of gunfire in a shooting recorded on Facebook Live video, police said on Wednesday, another example of the phenomenon of violence being streamed online.
The men were shot shortly after 6 p.m. on Tuesday in Norfolk, about 150 miles (240 km) south of Washington, police said in a statement. The three, two of them 27 and one 29, were taken to a hospital. One is in critical condition.
The live video posted to Facebook showed three men sitting in a car smoking and listening to music. The camera is pointed up to the face of one man sitting in the front passenger seat.
Some five minutes into the video, about 30 shots erupt within less than half a minute. The camera drops while still running and records for more than an hour from the car's floor.
A few minutes later, somebody says, "We need an ambulance, three of us shot." About 10 minutes after the shooting, a man can be heard saying, "I got you. Don't focus on them, you focus on me, keep looking at me."
In the following minutes, emergency personnel discuss the victims. They mention wounds to the right temple, right shoulder and right arm.
The website of the Virginian-Pilot newspaper carried the video. Police confirmed that the shooting was broadcast live on Facebook and have not released a description of a suspect.
Less than a week ago in a widely publicized shooting, a Minnesota woman broadcast the bloody scene immediately after a police officer shot her boyfriend during a traffic stop.
Facebook Inc's Live feature is a central part of its growth strategy. The tool allows anyone to broadcast a video directly from a smartphone. Rivals Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc's YouTube are also pushing live video as a new frontier in internet content.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - At least 12 people were killed in air strikes on the rebel-held western Syrian town of Rastan on Wednesday, a local doctor and a monitoring group said, despite a government-declared nationwide temporary truce.
The British-based monitoring group, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, also said another 12 people were killed in rebel-controlled Ariha, north of Rastan, including three children.
Pictures from Ariha showed "White Helmet" rescue workers lifting slabs of broken grey concrete as they searched for survivors in the crumbled wreckage of a building.
Syrian government forces, backed by Russia's air force and President Bashar al-Assad's regional allies, said this week they had extended a nationwide "regime of calm" until just before midnight on Thursday.
But fighting has continued on several fronts.
The doctor in Rastan, about 100 miles (160 km) north of Damascus, said 12 people had been killed in the air strikes and the death toll was likely to rise because many others were seriously wounded. The Observatory put the death toll at 16.
Rastan is part of a rebel-held pocket of territory surrounded by government forces. Ariha, further north, is in the rebel-controlled province of Idlib, bordering Turkey.
The air strikes came as pro-government forces fought rebels and Islamist factions in the northern city of Aleppo.
The rebel half of the city has been effectively cut off for nearly a week after government forces backed by allies including Lebanon's Hezbollah advanced to within a few hundred metres (yards) of the only road into the rebel districts.
ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey aims to develop good relations with Syria and Iraq, and both countries need to be stable for counter-terrorism efforts to succeed, Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Wednesday.
Turkey has long been one of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's staunchest opponents, arguing that only his departure could stabilise Syria. That has set it at odds with Assad's ally Russia and distanced it from a U.S.-led coalition more focussed on fighting Islamic State.
Since taking office in May, Yildirim has repeatedly said that Turkey needs to "increase its friends and decrease its enemies" - an apparent tacit admission that past policies have left Ankara sidelined.
"It is our greatest and irrevocable goal: Developing good relations with Syria and Iraq, and all our neighbours that surround the Mediterranean and the Black Sea," Yildirim said, in comments broadcast live on television.
"We normalised relations with Russia and Israel. I'm sure we will normalise relations with Syria as well. For the fight against terrorism to succeed stability needs to return to Syria and Iraq," he said.
Jihadist group Islamic State, which controls parts of Syria and Iraq, has also established a network across the border in Turkey that has been blamed for a series of suicide bombings, some of which have targeted foreign tourists.
Turkey last month announced the restoration of diplomatic ties with Israel after a six-year rupture and expressed regret to Russia over the downing of a warplane, seeking to mend strained alliances. Officials have insisted those moves do not mark a broader foreign policy shift for Ankara.
"There is currently no change in Turkey's Syria policy. Turkey does not want to have problems with any countries in the region and emphasises the importance of ending terrorism as well as engaging in close cooperation for regional stability," one official told Reuters after Yildirim's comments.
"Of course Turkey wants to normalise ties with Syria, but there is no change in Turkey's policy regarding Syria with Assad."
PARIS (Reuters) - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls criticised Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday over the economy minister's thinly veiled presidential ambitions, accusing him of disloyalty in the face of serious threats facing the country.
In his most outspoken criticism levelled so far against his cabinet colleague, Valls laid bare the deepening tensions inside the government of unpopular President Francois Hollande, less than a year before parliamentary and presidential elections.
Speaking after Macron held a first rally for his recently founded political movement, promising a break with "the system", Valls implied that Macron had failed in his "duty of responsibility" to a country reeling from Islamist militant attacks.
"We have lived up to our responsibilities in the face of this threat," Valls said. "The duty of responsibility brings a duty of clarity, and to avoid exploiting ambiguity."
Macron, a 38-year-old former investment banker and presidential advisor, told his "En Marche" supporters on Tuesday he would carry the nascent movement to victory in next year's elections - without explicitly announcing a presidential bid.
"You're not very well placed to indulge in populist attacks on 'the system' when you are yourself an embodiment of the elite," Valls said.
Macron, who came to symbolise Hollande's 2014 pro-business U-turn, has been hinting for months at his loftier ambitions, to the mounting annoyance of rivals among the governing Socialists.
On Tuesday, to chants of "Macron for President!", he implicitly criticised his own government's timid economic reforms, vowing to shore up public support for deeper change across France's political landscape.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday asked German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande to use their influence to help prevent any escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, the Kremlin said in a statement.
Putin in a phone call with the two leaders expressed his concerns about the state of a shaky truce between Ukrainian government forces and pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine who have been fighting each other since 2014, the Kremlin said.
"The importance of not allowing any further escalation in the situation was underlined," it said of the call.
"Vladimir Putin expressed his concerns in connection with the intense shelling by Ukrainian troops of populated areas in Donbass," it added. The separatists and the Ukrainian army regularly accuse each other of violating the Minsk peace accord, which was meant to end the fighting.
Merkel has said she wants to see more progress on the accord before considering whether European Union sanctions imposed on Russia over its role in the Ukraine crisis should be lifted.
The three leaders had also discussed NATO's recent summit in Warsaw, which had weighed the threat the alliance considered Moscow poses, the Kremlin said. It said there had been consensus about the need for a constructive dialogue and specific measures to foster trust between Russia and NATO.
LJUBLJANA (Reuters) - Slovenia's finance minister Dusan Mramor resigned on Wednesday for what he said were personal reasons, prompting the opposition to call for an early election though junior members in the fragile ruling coalition insisted it was stable.
Prime Minister Miro Cerar said Alenka Smerkolj, Minister for European Cohesion, would fill in the role until a new finance minister had taken over, which he expected to happen in late August or early September. He did not name any candidates.
"In spite of this change the government will continue with its planned policy and will follow the strategy till 2020 which was laid out by minister Mramor and his team," Cerar said at a news conference to announce the resignation.
He would nominate a new candidate in the coming weeks, Cerar said. After that parliament must still give its approval.
Mramor, who tried to resign once before but was refused by Cerar, told the conference he had resigned "for entirely personal reasons".
Tanja Staric, a political analyst at Radio Slovenia, described the loss of Mramor as a blow to the coalition.
"With his resignation the chances that the government will survive till the end of its mandate (in 2018) are getting smaller," she said.
Junior coalition partners of the prime minister's Party of Modern Centre said the government remained stable in spite of Mramor's resignation.
But the opposition centre-right New Slovenia Party called for an early election, saying the coalition is weak and not able to push through necessary reforms.
The coalition is struggling to reconcile demands for public sector wage and pension hikes with reducing the budget deficit.
Slovenia, which narrowly avoided an international bailout for its banks in 2013, managed to reduce its budget deficit to below the EU's ceiling of 3 percent of GDP last year after running excessive deficits for six years.
The government aims to reduce the deficit to 2.2 percent of GDP this year and then gradually bring it to zero by 2020.
Alta Invest chief economist Saso Stanovnik said further deficit reductions would depend largely on who became the new finance minister.
Analysts said the resignation could further delay the sale of the country's largest bank NLB, which was rescued by the state in 2013 and is due to be sold by the end of 2017.
Last week, Slovenia postponed investment roadshows for the sale due to market volatility caused by Britain's vote to leave the European Union.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's state prosecutor on Wednesday charged pastor Evan Mawarire with attempting to overthrow the state via his Internet video campaign that inspired rare protests this month against President Robert Mugabe.
Mawarire appeared in a Harare court after spending the night in police cells while officers searched his house, church and office in the capital following several days of protests last week.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - An international tribunal's ruling that China has caused severe harm to coral reefs and endangered species in the South China Sea will not stop further damage to an already plundered ecosystem, scientists and academics said.
The Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague ruled on Tuesday that China did not have historic rights to the South China Sea and that it had breached Philippine sovereignty by endangering its ships and fishing and oil projects in the energy-rich waters.
China claims more than 90 percent of the South China Sea, an area which accounts for more than a tenth of global fisheries production and is also claimed in part by the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.
"China will take no notice of the Hague ruling," Brian Morton, Emeritus Professor of Marine Ecology at Hong Kong University, told Reuters. "And it will be virtually impossible to restore the reefs given global warming and destructive fishing techniques continuing."
William Cheung, associate professor at the University of British Columbia, said marine resources would still be at risk.
"I think the dispute is still posing large uncertainties to the management of resources and conservation of ecosystems in the South China Sea, after the Hague ruling," he told Reuters.
"The PRC (People's Republic of China) disputes the validity of the ruling. It means that cooperation between the countries bordering the South China Sea in managing the ecosystems is still challenging."
The tribunal found that China's large-scale reclamation and construction of artificial islands has caused severe harm to coral and violated the country's obligation to preserve fragile marine environments.
"The tribunal also found that Chinese authorities were aware that Chinese fishermen have harvested endangered sea turtles, coral and giant clams on a substantial scale," it stated.
In a commentary ahead of the ruling, China's Foreign Ministry said the construction of artificial islands had a very small impact on the environment and once completed the country would be able to "greatly enhance the environmental protection of the reefs and relevant practices would stand the test of time".
"China cares about the environment and ecology there more than any other country," Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told reporters in Beijing on Wednesday. "In fact, we have taken many steps to protect the ecology and environment."
But reefs in the South China Sea may not recover for up to 15 years, likely more if they are severely damaged and if dredgers continue to disturb them, according to a U.S. China Economic and Security report published in April.
"I am afraid that the Chinese say they will not honour the tribunal's decision," said Ed Gomez, a senior adviser at the University of the Philippines Marine Science Institute.
"I think we have a long way to go. But we have to keep trying."
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nepal's former Maoist rebels joined forces with the largest opposition party on Wednesday to lodge a motion of no-confidence in the prime minister, but the impoverished Himalayan country's increasingly isolated leader vowed to fight on.
Nepal has been plagued by political turmoil for years and the bid by the Maoists and the Nepali Congress Party to unseat Prime Minister K.P. Oli and form a new government has ushered in another phase of uncertainty.
Oli, who came to power in October, is accused by the one-time insurgents of reneging on promises and on Tuesday they withdrew their support in parliament for his fragile coalition.
"We have registered a vote of no-confidence against the prime minister," Pampha Bhusal, spokeswoman for the Maoist party, told Reuters.
"With our party withdrawing support for the Oli government it is in a minority and must resign."
A Nepali Congress spokesman confirmed that his party had given the Maoists its backing so a no-confidence motion could be formally registered. The motion will be tabled in parliament next week before a vote is held.
Neighbours India and China compete for influence in Nepal and are both likely to be concerned by the prospect of more instability in a country struggling to rebuild after a devastating earthquake last year.
Oli is Nepal's seventh prime minister since it abolished its 239-year old monarchy in 2008. The Maoists abandoned a bid to unseat him in May after they said he had agreed to work for a national consensus and address their concerns.
Oli's press adviser said the prime minister would remain leader and face the no-confidence vote.
"The prime minister will not resign," the adviser, Pramod Dahal, told Reuters.
With the Maoists and Congress joining forces, Oli's coalition in the 595-member parliament needs the support of other smaller parties to survive.
Analysts said the arithmetic was against Oli, particularly if the motion was tabled in coming days before he had time to convince other parties to back him.
"I really don’t see a chance for his survival. He has faced this challenge for a long time, only now does it look successful," said Bipin Adhikari, a constitutional expert at Kathmandu University.
However, ideological differences between the centrist Congress and the Maoists made their pact far from secure, Adhikari said.
Maoist leader Prachanda, who goes by the nom-de-guerre he used in the insurgency, which means "Fierce", is the favourite to replace 64-year-old Oli if he loses the vote.
The Maoists accuse Oli of failing to resolve anger in the south of the country over a new constitution, and of failing to rebuild homes and roads destroyed in last year's earthquake.
Nepal adopted a new constitution in September. Its passing looked like a rare moment of political consensus but protests soon followed.
Minority Madhesis, who live mostly in Nepal's lowlands near India, imposed a four-month border blockade to protest against a proposal to carve Nepal into seven federal states, which they say would divide their homeland and deprive them of a fair say.
More than 50 people were killed in clashes before protesters called off the blockade in February.
Nepal has seen 23 governments since 1990 when parliamentary democracy was introduced.
ISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - French diplomatic missions in Turkey's two main cities have shut until further notice and cancelled planned events to mark France's July 14 National Day due to security concerns, the embassy in Ankara said on Wednesday.
The French consulate general in Istanbul had been due to hold a reception on Wednesday evening to mark National Day, while French missions in Ankara and the Aegean coastal city of Izmir had planned events for Thursday.
"For security reasons, July 14th receptions planned in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir are cancelled," the embassy said in a statement, adding that it had informed the Turkish authorities of the decision and was in close contact with them.
"The embassy of France in Ankara, as well as the consulate general in Istanbul will be closed from Wednesday July 13, 1 p.m. (1100 BST), until further notice," it said.
The consulate general in Istanbul said earlier that there was information suggesting a "serious threat against plans for the celebration of the July 14 national holiday in Turkey".
Turkey faces multiple security threats, including from Islamic State militants, blamed for a triple suicide bombing at Istanbul's main airport two weeks ago which killed 45 people and wounded hundreds. That attack was the deadliest in a series of bombings this year in the NATO member state.
BUCHAREST (Reuters) - Anti-mafia police have broken up a Romanian human trafficking gang which forced dozens of kidnapped victims including children into beggary and slavery, rescuing five people from a village in central Romania.
"Today we rescued three adults and two children," said a prosecutor from the DIICOT Directorate for Fighting Organised Crime and Terrorism, adding that police had arrested 29 suspects thought to be part of the ring.
DIICOT said it was conducting a hunt around the site, some 170 kilometres (105 miles) northwest of Bucharest, to catch more crime ring members and that the overall number of victims is believed to be about 40.
"The people were locked, chained and undressed during the night, beaten and forced to eat lunch off the floor for the amusement of the suspects ... There is also suspicion that some of the victims were raped," DIICOT said in a statement.
An image taken by the special police during the rescue operation showed a young barefoot man hand-chained to the porch of a crumbling white-washed mud house in the small village of Berevoiesti.
The DIICOT said some of the victims had been kidnapped from around public places such as railway stations since 2008 and  had been fed only scraps of food by their masters. No other details about the victims or their whereabouts were disclosed.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel's military has nominated a new chief rabbi who seemed to imply in a past religious commentary that its soldiers are allowed to rape non-Jewish women in wartime.
Rabbi Colonel Eyal Karim's remarks 14 years ago stirred controversy at the time and remain on an Israeli religious website today, along with a link to a clarification he published on the same site in 2012 in which he said his words had been taken out of context and rape is forbidden "in any situation".
Karim's appointment, which still has to be approved by the defence minister, drew criticism on Tuesday from women's groups and a prominent female politician. They pointed to a reply Karim gave in 2002 to a question about the Bible's attitude towards rape during war, in the "Ask the Rabbi" section of kipa.co.il.
He responded that in the interests of maintaining warriors' morale and fighting fitness during armed conflict, it was permitted to "satisfy the evil inclination by lying with attractive Gentile women against their will".
His nomination on Monday as the military's head rabbi by its chief of staff revived public debate over Karim.
Yedioth Ahronoth, Israel's best-selling newspaper, weighed in with a front-page headline that read: "New chief military rabbi: rape is permissible in a war".
Issuing a statement on Tuesday on Karim's behalf, the military spokesman's office said he wanted to clarify that his writings in 2002 came in answer to a theoretical question and did not relate to "practical Jewish law".
"Rabbi Karim has never written, said or even thought that an Israeli soldier is permitted to sexually assault a woman in war, and anyone who interprets his words otherwise is completely mistaken," the statement said.
Zahava Galon, leader of the left-wing Meretz party, called on Facebook for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to intervene in the appointment. She described Karim, 59, as morally unsuitable for the post of chief rabbi in a military in which thousands of women serve.
Karim has, according to Israeli media reports, come out in the past against combat roles for women, who like men are drafted into Israel's military at the age of 18.
The mixing of sexes in Israel's armed forces is a sensitive issue for Orthodox Jews. Religious men and women can request an exemption from compulsory service.
CAIRO (Reuters) - An airplane powered by energy from the sun arrived on Wednesday in Egypt, the penultimate stop on the first fuel-free flight around the globe.
Solar Impulse 2, a spindly single-seat plane, flew over the Pyramids to make a smooth landing at Cairo airport at about 7:10 a.m. (0510 GMT) ending a flight leg that lasted 48 hours and 50 minutes.
The plane, which began its journey in Abu Dhabi in March 2015 and is due to end it there, has been piloted in turns by Swiss aviators Andre Borschberg and Bertrand Piccard in a campaign to build support for clean energy technologies.
Solar Impulse flies without a drop of fuel, its four engines powered solely by energy collected from more than 17,000 solar cells in its wings. Surplus power is stored in batteries during the day to keep the plane aloft on long-distance flights.
The carbon fibre plane, with a wingspan exceeding that of a Boeing 747 and the weight of a family car, is unlikely to set speed records. It can climb to about 8,500 metres (28,000 feet) and cruise at 55-100 kilometres per hour (34-62 mph).
The Solar Impulse team will now prepare for the final leg of the journey to United Arab Emirates, they said.
BEIJING (Reuters) - The European Union is hoping for the smoothest transition and best possible relationship with Britain after it leaves the union, EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said on Wednesday.
Home Secretary Theresa May is set to become prime minister on Wednesday, succeeding David Cameron, who announced he was stepping down after Britons unexpectedly voted last month to quit the European Union.
"For sure we're losing a lot but the UK is losing even more," Mogherini said during a visit to Beijing. "It's losing the possibility to sit around the table and contribute to the decision-making of the 28 (countries) altogether."
Mogherini said she did not believe Brexit would cause more countries to leave the EU but rather could have a deterrent effect.
"What I see in the public opinion reaction all over the world is awareness of the fact that slamming the door is not necessarily going to solve problems. On the contrary, it could make the house fall down," she said.
She added she hoped institutional turmoil in Britain ends as soon as possible.
At a separate event in Beijing, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said Brexit was impacting both the British and global economy.
"Although we feel that in the short term, Brexit will impact on the British economy and thus will impact the global economy to some extent, we think that in a few years from now there will be no remaining consequences on the global economy," Juncker said.
GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations and other aid agencies have enough food in eastern Aleppo to feed 145,000 people for one month, as 200,000-300,000 in the Syrian city are at risk of being besieged by Syrian government forces, the U.N. said on Wednesday.
An opposition official has told Reuters that rebel areas of the city had stocked enough basic supplies to survive months of a siege, even though some goods were running out.
Government forces backed by allies including Lebanon's Hezbollah and the Russian air force advanced last week to within a few hundred metres (yards) of the only road into the rebel-held part of Aleppo, making it impassable for the several hundred thousand people living there.
Prices of non-perishable staple foods have tripled and fresh produce has gone up by even more, if it can be found at all. A kilo (2.2 pounds) of tomatoes, which are now in season, costs at least five times more than they did before the blockade.
The president of the city council for opposition-held Aleppo told Reuters that the council had stockpiled flour, wheat, fuel, sugar and rice, and residents were being urged to adapt to the new situation. Opposition authorities were also trying to find alternative ways to supply the rebel-held zone, he said.
The U.N. said it had reports of 57 people being killed, including 15 children, by shelling of western Aleppo between July 8 and July 11, and government airstrikes on July 10 had killed at least 19 people in Ibeen and seven in Shantra, two towns in rural Aleppo.
It said information on eastern Aleppo was difficult to collect, but it was one of the areas hardest hit by conflict with most people heavily dependent on humanitarian assistance.
The U.N. says almost 600,000 people are under siege, mainly by government forces, in 18 locations across Syria.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Two Chinese civilian aircraft landed on Wednesday at two new airports on reefs controlled by China in the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, Mischief Reef and Subi Reef, the official Xinhua news agency said.
The aircraft then returned to the southern Chinese island province of Hainan, from where they had taken off, it added in a brief story on one of its official microblogs.
It was not immediately clear if both aircraft visited both of the reefs, or if one went to one reef, and the other to the other reef.
MUMBAI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - India's drive to ramp up coal output to meet growing energy needs has resulted in members of the Adivasi tribe being displaced from their ancestral lands and forced to wait years to be resettled, Amnesty International said on Wednesday.
The global human rights group said the Adivasi had suffered disproportionately from India's push for coal. One in six of the 87,000 Indians who have been displaced over the past 40 years by state-owned Coal India Ltd (CIL) is Adivasi, Amnesty said.
Laws to protect vulnerable communities such as indigenous groups are poorly implemented and regularly flouted, it said.
"Adivasi communities, who traditionally have strong links to land and forests, have suffered disproportionately from development-induced displacement and environmental destruction in India," Amnesty said in a report.
"The domestic Indian legal framework does not fully recognise the rights of indigenous peoples," it said.
Coal accounts for more than 60 percent of India's electricity capacity, and the government plans to nearly double annual coal output by 2020, opening a new mine nearly every month.
Many of India's coal reserves are located in the central and eastern states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha where more than a quarter of the country's Adivasi population lives.
"Coal is essential for our national security and we have to go where the coal is," said N. Das, a chief general manager at Coal India, the country's top coal producer.
"We follow all the laws, work closely with the local communities, provide jobs, set up welfare initiatives and take steps to minimise the environmental impact of mining," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Adivasis are among the most marginalised communities. They make up about 8 percent of India's population of 1.2 billion, but about 40 percent of the 60 million people displaced by development projects in past decades, the government estimates.
Adivasis are routinely shut out of decisions on the acquisition of their lands for coal mines with many evicted, poorly compensated and made to wait years for resettlement, Amnesty said.
"The violations of their rights to consultation and consent -- around land acquisition, environmental impacts, indigenous self-governance and the use of traditional lands -- has led to serious impacts on their lives and livelihoods," it said.
Acquisition of land for public-sector coal mining is governed by the Coal Bearing Areas Acquisition and Development Act (1957), a law analysts say is antiquated and falls well short of international human rights law and standards.
A 2014 law on land acquisition for development projects aimed for greater transparency by requiring the consent of affected families, and a social impact assessment study. But the law exempts land acquired for public-sector coal mining.
Amnesty said in some cases legal requirements were adhered to but carried out in a way that did not help Adivasi communities.
For example, the intent to acquire land for the Kusmunda mine in Chhattisgarh was announced in the official government gazette and in a newspaper, yet more than a third of the residents near the mine were not literate, Amnesty said.
An environmental impact assessment hearing was poorly publicised and monitored by security personnel, it said.
"We've lived next to this mine for almost 30 years, and watched our wells go dry, forests disappear and fields become unproductive," Amnesty quoted a villager, Mahesh Mahant, as saying.
"What is the point of this environmental public hearing, except to tell us that we're not fit to live here anymore?"
Amnesty also highlighted the environmental damage, soil erosion and pollution caused by coal mining in India, which is largely open cast.
Among the 10 cities with the most air pollution, four are in India, according to the World Health Organization, with the use of coal in power generation a leading source of pollution.
"We should be looking at ways to increase the efficiency of existing mines, rather than open new mines," Sreedhar Ramamurthi at the non-profit Mines, Minerals & People, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"The very nature of coal mining is so harmful," he said. "We must ensure stringent compliance of laws and resolve the issues of rehabilitation and resettlement to mitigate the damage."
MUSCAT (Reuters) - Human Rights Watch (HRW) has accused Oman of not doing enough to tackle widespread abuse of foreign maids, which it says sometimes verges on slavery.
The group said it had documented physical and sexual abuse, confiscation of passports, excessive working hours and at least one case in which a maid was "sold" to another employer.
Omani authorities did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the HRW report, released on Wednesday.
Based on interviews with 59 of at least 130,000 domestic maids working in the Gulf Arab sultanate, HRW said it had concluded that Oman's laws did not adequately protect them and employers often mistreated them without being punished.
"It is clear that abuses are widespread and that they are generally carried out with impunity," the New York-based group said.
"Situations like those described below are at the very least dangerously close to situations of slavery."
A Bangladeshi maid said she left home to work for an employer in the United Arab Emirates before a new employer paid cash for her to be transferred to Oman.
"I was sold," HRW quoted Asma K. as saying.
Under Oman's kafala, or sponsorship, system - used in several Gulf Arab countries - migrant workers’ visas are tied to their employers and may not be transferred to a new employer without the previous employer’s permission.
Around half of Oman's population of 4.4 million people are foreigners sponsored by their employers to live and work there.
Oman's female domestic servants come mainly from Indonesia, Ethiopia, South Asia and the Philippines.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Moscow on Thursday to discuss the Syria and Ukraine crises, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Wednesday.
"The issues (to be discussed) are fairly predictable. Syria, Ukraine and bilateral relations," Peskov told reporters on a conference call.
Kerry will also hold talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Friday, Peskov said.
WARSAW (Reuters) - The EU must not let Britain profit from leaving the bloc as that could inspire other states to follow suit, European Council President Donald Tusk said, echoing other policymakers in  signalling a tough stance in upcoming Brexit negotiations.
Britons voted in a referendum last month to quit the European Union, with pro-leave campaigners saying the country needed to set limits on immigration.
But EU leaders have made clear that Britain could not retain access to the bloc's single market without accepting the right of other EU nationals to move to the country.
"No one should be seething with desire to punish, humiliate (the British) for what they have done to us," Tusk, who chairs meetings of EU heads of state, told Polish weekly Polityka in an interview published on Wednesday.
But if leaving the 28-country bloc was to become an attractive model of improving a country's standing, then other countries would also consider doing so.
"We cannot push them away from us, but we cannot let them profit from Brexit, as that would be lethal for the EU," Tusk said.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel told broadcaster ZDF on Sunday that Britain would not be allowed to "cherry pick" what it wanted from the relationship while jettisoning aspects it did not like.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Asking a Muslim employee to remove her headscarf when dealing with clients amounts to unlawful direct discrimination, a legal advisor to the European Union's top court said in a written opinion on Wednesday.
The case arose when a female employee of a French IT consultancy was fired after refusing to remove her headscarf when meeting clients. She challenged this before a French court, which referred the case to the European Court of Justice.
"There is nothing to suggest she was unable to perform her duties as a design engineer because she wore an Islamic headscarf," Advocate General Eleanor Sharpston wrote.
Opinions by the Court's advocates general are advisory but it usually follows their advice in drawing up a final ruling.
While a company could impose a neutral dress code if it pursued a legitimate aim, Sharpston said it was hard to see how such a measure could be seen as proportionate in the present case.
France bars civil servants from wearing clothing indicating religious belief, such as a headscarf or a Jewish skullcap, but not employees in the private sector. Companies can set dress codes but their exact legal status is disputed.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A former editor of a Russian media group described how he and colleagues were pushed out over reporting that angered officials, in the first public account of the taming of Russia's last big news organization willing to take on the Kremlin.
In his first public comments since his dismissal along with two other top editors from RBC media group in May, Roman Badanin told Reuters that he and his colleagues were fired in the wake of a campaign of pressure on the group's billionaire owner that came to a head after they published a story on the "Panama Papers" leaks.
Last week, RBC managers presented the replacement editors, recruited from state-owned news agency Tass, who told a tense meeting with staff that there would be limits on what and how they could report, according to someone who was present.
RBC's owner Mikhail Prokhorov, a metals magnate who also owns the Brooklyn Nets U.S. basketball team, had previously shielded its journalists. The group's news agency, newspaper and television station wrote stories about Putin's friends and family, and other taboo subjects like the presence of Russian troops in Ukraine.
But after the Panama Papers story in April, which was illustrated with a picture of Putin and alleged that a close childhood friend of the president's had offshore accounts, the official pressure was turned up a notch.
"It was precisely after this, so I'm told, that the problems started," said Badanin.
Days after the story appeared, masked law-enforcement officers raided the headquarters of Prokhorov's holding company Onexim in what officials called a tax investigation.
A short while after, the head of a utility company owned by Onexim group was arrested on suspicion of fraud.
"Apparently the build-up of attacks on the owner became very powerful," Badanin said. "Listen: searches, criminal cases against the management of the company, demonstrations under their windows. Everything at the same time."
Badanin said he had long been aware that officials were angry at RBC's reporting: messages had been passed to its Kremlin reporters and other journalists. A nationalist group led by a pro-Kremlin member of parliament staged several protests in front of the group's offices, accusing it of spreading pro-Western propaganda.
"Of course there are people in the Kremlin who don't like us, that is nothing new," said Badanin.
Under Putin's 17-year rule, major television stations and newspapers have, one by one, come under the control of state firms or oligarchs loyal to the Kremlin, and their coverage has gone from combative to deferential.
However, RBC under Prokhorov's ownership gained a reputation as the last big media company willing to write stories about the most sensitive issues. In the past two years it published articles on Putin's daughter and the business interests of Kirill Shamalov, who Reuters reported last year is Putin's son-in-law.
On May 13, the group announced that it was firing Badanin, the editor of its news agency, as well as group editor-in-chief Elizaveta Osetinskaya, and the editor of its daily newspaper Maxim Solyus.
One of the aims of the sackings "was that the editorial policy would become more cautious", Badanin said.
Badanin said he had learned from executives in the media group that officials had, on occasion, called people close to the group's owners to ask to have some articles removed.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov denied this: "Nobody, and they will confirm this, ever went to them (RBC) with a demand or a request to not publish anything, and certainly nothing was said to the owner. It is a gross exaggeration, an absolutely gross exaggeration."
RBC declined to comment, as did Onexim, Prokhorov's holding group.
By July 7, when RBC General Director Nikolai Molibog presented the new editors recruited from Tass, Elizaveta Golikova and Igor Trosnikov, many journalists had already handed in their notice and others were considering their positions.
Several journalists pressed the new bosses to say if there would be restrictions on what they could report to avoid angering the authorities.
"If someone thinks that you can (publish) whatever, just absolutely everything -- that's not the case," Trosnikov said, according to a transcript of the staff meeting published by news site meduza.io and which was confirmed as authentic by the person present.
"I can't say to you that there are no restrictions at all. They exist. If someone believes there aren't any, they should write for themselves on Facebook."
BANGKOK (Reuters) - A Canadian suspected of robbing a Singapore bank of S$30,000 (16,710 pounds) will be sent abroad, Thailand's police chief said on Wednesday, but he did not say whether he would be sent to Singapore or Canada.
The rare bank robbery in Singapore sparked a flurry of debate about whether the country has grown too complacent about security, with crime rates among the lowest in the world.
Thai Police Commissioner General Jakthip Chaijinda told reporters in Bangkok that Singapore had asked for the suspect to be extradited to Singapore.
"Singapore is in the middle of asking for this suspect back but the decision rests with the courts," said Jakthip. "We are waiting to send him abroad."
Thai immigration chief Police Lieutenant General Nattorn Prohsunthorn named the suspect on Tuesday as 27-year-old Canadian David James Roach.
Thai police had earlier said Roach was 26.
"We tried to interrogate David but he would not speak to us and asked to speak to his embassy," said Nattorn.
"Yesterday the Canadian embassy came to see him. We think the Canadians would like to send him back to Canada but first we need to follow Thai legal procedure."
Thailand has an extradition treaty with Canada.
Reuters was unable to immediately reach the Canadian Embassy in Bangkok for comment.
Roach arrived in Bangkok on Thursday, hours after the Standard Chartered Bank [STAN.L] in Singapore's Holland Village was robbed.
He was arrested at a hostel in Bangkok's Pratunam shopping district.
A man slipped the Singapore bank teller a note saying he was armed, a source with knowledge of the matter said.
The teller pressed a silent alarm button and police arrived within minutes, but it was too late, said the source, who declined to be identified as he was not authorised to speak to the media.
Standard Chartered said the bank had taken "immediate actions to further enhance" security. It declined to comment on the details of the robbery.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraqi government forces advancing on the Islamic State-held city of Mosul retook a village from IS on Tuesday and linked up along the Tigris river with army units pushing from a separate direction, Defence Minister Khalid al-Obeidi said.
The territorial gain, which followed the recapture of a key air base nearby at the weekend, further isolated Mosul in preparation for a government assault to recover Iraq's second largest city 60 km (40 miles) to the north.
"Forces from the 9th Armoured Division and the counter-terrorism service liberated Ajhala village north of Qayara base," Obeidi said on Twitter.
"Our heroes arrived at the riverbank and made contact with Nineveh Liberation Operation units," he added, referring to troops who had set out from Makhmour, 25 km east of the Tigris, in March.
The newly retaken territory still needs to be secured since IS insurgents remain holed up in several towns behind the government's front line, a military spokesman said.
Backed by air support from a U.S.-led military coalition, government forces on Saturday regained Qayara air base, which is to be turned into a logistics hub for the main assault on Mosul.
On Monday, U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced the dispatch of 560 additional soldiers to Iraq, most of whom will work from Qayara to assist the Iraqi thrust towards Mosul.
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi has pledged to retake the city, the largest still held by IS, by year-end, but there is still debate in Washington about the timing of any move.
Suicide bombings like the one in Baghdad on July 3 that killed nearly 300 people, one of the largest attacks since the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein 13 years ago, suggest the group could remain a long-term threat.
IS claimed another car bomb on Wednesday in Baghdad's northern outskirts that left nine people dead, according to medical and security sources.
On Wednesday, Abadi's government urged the postponing of demonstrations called for by powerful Shi'ite Muslim cleric Moqtada al-Sadr later this week to pressure political leaders to implement long-promised reforms.
A statement from Abadi warned the protests could land the country in "chaos ... and end up serving the goals of the enemy and its terrorism".
Sadr, whose supporters twice stormed Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone earlier this year, called for a reprieve from protests during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which ended last week.
DALLAS (Reuters) - They stood in a line, clasping hands as a choir sang, Democrat and Republican, black and white, politician and cop. Led by President Barack Obama and his predecessor George W. Bush, they honored the five Dallas policemen slain last week and urged Americans to rise above racial divides and reject despair.
The scene unfolded at a memorial service after a week when Americans were jarred by video images of angry crowds protesting police killings of black men in Louisiana and Minnesota and heard the screams of Thursday's sniper attack on police in Dallas by a black former U.S. soldier who had said he wanted to "kill white people."
"We turn on the TV or surf the internet, and we can watch positions harden and lines drawn and people retreat to their respective corners," the first black U.S. president said. "I understand how Americans are feeling. But Dallas, I'm here to say we must reject such despair. I'm here to insist that we are not as divided as we seem."
In a spontaneous display of unity, Obama and first lady Michelle Obama, former president George W. Bush and his wife Laura, Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill, Mayor Mike Rawlings, Police Chief David Brown and others on stage joined hands at the end of the service as a choir sang "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
Obama sought a careful balance, paying tribute to the dead police officers and showing respect for the country's law enforcement while also acknowledging the concerns of those protesting against police violence.
He noted that the Dallas attack came during a protest against racial discrimination in policing that followed the fatal police shootings of black men in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and outside St. Paul, Minnesota. A series of high-profile police killings of black men in the past two years have sparked the most intense debate on race and justice in America in decades.
"America, we know that bias remains. We know it," Obama told the crowd of several hundred people, including many uniformed police officers, at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center.    "None of us is entirely innocent. No institution is entirely immune. And this includes our police departments."
Obama alluded to the Black Lives Matter protest movement stirred into action by the long series of police killings, which some have painted as anti-police. He said that even people who dislike the phrase Black Lives Matter should recognize the pain felt by the family of Alton Sterling, the 37-year-old black man shot dead last week in Baton Rouge by police who said he was reaching for a gun.
Obama praised the police in Dallas and around the country.
"When anyone, no matter how good their intentions may be, paints all police as biased or bigoted, we undermine those officers we depend on for our safety," Obama said.
"And as for those who use rhetoric suggesting harm to police, even if they don't act on it themselves, well they not only make the jobs of police officers even more dangerous, but they do a disservice to the very cause of justice that they claim to promote," Obama added.
Bush also addressed the packed hall, where five chairs were empty of people, holding folded American flags, in memory of the slain officers. Bush also sought to strike a note of unity.
"At times it feels like the forces pulling us apart are stronger than the forces binding us together. Argument turns too easily into animosity," Bush said. "We do not want the unity of grief nor do we want the unity of fear. We want the unity of hope, affection and high purpose."
The slain officers were Mike Smith, 55; Lorne Ahrens, 48; Michael Krol, 40; Brent Thomson, 43, and Patrick Zamarripa, 32.
The death toll in Dallas was the highest for law enforcement on a single day in the United States since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Nine other officers and two civilians were also wounded.
Outside the hall, Sharice Williams, 41, who drove roughly 95 miles (155 km) from Waco, stood in hopes of catching a glimpse of Obama.
"My heart is heavy. I'm tired of seeing my brothers and sisters killed, but the police don't deserve that," said Williams, who is black. "I'm praying that Obama being here brings us some kind of peace."
Chief Warren Asmus, a 35-year veteran with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, said he flew in for the memorial.
"I was grateful for many of the things President Obama said in there," said Asmus, 57. "I need to understand what the black community goes through just as much as they need to understand what the police community goes through."
During his flight to Dallas, Obama placed condolence calls to families of Sterling and of Philando Castile, the 32-year-old man shot dead during a traffic stop outside St. Paul.
PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (Reuters) - Democrat Bernie Sanders endorsed former rival Hillary Clinton for president in a display of party unity on Tuesday, describing her as the best candidate to fix the United States' problems and beat Republican Donald Trump in the Nov. 8 election.
With Clinton nodding in agreement beside him, Sanders put aside their bitter campaign for the Democratic nomination and said she would take up the fight to ease economic inequality, make college more affordable and expand healthcare coverage for all Americans.
"This campaign is about the needs of the American people and addressing the very serious crises that we face, and there is no doubt in my mind that, as we head into November, Hillary Clinton is far and away the best candidate to do that," he told a raucous crowd in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, that included plenty of vocal Sanders supporters.
"I intend to do everything I can to make certain she will be the next president of the United States," the U.S. senator from Vermont said.
His endorsement, five weeks after Clinton became the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, brought the most prominent holdout in the party's liberal wing into her camp. Sanders threw Clinton his support less than two weeks before the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, where she is to be formally nominated.
"I can't help but reflect on how much more enjoyable this election will be now that we are on the same side," Clinton said of Sanders. "Thank you, Bernie, for your endorsement, but more than that, thank you for your lifetime of fighting injustice."
Trump ridiculed the move in a series of Twitter posts, saying Sanders had abandoned the supporters who flocked to his insurgent campaign to rein in Wall Street and get big money out of politics.
"Bernie Sanders endorsing Crooked Hillary Clinton is like Occupy Wall Street endorsing Goldman Sachs," Trump said on Twitter.
In a statement, the Trump campaign said Sanders was now officially part of the rigged system the senator had criticized during his long primary battle with Clinton.
"Bernie's endorsement becomes Exhibit A in our rigged system - the Democrat Party is disenfranchising its voters to benefit the select and privileged few," said Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser to Trump.
In a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released on Tuesday, Clinton extended her lead over Trump to 13 percentage points, up from 10 points at the end of last week.
The former U.S. secretary of state hopes the Portsmouth appearance with Sanders will help her win over his supporters, some of whom held Sanders signs at the rally and chanted his name. In recent Reuters/Ipsos polling, only about 40 percent of Sanders backers said they would back Clinton, and the crowd at Tuesday's rally made it clear she still had work to do.
"I am absolutely certain I will not vote for Hillary Clinton," said Gale Bailey, a Sanders supporter and an unemployed graphic designer from Rochester, New Hampshire, who attended the rally in a Sanders T-shirt.
"She's a crook, and I'm not going to vote for a crook," Bailey said, adding that she would write in Sanders' name on the November ballot.
The joint appearance concluded weeks of negotiations between the two camps as Sanders pressed for concessions from Clinton on his liberal policy agenda.
It came after Clinton last week adopted elements of Sanders' plans for free in-state college tuition and expanded affordable healthcare coverage. Sanders also successfully pushed to include an array of liberal policy positions in the Democratic platform, which a committee approved on Saturday.
Sanders did not win all of his policy fights, most notably failing to win support for blocking a congressional vote on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
But he told the Portsmouth rally that "our job now is to see that platform implemented by a Democratically controlled Senate, a Democratically controlled House and a Hillary Clinton presidency – and I am going to do everything I can to make that happen."
In an email to supporters after the rally, Sanders said he would still push for changes to the party's nominating process to make it more inclusive. In the months ahead, he will campaign around the country for progressive congressional candidates, he said.
Also on Tuesday, a source with knowledge of the process said the Clinton campaign is vetting James Stavridis, a retired four-star Navy admiral, as a potential vice presidential running mate. Stavridis, who served as supreme allied commander at NATO, is currently dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Top Democrats, including President Barack Obama and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a favourite of the party's liberal wing, have already announced their support for Clinton, leaving Sanders at risk of being left behind in the Democratic battle against Trump.
"I think all signs point to the fact that we're going to have a very united party going into Philadelphia," Clinton campaign spokesman Brian Fallon said on CNN earlier on Tuesday, "and when you compare it to the Republicans, we're going to be miles ahead of them."
Trump has struggled to unify the Republican Party after alienating many establishment figures with his stances on immigration, Muslims and women. A number of prominent Republicans are skipping the party's convention in Cleveland next week.
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - A former energy official continued his rapid rise in Mexico's political establishment to become leader of the ruling party on Tuesday, vowing to rid it of corruption after scandals that have battered the authority of President Enrique Pena Nieto.
Enrique Ochoa, head of the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) until he resigned on Friday, was confirmed as chairman of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) by an internal committee, and immediately said the party must clean up its image.
"It's unacceptable to turn a blind eye, we must react," Ochoa told a crowd of party members. "We must be a party that flags corruption in our own governments, one that demands that they are held accountable and even subject to dismissal."
Pena Nieto's office accused two state governments on Monday of flouting anti-corruption laws, a move that political analysts saw as a warning to their outgoing PRI governors, who have been tarnished by graft accusations.
The PRI has ruled Mexico continuously since 1929, barring a hiatus from 2000 to 2012, and its name has become synonymous with political corruption over time.
Pena Nieto's administration has done little to change that perception. He, his wife, and his finance minister were all embroiled in a damaging conflict-of-interest scandal when it emerged they bought homes from government contractors.
A subsequent probe led by an official close to Pena Nieto found no evidence of wrongdoing.
Ochoa, a combative and ambitious lawyer who cut his teeth in a string of technocratic roles, had seen little of the limelight but has now been thrust into the very public role of leading the PRI into the 2018 presidential elections.
He replaces Manlio Fabio Beltrones, who stepped down after voters angry about graft and gang violence punished the PRI in regional elections. Such anger was epitomized by the apparent massacre in 2014 of 43 students by a drug gang working with corrupt police.
A close ally of Pena Nieto, Ochoa was instrumental in crafting the president's landmark 2013 energy reform while deputy energy minister. He took over at the CFE in 2014, where he presided over a reduction in costly industrial power rates.
Some senior PRI figures in the government would like to see Ochoa run for president in 2018, although Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong is better known.
Ochoa, 43, also holds a doctorate in political science from Columbia University.
BEIJNG (Reuters) - China has the right to set up an air defence zone in the South China Sea, but this will depend on the level of threats faced, China's Vice Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin said on Wednesday.
China hopes to return to bilateral talks with Manila over the South China Sea, Liu said, following a ruling by an international arbitration panel which found in favour of the Philippines on a number of disputes in the region.
BEIJING (Reuters) - The Philippines claims of sovereignty in the South China Sea are "baseless" and Chinese fishing boats have been harassed and attacked by the Philippines around the Spratly Islands, the Chinese government said in a white paper published on Wednesday.
China is firm in upholding its sovereignty over South China Sea islands, it said in the document published after an international tribunal ruled that China had breached the Philippines' sovereign rights by endangering its ships and fishing and oil projects in the energy-rich region.
The Philippines' unilateral initiation of arbitration was an "act of bad faith" it said, adding that China was committed to upholding freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is expected to announce his choice for running mate at a campaign event on Friday, campaign sources said on Tuesday.
Among the possible picks are former U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and retired Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, according to media reports and Republican sources.
"I have it down to five people," Trump told Fox News on Tuesday.
Pence introduced Trump at a campaign rally in Westfield, Indiana, on Tuesday evening. "I don't know if he's going to be your governor or your vice president. Who the hell knows," Trump told the rally.
Gingrich and Christie have also campaigned with Trump in recent weeks.
The Republican National Convention, where Trump is set to be formally nominated as the party's candidate for the Nov. 8 election, begins on Monday in Cleveland.
LIMA (Reuters) - Peru's President-elect Pedro Pablo Kuczynski will appoint Gonzalo Tamayo, a leading economist for local consulting firm Macroconsult, as his energy and mines ministry in his first cabinet, a source said on Tuesday.
Tamayo will be tasked with overseeing major policy decisions on mining as investments in the country's key sector have tumbled on weak commodity prices and local protests derailed two major projects in recent years.
He will also inherit a $5 billion natural gas pipeline project snagged on financing problems and a crisis at state-owned energy company Petroperu after oil spills shut the country's only pipeline for transporting crude.
Kuczynski has also chosen Elsa Galarza, an economist and the head of the research unit at Lima's University of the Pacific, as his environment minister, the source and another source who also spoke on condition of anonymity said.
Kuczynski, a 77-year-old former investment banker who will take office on July 28, plans to announce his full cabinet on Friday. His office did not respond to requests for comment.
Tamayo is the general manager of Macroconsult and specializes in analysing infrastructure projects, regulations and competitiveness, according to the company's website. He has also served on the boards of telecommunications regulator Osiptel and state-owned electricity company Electroperu.
Tamayo and Galarza, who was a deputy fisheries minister during the government of ex-president Alan Garcia, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Peru is expected to become the world's second biggest copper supplier this year and is also a major producer of zinc, gold, silver and tin.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - At least nine people were killed and 32 wounded on Tuesday when a car packed with explosives was detonated in a district just north of Baghdad, security and medical sources said.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast in Rashidiya, but Islamic State regularly carries out such bombings in the capital and other parts of Iraq, where it seized large swathes of territory in 2014.
Baghdad is on high alert for attacks after a blast in the central Karrada district on July 3 killed at least 292 people, making it one of the deadliest bombings in Iraq since U.S.-led forces toppled Saddam Hussein 13 years ago.
Islamic State has turned increasingly to ad hoc attacks, which U.S. and Iraqi officials have touted as proof that battlefield setbacks are weakening the jihadists. But critics say a global uptick in suicide attacks attributed to the group suggests it may adapt and survive.
BEIRUT/AMMAN (Reuters) - Rebel areas of Aleppo have stockpiled enough basic supplies to survive months of siege by Syrian pro-government forces that cut off their half of the city last week, even though some goods are running out, an opposition official said.
Government forces backed by allies including Lebanon's Hezbollah and the Russian air force advanced last week to within a few hundred meters (yards) of the only road into the rebel-held part of Aleppo, making it impassable for the several hundred thousand people living there.
The advance has brought Damascus closer to achieving its long-held aim of encircling rebel districts of Aleppo, Syria's largest city and a potent symbol of the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad now in its sixth year.
Rebel forces are fighting back in an attempt to reopen the Castello road. The opposition does not expect the Syrian army and its allies to storm the populous, rebel-controlled sector of Aleppo, and is preparing for the possibility of a long siege.
Russian officials said Moscow was there to help Damascus in its fight because the road had been used to supply armed groups, but the United States urged Russia to put pressure on the Syrian government to cease its onslaught.
With prices rocketing in Aleppo, opposition authorities were seeking to ration consumption to prevent hoarding and prevent traders from overcharging, said Brita Hagi Hassan, president of the city council for opposition-held Aleppo.
He said opposition authorities were also moving towards opening "alternative ways" into the rebel-held part of the city.
"We have the capability to open new ways because the situation is still under control," Hassan told Reuters. The plans were secret, he added, speaking from a rural area west of Aleppo after twice failing to enter the city last week.
Prices of non-perishable staple foods have tripled and fresh produce has gone up by even more, if it can be found at all. A kilo (2.2 pounds) of tomatoes, which are now in season, costs at least five times more than they did before the blockade.
The city council has stockpiled flour, wheat, fuel, sugar and rice, and residents were being urged to adapt to the new situation, Hassan said. "I reassured people on this matter ... we can remain for several months without a problem.
"There are posters, pamphlets and there will be a press conference about this matter, so that the people are aware of the new situation, because the situation is very bad."
Operators of generators had been told to cut back their use to two hours a day, and the council had set aside fuel for essential uses such as bakeries.
As part of their counter-attack, rebels bombarded government-held neighborhoods of Aleppo, where the population is estimated at slightly over 1 million people. Air strikes have also targeted rebel areas of the city.
"The streets are abnormally quiet after several barrel bombs hit our neighborhood. People are waiting," said Malek Idrees, a father of five who lives in a rebel district.
"I could not find fresh produce for the last two days ... but there are no severe shortages ... most goods (are) still in the markets. I could not find bread yesterday," he said.
The United Nations said it was worried about increased fighting in and around Aleppo and called for humanitarian aid access and the safe and rapid evacuation of civilians.
U.N. spokeswoman Alessandra Vellucci said that intensified hostilities had cut off 300,000 people. Hassan estimated the population in the rebel zone to be 400,000.
Assad is backed by Moscow, which launched air strikes in September, as well as by Iranian and Lebanese Shi'ite Hezbollah fighters. Hezbollah has said it regards Aleppo - Syria's pre-war commercial hub - as the most important battleground in the country, equating it with the defense of the capital Damascus.
"The fact is that the (Castello) road has been very actively and heavily used to supply various terrorist groups," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said on Tuesday. "Clearly in that kind of a situation, the government has to fight back and we're there to help them in this regard."
Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations,  told a U.N. Security Council meeting Assad's bid to encircle eastern Aleppo would have "potentially devastating consequences.
"Russia, as a co-sponsor of the cessation of hostilities, should use its influence on the regime to help stop these attacks," Power said, referring to a truce agreed in February that subsequently unraveled.
Assad's allies say they are battling the al Qaeda-linked Nusra Front in Aleppo. But Western-backed nationalist insurgents loosely grouped under the banner of the Free Syrian Army say they control the rebel-held part of the city.
Nusra Front said it and the Nour al-Din al-Zinki insurgent group had fought back and advanced in an area near the Castello road late on Tuesday. There was no immediate Zinki comment.
KABUL (Reuters) - The senior U.S. commander in Afghanistan will have greater freedom to strike at the Taliban under broad new powers approved last month by President Barack Obama, U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said on Tuesday.
Carter, on an unannounced visit to Afghanistan, said the powers granted General John Nicholson would allow "much more efficient use and effective use of the forces we have here as well as the Afghan forces."
The new authorities give U.S. forces greater ability to accompany and enable Afghan forces battling a resilient Taliban insurgency, while also allowing greater use of U.S. air power, particularly close air support. Previously, Nicholson - who commands both the NATO-led Resolute Support mission and a separate U.S. counter terrorism mission - was only allowed to take action against the Taliban "in extremis," or moments when assistance was needed to prevent a significant Afghan military setback.
"Whereas previously he waited until a situation had developed in which Afghan forces really needed our enabling support, now he's able to look ahead," Carter said at a talk with American troops at Bagram air base, flanked by Nicholson.
"That's a better way of making use of what we have here now," he said.
Afghan forces, fighting largely on their own since the NATO-led mission ended most combat operations in 2014, have frequently asked for more combat assistance from their allies, particularly for close air strikes.
Nicholson said the broader authorities were being used "almost daily" in support of Afghan forces. He pointed to a significant pickup in the pace of U.S. operations 18 months after the end of the main NATO combat mission.
A U.S. military official said the new authorities had been used a couple of dozen times since they were approved by the White House in June.
Carter's visit comes days after Obama shelved plans to cut the U.S. force in Afghanistan nearly in half by year's end, opting instead to keep 8,400 troops there through to the end of his presidency in January.
Of that number, around 3,000 will be advising Afghan troops, and 3,300 will be working as "enablers" in support roles, Nicholson said. An additional 400 troops based "over the horizon" - outside Afghanistan - will round out the U.S. contribution to the NATO mission. An additional 2,150 U.S. troops will be focused on counter terrorism operations, he said.
As an example of how the new authorities are being used, Nicholson cited "combat enablers" the United States had provided to the Afghans in their fight to expand the territory they control around the northern city of Kunduz. Such enablers can serve in a broad variety of roles, such as engineers or electronic warfare specialists.
He contrasted that with the U.S. role last year, when Kunduz was briefly captured by the Taliban. At that time, the city was defended by Afghan forces battling largely without NATO's support.
"It's more of an offensive nature to that operation that we're assisting," Nicholson told reporters in Bagram.
Americans have been backing up Afghan troops fighting Taliban militants in other hotly contested regions, including Uruzgan and Maiwand in Kandahar province in the south.
"I think all the uses have been right in line with the intended purpose that the president gave us," Nicholson said.
The Taliban have made major gains and are estimated to control more territory than at any time since they were driven from power by a U.S.-led campaign in 2001 aimed at dismantling al Qaeda and denying it safe haven in Afghanistan.
But after a difficult year in 2015, when the insurgents briefly captured Kunduz, Afghan and international officials say government troops have succeeded in stabilizing the situation to a large extent.
Carter, who met both Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah as well as senior U.S. military commanders, said it was "critical" that the national unity government formed after disputed elections in 2014 maintained stability.
Ghani thanked the United States as well as other NATO allies who last week pledged to maintain support for Afghanistan. He also praised Afghan forces, who he said had been "standing tall" since the departure of foreign combat forces.
MISRATA, Libya (Reuters) - Libyan forces allied with the U.N.-backed government have been shelling and carrying out air strikes on the center of Sirte city in a siege of Islamic State militants there, an official said on Tuesday.
Militants defending Islamic State's last stronghold in Libya have been keeping Libyan forces back with sniper fire and mortars in Sirte where they are now surrounded after a two month campaign to take the city.
The fall of Sirte would be a major blow to Islamic State, which took over the city a year ago in the chaos of a civil war between rival factions who once battled Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.
"Our forces have...targeted militants with artillery and air force around Ouagadougou complex, Ghiza Asskariya district, and in the city center," said Rida Issa, spokesman for Misrata forces fighting in Sirte.
"They have targeted Islamic State members, vehicles, ammunition stores, and control rooms."
He said one Misrata fighter was killed and 20 others wounded in a mortar strike on their position in the Zaafran frontline, near the roundabout where Islamic State once crucified victims.
The bodies of around 13 Islamic State fighters were found, but Misrata forces were driven back by sniper fire.
Western powers are backing Prime Minister Fayaz Seraj's government that moved into Tripoli three months ago in an attempt to unify two rival governments and various armed factions. Seraj is working with a unified National Oil Corporation to restart the oil industry.
But while powerful brigades from Misrata city support Seraj for now and lead the fight to liberate Sirte, other hardliners to the east are still opposing him and his government has made little progress in extending its influence.
After a rapid success in driving Islamic State back from a coastal strip of territory it controlled, the battle for Sirte has slowed to street-by-street fighting as Misrata forces clear out residential areas.
Misrata commanders say a few hundreds militants are dug in around the Ouagadougou complex, the university and a city hospital. They are cautious of advancing rapidly after more than 200 fighters died in the campaign so far.
While forces from the city of Misrata are fighting Islamic State in Sirte, rival brigades allied to Gen. Khalifa Haftar's Libyan National Army are fighting to the east on another front in Benghazi and around another eastern town. Haftar's hardline backers reject Seraj's government.
JUBA (Reuters) - People emerged from makeshift shelters in South Sudan's capital on Tuesday after a ceasefire silenced days of heavy fighting that has destabilised the world's newest nation.
Forces loyal to President Salva Kiir and Vice President Riek Machar had battled each other with anti-aircraft guns, attack helicopters and tanks since Thursday -- almost five years to the day since South Sudan declared independence from Sudan with promises of aid and support from world powers.
"We don't even know what is happening. These things, they just happen again and again, and the people of South Sudan are suffering. We need peace," Samson Kenyi, a 34-year-old motorcycle taxi rider said in the capital, Juba.
The violence has raised fears of a collapse of a nearly one-year-old peace deal that was supposed to end two years of ethnically charged civil war between Kiir and Machar's supporters.
Both leaders deny responsibility for starting the violence and had called for calm while it raged, leading to concerns that they have lost control of their forces or other political actors may be involved.
A ceasefire called on Monday night appeared to hold and officials from Machar's side said he was ready for talks. But there were no details of a meeting or an accord.
Shops were shut and residents said some of the civilians who ventured out were walking down Juba's dusty streets towards U.N. bases, where thousands have already sought safety during the clashes.
"Some of the many displaced from the recent fighting have come out to stretch their legs a little bit. They are in the streets. They are not moving far," said Jeremiah Young, a policy and peace-building adviser for aid group World Vision.
As well as fleeing to U.N. bases, other Juba residents had huddled in churches and schools to escape the fighting.
"The humanitarian needs are going to be very great after this," Young added by telephone. "They are going to need food, they are going to need shelter, they are going to need water."
The United Nations called for protection of those uprooted by fighting and easy movement of humanitarian supplies.
The African Union said anyone violating the ceasefire would "be subjected to stern measures, including targeted sanctions".
The European Union and United States previously imposed sanctions on several military leaders on both sides. But world powers and regional states have struggled in the past to find much leverage over the two men and their forces.
The rival leaders, who have long fought in politics and on the battlefield, could meet or hold telephone talks to shore up the ceasefire, Machar's spokesman, James Gatdek Dak, said.
He said it was not clear when such talks might take place, and that a venue had to be agreed.
"Machar is committed to implementation of the peace agreement. If Kiir can reciprocate I believe they can build confidence," he said. "If one party is not committed to implementation of the peace agreement, I doubt that they will successfully agree to work together."
An international body, the JMEC, was set up to monitor the ceasefire and peace deal implementation, and it is chaired by Festus Mogae, a former president of Botswana. Machar's spokesman said the JMEC was mediating. The JMEC had no immediate comment.
The civil war, which broke out in December 2013 after Kiir sacked Machar, killed thousands of people, drove more than 2.5 million people from their homes and left almost half the nation of 11 million struggling to find enough food.
Oil production, a vital revenue source for the impoverished nation, has plummeted. Fighting often followed ethnic lines, pitting Machar's Nuer group against Kiir's Dinka.
Kiir's officials have said the president is committed to working with Machar to implement a peace deal to end that conflict. It was signed in August 2015 but was followed by months of wrangling over details and sporadic fighting around the country.
Machar returned to Juba in April, retaking the post of vice president, a move seen as a step towards securing the peace.
But the relationship between the rivals remains brittle and experts say the failure to implement elements of the peace deal, such as integrating their rival forces, has increased the chance of further fighting.
Machar's side says the flare-up on Thursday, which led to the street battles, was triggered by the shooting of one of the vice president's officers.
The United States has condemned the violence and said it would hold those who commit atrocities or impede efforts to stop the fighting "fully accountable".
The U.N. Security Council has demanded Kiir and Machar rein in their forces and said attacks on civilians or U.N. bases, which were hit in the exchange of fire, could amount to war crimes that would need investigation.
MADRID (Reuters) - The small, liberal Ciudadanos party will neither back nor block a government led by Spain's conservative People's Party (PP), leader Albert Rivera said on Tuesday, his most flexible stance yet after months of political deadlock and a repeat election.
The PP won a general election in June, the second in six months, but did not secure a majority. Its leader, acting Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, must therefore convince other parties to join a coalition government or to at least abstain from a vote of confidence that could block it.
Spain's political scene has fragmented in recent years as upstart parties, including Ciudadanos, formed in the wake of Europe-imposed austerity measures during an economic crisis.
"We are not going to be in the government, nor are we going to support it," said Rivera, whose market-friendly party lost seats in the second vote. He said his party still had to decide how to vote on any investiture vote for Rajoy on Wednesday.
However, Rivera said there should be no repeat of the long-winded negotiations to form a government of the last six months and said he was ready to doing his part to solve the deadlock.
"We all have to give in on something. Given the election results, we cannot still be going on like this 18 days afterwards. We have to change and form a government as soon as possible," Rivera said.
His stance was more conciliatory than previous statements from Ciudadanos, which last week also dropped its veto of a PP-led administration if Rajoy was at its head.
Ciudadanos came fourth in June's election, grabbing 32 seats. This is not enough to enable on its own any majority or minority PP government, but an abstention would increase pressure on the Socialists, who came second with 85 seats, to follow suit.
The Socialist party has so far said it would not support a PP government or abstain from a vote of confidence, but analysts believe they could change their mind in order to avoid a third election.
BERLIN/BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Both are pastors' daughters who excelled as academics before rising to the top of their conservative parties. Now Theresa May and Angela Merkel, equally firm but pragmatic, will go head to head to determine Britain's future relationship with Europe.
Two years the German chancellor's junior, May is highly regarded among European officials who largely welcomed news that she will become British prime minister on Wednesday after David Cameron bows out.
"Very disciplined" is how one senior German official who has worked closely with May described the Oxford University-educated daughter of a Church of England vicar. She has "excellent" relations with French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, a source in Paris said.
Described by one veteran British conservative as a "bloody difficult woman", 59-year-old May will need to muster all the goodwill she can in Europe.
Her task is to deal with the negotiating clout and stamina of Merkel, who in 10 years as chancellor has regularly outlasted other European Union leaders at late night Brussels meetings.
Under the Lisbon Treaty, a deal on Britain's departure from the EU must be concluded with the European Council, which groups leaders of the 27 other member states.
Merkel's role, however, is crucial. After Britons voted for Brexit on June 23, she met the leaders of France and Italy to plan the way ahead for the EU, showing that its biggest member states - rather than its institutions - want to determine this.
Both women, who have been married for decades, saw off male challengers on their way to the top.
Merkel defeated her more flamboyant predecessor, the Social Democrat Gerhard Schroeder, at the ballot box in 2005.
May, who has been British interior minister for the past six years, will become prime minister simply because Conservative members of parliament elected her leader of the ruling party.  But the woman who has declared "I'm not a showy politician", is also replacing a less cautious politician in the pro-EU Cameron, whose gamble in calling the referendum failed.
Merkel and May agree on one thing: in the Briton's words "Brexit means Brexit". Merkel has insisted the result of what was officially an advisory referendum must be respected.
Beyond that, battle lines are already being drawn. May says Britain will not rush to trigger the formal divorce proceedings under the Lisbon Treaty. Merkel, however, wants Britain to make its intentions clear more quickly.
On Tuesday, Merkel put the ball in May's court. "We must now wait until Britain says what relationship it envisages with the European Union and then we will lead, in our interests, the best negotiations for our citizens in the 27 member states," she said.
The chancellor wants to retain strong links with Britain, Germany's fifth-biggest trading partner for goods, but her bigger priority is to hold together the remaining EU members.
British diplomats who have worked with May in Brussels rate her highly, saying she is one of the best prepared and best informed ministers to negotiate with their EU partners. Their European counterparts agree.
"She knows Brussels well, she knows the people and how things work here," said one EU official who deals with justice and home affairs. "She has always been prepared for the meetings, active in intervening, she knows the file."
Another senior EU official familiar with negotiations in which May has taken part described her as "very professional, very well respected".
All the indications are May will prove a tough negotiator.  "She won't be an easy partner for the EU," said the senior EU official, adding that May does not change her tune easily. "She's been extremely consistent, very persistent."
A quiet 'remain' campaigner, May must now get the best terms she can. Her biggest task is to retain British access to the EU's single market while restricting immigration from the bloc.
EU leaders say market access can come only with a commitment to the free movement of people - just what British voters rejected. Yet May has a record of negotiating compromises with the EU in such apparently black or white situations.
As interior minister, she opted back into a European arrest warrant system and cross-border information sharing despite Britain's 'opt out' on EU justice and home affairs policy.
In brokering those 'opt-ins', the senior EU official said: "She took a great part in the negotiations herself, she didn't rely on officials ... She has very obvious negotiating skills."
Those skills will be put to the test by Merkel, who said on Monday: "We will have difficult negotiations with Britain, it will not be easy."
ROME (Reuters) - The mayor of a small town outside Naples had to shut down most municipal offices after police arrested 23 of his staff on Tuesday in the latest revelations of absenteeism in Italy's public sector.
Police arrested around half of all employees in the town hall offices of Boscotrecase following a weeks-long investigation which they said revealed 200 cases of absenteeism involving 30 people.
Staff were filmed clocking in and then leaving to go about their personal business or using multiple swipe cards to register absent colleagues, in scenes which have become familiar after numerous similar scandals.
A police video showed one man trying to tamper with a security camera and then putting a cardboard box over his head to hide his identity before swiping two cards.
"I'll probably have to shut down the town hall," Pietro Carotenuto, elected just a month ago as mayor of the town of 11,000 people, told Sky Italia.
He said four major town hall departments had been closed on Tuesday due to a lack of staff. Those arrested, accused of fraud against the state, included the head of the local traffic police and the head of the town's accounting department.
The workers, clearly undeterred by a recently announced  government crackdown against absenteeism, have been suspended from work for between six and 12 months and risk eventual dismissal.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - U.N. Security Council veto power Russia said on Tuesday it was willing to consider imposing an arms embargo on South Sudan and that sending more troops could help stabilise the world's newest nation after days of heavy fighting in the capital Juba.
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Monday called for the 15-member Security Council to impose an arms embargo on the oil-producing nation, a move backed by the United States, France, Britain, Angola and other council members.
Russia said in January it was against an arms embargo, but on Tuesday Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said that he was "not completely opposed" to the measure, though he was wary of whether it would actually achieve anything.
"We could do an arms embargo tomorrow and nothing will change so we need to have a comprehensive view of the situation," Churkin told reporters. "An arms embargo is not a magic wand, a recipe for averting the worst there. So we need to give some serious thought to what can be done."
"We're not completely opposed ... it's definitely a very difficult situation, so together with other members of the Security Council we are thinking about what can be done," he said.
A day-old ceasefire appeared to be holding on Tuesday, barring sporadic gunfire, the United Nations said.
Forces loyal to South Sudan's President Salva Kiir and Vice President Riek Machar had battled each other with anti-aircraft guns, attack helicopters and tanks since Thursday, almost five years to the day since South Sudan declared independence from Sudan with promises of aid and support from world powers.
Kiir and Machar have wrangled for months over implementing a peace deal the pair signed in August to end a brutal civil war, which broke out in December 2013 after Kiir sacked Machar.
The Security Council said on Sunday it was ready to consider enhancing the U.N. peace-keeping mission in South Sudan and urged countries in the region to prepare to send additional troops if the council decides to increase the nearly 13,500-strong force.
"I think it's quite likely," said Churkin.
"If there are those who are prepared to send more troops then something needs to be done in order to try and stabilise the situation and protect the population, which is of course on the receiving end of this whole disaster," he said.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Egyptian authorities said on Tuesday Muslim clerics would be required to read out identical pre-written weekly sermons as part of the government's campaign against extremism, drawing angry criticism from some preachers.
The ministry of religious endowments has since 2014 been providing imams with topics for their sermons at Friday prayers but the latest move confines preachers across the country to reading from the same script.
"No one disagreed during the meeting (of officials on Tuesday) and all the undersecretaries received the new instructions on pre-written unified sermons without incident," said the ministry's First Undersecretary for Qalyubiya province Sabry Dowaidar.
"The minister (Mohamed Gomaa) said he would start with himself and deliver the pre-written sermon (in a mosque) next Friday."
An undersecretary from a different province who requested anonymity said the sermons would be written by ministry officials and senior clerics from Al-Azhar, the 1,000-year-old centre of Islamic learning in Cairo.
Members of parliament on the House Committee on Religious Affairs would contribute too, as would sociologists and psychologists.
Officials say the move will force preachers to stick to a suitable time limit and ensure they do not "lose their train of thought".
Several preachers voiced anger at the move, saying it would prevent talented preachers from shining and that different communities had different issues of interest that needed to be discussed in the mosque.
"Everywhere in Egypt, every city or village, has different circumstances. A certain village might have a robbery problem and so the sermon should talk about thievery. Another place might have widespread murder and that is what should be discussed," said Abdelsalam Mahmoud, an imam at a mosque in the southern city of Luxor.
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who came to power after leading the military overthrow of an Islamist president, has made "reforming religious discourse" and combating extremism a priority. He sees militant Islamism as an existential threat.
In 2013 the religious endowments ministry fired 55,000 preachers not authorised by Al-Azhar, shortly after the military ousted the Muslim Brotherhood's Mohamed Mursi from the presidency, following mass protests against his rule.
The preachers were accused of inciting violence and spreading extremist views and supporting the Brotherhood, the world's oldest Islamist movement.
The government does not differentiate between groups like the Brotherhood, which says it is peaceful, and Islamic State which is mounting an insurgency in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula and has killed hundreds of soldiers and police.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China is dedicated to maintaining peace and stability in the South China Sea but will not accept any positions or actions based on the outcome of the arbitration case over the dispute, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday.
HANOI (Reuters) - Vietnam welcomed a ruling by an international arbitration court concerning the South China Sea on Tuesday, saying it strongly supports peaceful resolution of disputes, while reasserting its own sovereignty claims.
"Vietnam welcomes the arbitration court issuing its final ruling," foreign ministry spokesman, Le Hai Binh, said in a statement.
"Vietnam strongly supports the resolution of the disputes in the South China Sea by peaceful means, including diplomatic and legal processes and  refraining from the use or threats to use force, in accordance with international law."
The ministry said it would issue a more detailed comment on the content of the ruling at a later time and reasserted Vietnam's claim of sovereignty over the Paracel and Spratly island, and its jurisdiction over its Exclusive Economic Zone.
CAIRO (Reuters) - An Egyptian police officer was sentenced to seven years in jail and five other policemen to three years on Tuesday for beating to death a father of four, a case that has fuelled public anger about perceived police brutality.
Talaat Shabib al-Rashidi was one of at least three men who died in police custody in the space of a single week in November 2015, prompting riots in his southern home town of Luxor and rare media scrutiny of police methods.
The court acquitted three officers and seven conscripts and ordered the interior minister to pay Rashidi's wife 1.5 million Egyptian pounds ($168,921). The sentence can be appealed.
Human rights groups say police brutality is widespread in Egypt. They allege a culture of impunity in which police are rarely held to account over accusations of torture of suspects and have called for an independent body to investigate.
The interior ministry has said it would investigate all abuse allegations and prosecutors are questioning those involved in the recent deaths.
Public anger over allegations of police brutality has been bubbling over the past months, with several incidents spilling over into skirmishes and protests, five years after the ministry's officers were a major focus of a 2011 uprising.
An end to police brutality was one of the key demands of the uprising which ended Hosni Mubarak's 30-year rule. Unlike in the past, the families of those who have died in custody have been vocal in their demands for transparent investigations.
Prosecutors had ordered the trial in December after a coroners report found Rashidi had received blows to the back and neck that had broken vertebrae and severed his spine.
Rashidi was picked up by police at a cafe in Luxor and was dead within hours.
Police accused him of dealing in drugs. His family deny that and a cousin said they had been seeking redress days after Rashidi was involved in a public spat with a policeman.
They said Rashidi, in his 40s, worked in a tourist bazaar but had fallen on hard times as the 2011 uprising had hit tourism.
A riot erupted in a Cairo suburb in April when a policeman shot three people after an argument over the price of a cup of tea and killed one of them.
In February, a policeman shot dead a driver in the street in an argument over a fare, prompting hundreds to protest outside the Cairo security directorate.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Two Indian ministers resigned on Tuesday, a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi expanded his powerful inner circle to improve the efficiency of his administration.
India's president, on Modi's advice, has accepted the resignations of Najma A. Heptulla, the minister of minority affairs, and G.M. Siddeshwara, the junior minister of heavy industries, the government said in a statement.
Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, a junior minister in the minority affairs ministry, has been given independent charge of the ministry, while Babul Supriyo, a singer-turned-politician, would take up the junior minister's portfolio in the heavy industries ministry, the statement added.
The government did not give a reason for the decision.
Modi inducted 19 new ministers into his cabinet last Tuesday to bolster his two-year-old administration but drew criticism that he was backtracking on a promise of lean government.
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - A ceasefire in South Sudan's capital Juba appears to be "largely holding, barring sporadic gunfire" and United Nations peacekeepers were able to carry out a limited number of short patrols on Tuesday, a U.N. spokesman said in New York.
"(The U.N. mission) also reports that the airport in the capital has been reopened, although commercial flights remain suspended," U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. law enforcement official, under questioning from Republicans at a congressional hearing on Tuesday, shed no new light on the Justice Department's decision not to prosecute Hillary Clinton over her handling of sensitive emails.
Attorney General Loretta Lynch deflected questions about the department's inquiry into Clinton's use of a private email system while she was secretary of state, an issue that has hounded her campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination.
Republicans grilled Lynch at the House of Representatives committee hearing over Justice's decision not to charge Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee for the Nov. 8 election.
"Lynch has no intention of answering ... even the most basic questions about the legal elements the government is obligated to prove in a criminal prosecution," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Republican.
Democratic lawmakers at the hearing largely avoided the subject, asking Lynch about gun control and policing reforms.
Lynch referred questions about the department's decision to an FBI-led investigative team that recommended not bringing charges. She said she was "extremely proud" of the team's work, testifying one week after the FBI closed its year-long probe.
The emails case is a favorite target for presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, as well as other Republican politicians.
Goodlatte and Republican Representative Jason Chaffetz asked the Justice Department on Monday to investigate whether Clinton committed perjury in testimony to Congress about the emails.
Other investigations continue. At least one federal judge is seeking to establish whether Clinton set up the email system to thwart laws governing the public's access to official records. Judge Emmet Sullivan of the district court in Washington, who is overseeing a lawsuit accusing the State Department of not complying with records requests by the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch, is considering whether to order that Clinton give testimony about the system under oath.
Clinton's lawyers argued against her having to testify in court papers filed on Tuesday, saying she had no more information to provide that was not already in the public record and that the Justice Department still had her emails and computer equipment. Judge Sullivan is due to rule on whether to order the deposition after a hearing next Monday.
FBI Director James Comey told a congressional hearing last week he recommended against charging Clinton because there was insufficient evidence that she acted with bad intent. He added that any of his employees who handled emails the way Clinton did could be subject to dismissal or loss of security clearance.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A group of fashion brands and retailers including Gap and Wal Mart working to improve safety in Bangladeshi factories, are still committed to sourcing from the country despite a series of attacks claimed by Islamist militants.
"Member companies will continue to stay the course," James Moriarty, country director for the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, told a conference call for journalists. "I am not aware of brands withdrawing or cancelling contracts."
The Alliance of mostly North American companies was set up in 2013 to improve safety in Bangladeshi factories after the collapse of the Rana Plaza complex in which more than 1,100 people died.
Some foreign companies working in Bangladesh's garment industry have suspended travel to the country after an attack by Islamist militants on a restaurant in Dhaka on July 1.
The U.S. State Department on Monday warned Americans to consider carefully whether they need to travel to Bangladesh.
"The advice from most embassies is to keep as low a profile as possible," said Moriarty, a former U.S. ambassador to Bangladesh, who said he had returned to Dhaka on Saturday.
Moriarty said many major brands were holding off on sending foreign staff to the country, although most had Bangladeshi or South Asian staff leading their operations in the country.
"I do have confidence that the people who are committing these attacks are a very small minority with very small support," he said.
Moriarty said the Alliance - set to run until 2018 - was ahead of schedule in improving safety at the some 700 factories its 28 members work with in Bangladesh, calling the safety drive a "moral imperative".
In the first quarter of 2016, the Alliance suspended another six factories for failing to do enough to improve safety, bringing the total to 83, while Moriarty said 28 factories have completed plans to address safety issues.
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's government warned protesters on Tuesday they would face the "full wrath of the law" if they heeded a call by a detained preacher to continue with the biggest demonstrations in a decade against President Robert Mugabe.
Baptist minister Evan Mawarire has become a household name in Zimbabwe since he started a social media campaign in April that has tapped into mounting public anger over corruption, high unemployment and economic woes.
In a video recorded before his arrest on Tuesday, Mawarire urged supporters to go ahead with further 'stay at home' demonstrations. He had called for a one-day protest last week which closed businesses across the southern African nation in the biggest strike since 2005.
"The police whose mandate is to protect life and property will be out in full force to deal with any disturbances that may arise," Home Affairs Minister Ignatius Chombo told reporters.
"Let me warn the instigators behind the intended protests that they will face the full wrath of the law," said Chombo, flanked by the ministers of defence and state security.
Chombo said there were no plans to deploy the military.
Mugabe, Africa's oldest leader at 92, has led the former British colony since independence in 1980. Since then it has gone from being one of the continent's most promising economies to being a country mired in economic crisis with a reputation for rights abuses.
After initially ignoring his grainy online videos, shot on a cellphone and calling for mass protests, Mugabe's administration has started to push back, especially after they attracted support from thousands of unpaid civil servants.
"Yes, he has been arrested for inciting public violence and disturbing peace," Mawarire lawyer Harrison Nkomo told Reuters. He said police had raided his client's Harare home, office and church.
Police spokeswoman Charity Charamba was not available to comment on the charges.
A copy of a search warrant seen by Reuters said police believed Mawarire was in possession of a stolen police helmet, baton stick and "other subversive material" that could be used to incite public violence.
The law under which the bespectacled 39-year-old has been detained carries a prison sentence of up to 10 years. According to Zimbabwean law, he must appear in court within 48 hours. He was summoned by police early on Tuesday morning.
Mawarire said he broke no law in calling for the one-day shut-down last Wednesday.
International Crisis Group analyst Piers Pigou said Mawarire's #ThisFlag movement had rattled Mugabe's government but was still a long way from becoming the first "Arab Spring" south of the Sahara.
"It's provoked a certain amount of panic from the authorities given the scale of the stay-away," Pigou said. "But a stay-away doesn't translate into active support for rebellion against the regime."
More protests are planned for Wednesday and Thursday as part of #ThisFlag, which aims to appeal to Zimbabweans' national pride and exploit the widespread use of social media in the country.
In a pre-recorded video posted on Twitter under the #ThisFlag hashtag after he was charged, Mawarire said his arrest should not stop Zimbabwe's 13 million people going ahead with demonstrations.
"No matter what has happened to me, you and I have done well. We have stood up and raised our voices to build this nation," Mawarire said.
Last Friday police summoned and arrested Prosper Mkwananzi from social media group Tajamuka - meaning 'We refuse' - on charges of public violence. Mkwananzi was released on bail on Monday.
Mawarire launched #ThisFlag in April after struggling to pay school fees for his two daughters or bus fares. His complaints struck an immediate chord with Zimbabweans and 120,000 people watched his video in its first week.
Within three months, some have even started likening him and his adherence to non-violence to Indian anti-colonial hero Mahatma Gandhi, who started becoming politically active as a lawyer in neighbouring South Africa in the early 1900s.
"There is nothing wrong from learning from the people like Gandhi because they achieved a lot of things in pushing the non-violent aspect of things," Mawarire said in an interview with the Zimbabwe Independent newspaper this month.
"If we fight violence with violence, the result will be more violence," he said. "There comes a time when we have to use a different strategy to that being used by the people we are confronting."
ARUSHA, Tanzania (Reuters) - Representatives of five opposition parties that participated in Burundi's general election boycotted the second round of peace talks in the northern Tanzanian city of Arusha on Tuesday.
Burundi has been mired in crisis that has killed more than 450 people since President Pierre Nkurunziza pursued and won a third term last year. Opponents said his move violated the constitution and a peace deal that ended a civil war in 2005.
Dialogue in Bujumbura last year between the government and opponents failed to bridge differences, and talks mediated by Uganda earlier this year also swiftly stalled.
The five parties were unhappy over the decision of the mediator, former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa, to invite Burundians accused of human rights violations and involvement in an attempted coup against Nkurunzinza in May 2015.
The five parties, FNL, FROLINA, PIEBU ABANYESHAKA, RADEBU and FRODEBU are concerned by the inclusion of Pacifique Nininahazwe of FOCODE party, Armel Ningoyere from ACT party in Burundi and Minani Jean in the dialogue.
"We are very surprised by their inclusion in the dialogue after all the humanitarian crisis they caused in Burundi," Jean Didier Mutabazi, RADEBU's president, told reporters at the venue of the talks.
"We don't see the point of continuing with the dialogue."
The government in Bujumbura also expressed its unhappiness over the inclusion of some participants with Willy Nyamitwe, Nkurunziza's communications adviser, complaining on Twitter.
"Jean Minani, Nininahazwe Pacifique, Armel Niyongere are being prosecuted and can't be invited in Burundi dialogue in Arusha," Nyamitwe wrote.     Earlier in the day, three former presidents of Burundi were seen walking out of a closed session chaired by Mkapa.
Domitien Ndayizeye, Sylvester Ntibatunganya and Pierre Buyoya demanded the arrest of Ninihazwe, and the other two wanted in Burundi, a source in the Burundian delegation said.
Arusha was also the location for negotiations that led to the deal to end the ethnically charged 1993 to 2005 civil war in Burundi.
Renewed violence in Burundi has alarmed a region where memories of the Rwanda's 1994 genocide remain raw. Like Rwanda, Burundi has an ethnic Hutu majority and a Tutsi minority.
Till now, the violence in Burundi has largely followed political rather than ethnic loyalties. But diplomats fear ethnic wounds could reopen the longer violence continues.
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE (Reuters) - The White House said on Tuesday that an arbitration court ruling that China has no historic title over the waters of the South China Sea should be treated as final and binding.
"We certainly would urge all parties not to use this as an opportunity to engage in escalatory or provocative action," White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters in a briefing.
(Reuters) - Two bailiffs were shot dead during a scuffle with a prisoner turned gunman inside a southwest Michigan courthouse on Monday that also wounded two people before police officers killed the shooter, a county sheriff said.
Larry Darnell Gordon, 44, fatally shot bailiffs identified as Joseph Zangaro, a retired Michigan state police lieutenant, and Ron Kienzle, a retired Benton Township police sergeant, the Detroit Free Press newspaper reported.
The shootings of the bailiffs and the deputy came four days after four Dallas police officers and a Dallas transit police officer were killed by a sniper who claimed to be motivated by the use of lethal force by police against African-Americans.
Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey told a news conference that the shooting took place at about 2:25 p.m. local time on the third floor of the St. Joseph, Michigan, courthouse.
Bailey said Gordon was a prisoner who took a gun from one of two bailiffs escorting him to a courtroom and then began shooting as he tried to escape from custody. A sheriff's deputy and civilian were also wounded, he said.
"Our hearts are torn apart. They were our friends," Bailey told reporters. "It's a sad day."
Bailey said the deputy and civilian who were shot were taken to hospital and were expected to survive.
The suspect was shot and killed by police officers, he said.
Chris Gautz, public information officer for the Michigan Department of Corrections, said on Twitter all Department of Corrections staff were safe and accounted for.
A witness, Gretta Volkenstein, told CNN that buildings and government agencies in the area were placed on lockdown as the incident unfolded.
It was not immediately known why the prisoner was being escorted to the courtroom but Bailey said that was being investigated.
"MSP (Michigan State Police) has secured the scene at the Berrien County courthouse and started its investigation into the shooting that occurred this afternoon," Governor Rick Snyder said on Twitter.
Bailey said the courthouse would be closed on Tuesday.
St. Joseph is a town in southwest Michigan, across Lake Michigan from Chicago.
(Reuters) - The gunman who opened fire in a Michigan courthouse on Monday, killing two bailiffs and injuring a civilian and a sheriff's deputy before being shot dead, was an inmate who stole a firearm from a law enforcement officer, the county Sheriff said.
The shooter, who has not been identified, was able to break free from a Berrien County sheriff's deputy and a bailiff in a corridor leading to the courtroom and shot them both, Sheriff Paul Bailey said.
The gunman also fatally shot another bailiff and wounded a civilian before being shot dead by responding law enforcement officers, Bailey said. The deputy and civilian were both being treated at an area hospital, he added.
GAO, Mali (Reuters) - Malian soldiers opened fire on anti-government demonstrators in the northern city of Gao on Tuesday, killing three and wounding at least 31, two doctors at a hospital that received the bodies told Reuters.
The protesters were angry about the introduction of a new interim authority set to take charge of the region on Friday, which they said would give power to armed groups and would not benefit local people.
The Malian government did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
A year ago the government signed a peace deal with Tuareg-led rebels aimed at ending a long conflict that has destabilised the desert country and made it a base for violent jihad. There are signs the pact is unravelling.
The government and the rebel alliance - Coordination of Azawad Movements (CMA) - accuse each other of stalling on implementation and the rebels complain that the U.N.-backed deal falls short of their demands.
Thousands of protesters gathered in the streets of Gao, marching to the central police station and surrounding it on Tuesday. Many young people had knives, a Reuters witness said.
Protesters set fire to tyres, filling the air with acrid smoke, and pelted the police with stones. Security forces attempted to disperse the crowd with tear gas then the military opened fire, killing three people and wounding dozens.
"Look, I was shot in my arm and foot," said a man running away from the crowd, nursing bleeding wounds.
Shooting had stopped and much of the crowd had been dispersed by 11 a.m. (1200 BST), but a heavy military presence continued to patrol the streets.
The United Nations Security Council decided last week to add 2,500 peacekeepers to the mission in Mali in order to "move to a more proactive and robust posture" in the fight against militancy, the resolution said.
French forces intervened in 2013 to drive back Islamist fighters who had hijacked the Tuareg uprising to seize Mali's desert north in 2012. The militants have since reorganized and launched a wave of attacks.
UMUAHIA, Nigeria (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Four months after giving birth in Umuahia, the capital of Nigeria's southeastern Abia state, 23-year-old single mother Amarachi Amadi is still in hospital with her baby girl.
While the mother and her daughter are in good health, they are not allowed to leave the public hospital until Amadi settles the 543,000 naira ($1,900) bill for their care.
Amadi, who makes a living selling stones to construction workers for 40 naira ($0.15) per sack, fears she may never be able to clear her debt - leaving her and her baby trapped in the Umuahia Federal Medical Centre (FMC) for the foreseeable future.
"I have really suffered ... and they do not allow me to go out," said Amadi, who relies on her mother to bring food into the hospital and to help her care for her baby, Oluebubechi.
New mothers like Amadi are stuck in maternity wards across Nigeria - forbidden from leaving until their debts are settled.
Known as Awaiting Bill Settlement (ABS) patients, these women are responsible for looking after and feeding themselves and their newborns.
Few Nigerians have health insurance, leaving many patients clinging to the hope their bills will be waived by hospital directors or covered by visiting well-wishers.
Meanwhile, whenever the maternity ward at the hospital is full, many ABS patients are forced to sleep on the floor.
"Sometimes, we place all the babies on one bed while the mothers sleep in chairs," said one nurse, who asked not to be named as she was not authorized by the hospital to speak.
"Some babies have stayed here until they started crawling,"  the nurse said, adding that some mothers had managed to escape the hospital with their babies when no one was watching.
Like Amadi, nine other nursing mothers in the FMC's maternity ward are stuck in limbo, having been discharged by the doctors but trapped within the hospital grounds by their debts.
Janet Moses, 19, said the father of her twin boys had stopped visiting or answering her calls over the past month. She believes he has been scared off by the bill.
No one visits Moses or brings her food, so she depends on other patients to share their meals with her.
Other patients on the ward are slightly more fortunate.
Adaku Mmaduabuchi, a 25-year-old housewife who gave birth to her first child in May, is brought meals daily by her husband.
But they too have been struggling to pay off their debt.
"I have been phoning my friends and relatives to see if anyone can lend me the money," said her husband, Ihunze, who has so far only paid a third of the 200,000 naira ($700) they owe.
There are a large number of ABS patients at the FMC due to the hospital's policy of treating every patient who arrives, regardless of whether they can afford to pay upfront for their treatment, said Chuku Abali, the director of the hospital.
Abali said he frequently waives the bills of the hospital's patients, many of whom are nursing mothers, with amounts ranging from 10,000 naira ($35) to 1.5 million naira ($5,300).
"But if we continue to run on charity, we will fold. Things have to be paid for," Abali told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Many patients wait in the hope that philanthropists, who sometimes visit during Easter and Christmas holidays, will clear their debts when they next visit, the hospital director said.
"We also conduct investigations to find out if patients have any relatives who can afford to pay, then we write to them."
Other hospitals, like the University College Hospital (UCH) in the southwestern city of Ibadan, are taking a more novel approach when it comes to dealing with their ABS patients.
The UCH has set up a fund which allows hospital staff to make voluntary monthly contributions from their salaries toward  patients' bills. Abandoned teenage mothers are given priority.
Yet these contributions alone are not enough to solve the problem, said Adefemi Afolabi, the UCH's deputy director.
"There is no day I get to my table without seeing letters from people applying for cancellation of bills," Afolabi said.
The health ministry announced plans earlier this year to build 10,000 health clinics across the country, which could provide maternity care at a lower cost, according to Afolabi.
"The government also needs to extend the National Health Insurance Scheme so it goes to the grassroots," he said. "Only government workers and some private workers are entitled to it."
The Nigerian health ministry was not available for comment.
Back at the FMC's maternity ward, the mothers talk about the day when they will finally be free to go home with their babies.
But 25-year-old Blessing Godfrey has no such hope.
The student was rushed to the hospital after she fell unconscious when her baby was born unexpectedly.
Godfrey woke up on the ward to learn that her baby had died. Two weeks later, the grieving mother is still in hospital, discharged but unable to settle her 19,000 naira ($67) bill.
Her mother, a widow, makes very little selling vegetables, while her boyfriend, also a student, denies he is the father.
"There is no one to assist me," Godfrey said.
DAR ES SALAAM (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A landmark court ruling raising the legal age of marriage for girls in Tanzania to 18 will have little impact in ending child marriage if parents continue to marry off their daughters for bride price rather than educating them, campaigners said.
Tanzania's High Court ruled last Friday that two sections of the 1971 Marriage Act that allow girls to marry at 15 with parental consent and 14 with the permission of a court, were unconstitutional.
The move came barely a week after the East African country, which has one of the highest rates of child marriage globally, made it an offence for people to marry primary and secondary-school age girls punishable by up to 30 years in prison.
"This ruling is a headway toward solving the problem, but it cannot by itself be the solution to child marriages," said Hellen-Kijo Bisimba, a women's rights campaigners and lawyer with the Legal and Human Rights Centre.
She said more needed to be done to tackle poverty and change the perception that girls are an economic burden on their families or a commodity to be traded for bride price - or dowry.
"Unless the general population is sufficiently enlightened to reject outdated traditional customs and the government puts in place effective strategies to alleviate poverty, we can hardly solve this problem," Bisimba told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
The High Court ruling was made in response to a petition filed earlier this year by Rebecca Gyumi, founder of Msichana Initiative, a local charity promoting girls' rights.
The group argued that the Marriage Act violated girls' rights to equality, dignity and access to education as granted by the constitution.
"The victory should be taken as a beginning of a fresh battle to ensure that child marriage becomes history in our country," Gyumi wrote on her Facebook page.
Campaign group Girls Not Brides says nearly two in five girls in Tanzania are married before their 18th birthday.
It says the practice was particularly prevalent in rural areas where girls as young as 11 are married, although inaccurate birth and marriage records made it difficult to calculate exact figures of child marriage nationwide.
High Court Judge Ataula Munisi said the law was discriminatory and unfair because it allowed a girl of 14 to be married while males could only marry once they reach 18.
The court ordered the government to amend the Marriage Act within the next year and ruled that the legal marriage age for men and women should be recognised as 18 years.
Activists say ending child marriage hinges on raising more awareness about its impact on girls. Girl brides are often deprived of an education and face the increased risk of death or serious childbirth injuries if they have babies before their bodies are ready.
Tanzania has one of the highest adolescent pregnancy and birth rates in the world, and 21 percent of girls aged 15 to 19 have given birth, according to a 2015/16 survey by the Tanzania Bureau of Statistics.
In an editorial, leading independent newspaper, The Citizen, said parents endorsing marriage for their under-age daughters were "effectively giving away their offspring to a defiler".
"Ignorant parents should not be allowed to marry off their children on the basis of backward customs or religious beliefs," it said.
YAOUNDE (Thomson Reuters Foundation) -  A rise in Chinese companies operating in Cameroon’s timber sector, combined with weak law enforcement, have fuelled a surge in illegal logging that is fast depleting the nation's forests, experts warn.
But the government is hoping a new association it has set up for Chinese firms exploiting forests will strengthen links with officials and enable those companies to work within the law.
Every night, trucks laden with logs negotiate hundreds of kilometres of bumpy earth roads, headed to the port in Douala, Cameroon's commercial capital, where the wood – some of it logged illegally - is shipped to foreign markets.
“We have observed a surge in timber trade activities with the increased presence of Chinese business operators in the sector,” said Bernard Njonga, coordinator of Cameroon-based NGO Support Service for Local Development Initiatives (SAILD).
“The illegal forest exploitation and logging business has been compounded by weak laws applied to some groups of persons and not others,” he added.
Cameroon’s forest loss, as in other countries in the Congo Basin, has increased in recent years.
According to Global Forest Watch, an online forest monitoring platform, Cameroon lost 657,000 hectares (1,623,482 acres) of forest between 2001 and 2014, with the annual rate of loss rising to around 141,000 hectares in 2014.
“The government does not respect its own laws and many forest malpractices go unpunished,” said Augustine Njamnshi, Cameroon representative for the Pan African Climate Justice Alliance.
Joseph Armathe Amougou, focal point for the U.N. climate change secretariat in Cameroon, said “laws must be strictly respected” if forest governance reform was to yield results.
Cameroon’s government agrees there are some irregularities in the forestry sector, but says measures are in place to address the problem.
Bruno Mfou'ou Mfou'ou, director of forestry in the ministry of forestry and wildlife, said many Chinese timber firms and dealers cannot communicate well in French or English, so they use intermediaries who dupe and mislead them into illegal activities.
“We have realised these Chinese investors fall prey to dubious individuals,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation at the launch of the Chinese Forest Exploiters Association in Douala last month.
The association, established in collaboration with Chinese officials, will enable Chinese operators “to deal with the government directly”, he added.
Association spokesman Stephen Y.L. Chong said it would provide information and advice to members. “This will enable us to operate henceforth within the law in Cameroon,” he said.
Forest governance in Cameroon has been reinforced since 2012, with heavy sanctions against violators of the law, Mfou'ou Mfou'ou said.
He cited the suspension of 27 forest exploitation companies in 2012, followed by seven others in 2014, because they lacked the correct exploitation licenses, decisions made in line with the 1994 forestry law.
“We have the obligation to ensure the sustainability of our natural resources for future generations, and this is a collective responsibility of both the public and the government,” he said.
But authorities in some European states that import wood from Cameroon are not convinced its forest laws are being respected.
Cameroon was the main source of tropical wood imports to the European Union in 2014, at around a fifth of the total, followed closely by Malaysia, according to EU data.
Britain recently imposed, or warned of sanctions on 14 UK importers it believes to be sourcing wood from Cameroon linked to illegal logging, according to Greenpeace.
That followed a similar move by the Netherlands in March, demonstrating that timber from Cameroon is “coming under increasing scrutiny in international markets”, the green group said.
“Cameroon’s authorities must examine this new set of sanctions and start investigating the companies in question as a first step to tackle the illegality and corruption in the timber sector,” said Eric Ini, forest campaigner for Greenpeace Africa.
In 2009, Cameroon appointed an independent monitor, Agreco-CEW, to oversee forest concession allocations. But its recommendations are not always followed, according to Samuel Nguiffo, head of the Cameroon-based Centre for Environment and Development (CED).
A May report from Greenpeace, for example, said Cameroon timber exporter Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport (CCT) had sourced wood from La Socamba, a company logging several kilometres outside its designated area, which it sold in Europe and China.
CCT and its suppliers now face an audit, which has yet to be officially announced, Greenpeace said at the end of June.
Many Chinese-funded investments in Cameroon, such as a deep-water port in Kribi and mining projects in forested areas, have provided access to natural resources being exploited by both Chinese and Cameroonian firms to satisfy Asian demand, CED’s Nguiffo said.
He blamed China’s growing environmental footprint in Cameroon partly on the government’s heavy reliance on Chinese funding for infrastructure projects.
Since Cameroon launched an investment drive in 2010, China has become Cameroon’s prime partner, investing more than $400 million (304 million pounds) per year, according to statistics from the African nation's ministry of economy, planning and regional development.
About 80 percent of the Chinese loans are for infrastructure such as roads, hydro-electric dams and seaports.
“This dependence has made the country vulnerable and the laws are hardly enforced,” Nguiffo said.
In a June report, the World Bank noted that Cameroon’s debt levels had increased markedly and a 2015 analysis prepared with the International Monetary Fund put the country at high risk of debt distress.
The increase in debt is the result of large outlays to deal with security threats in Cameroon's north and a boom in public investments - for which it is not clear whether the necessary returns will be generated, the bank said.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African twins arrested over the weekend were planning attacks on the U.S. Embassy in the capital, Pretoria, as well as on buildings owned by Jewish people, police said on Monday.
Four South Africans, including the twins, Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie, faced charges in court ranging from conspiracy to firearms offences, the spokesman for the elite police unit Hawks, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, said.
The four, arrested in Johannesburg on Sunday, will be detained in custody until July 19, when their case will be heard, Mulaudzi said.
Quoting the charge sheet, the News24 news organisation said the twins had been attempting to fly to Syria. Security officials say there are no known militant groups operating in South Africa, but Britain and the United States warned in June of a high threat of attacks against foreigners in the country's shopping malls.
Mulaudzi named the other two siblings as Fatima and Ibrahim Mohammed Patel.
"The indictment does talk to issues of terror plots that they were planning against the U.S. Embassy as well as Jewish Buildings in the country," he said, referring to the twins.
"The twins have been charged with conspiracy," Mulaudzi added. "The Patel siblings have been charged with the violation of the Firearms Control Act for now."
The twins' preliminary charge sheet states that their conspiracy occurred between October 2015 and July 8 this year, local newspaper the Times said on its online service.
In Washington, State Department spokesman John Kirby said at a daily news briefing that the United States applauded Hawks for making the arrests and had "full confidence in the South African judicial system to handle this case according to internationally accepted best practices".
IKON-KHALK, Russia (Reuters) - When Rahim Bulgarov graduated from college in southern Russia with a diploma in tourism, his teacher expected him to go on to further study, or fulfil his dream of opening a car repair shop.
Instead, Bulgarov started going to the mosque with followers of a pious strain of Islam, and, according to a close relative and Egyptian security sources, went to Cairo last year to study Arabic.
Turkish state media have identified Bulgarov, 23, as one of the suspected suicide bombers who attacked Istanbul's Ataturk airport on June 29, killing 45 people and wounding hundreds.
Several of the attackers were from Russia or ex-Soviet countries, making it the deadliest foreign attack by militants from that region since the Boston marathon bombing in 2013, carried out by two young ethnic Chechen brothers.
In the space of two years, Bulgarov changed from a shy young man who led a secular lifestyle to a suspected jihadist bomber, according to Reuters interviews with his teacher, an imam, a classmate and the close relative.
His case shows the challenges that Russian security agencies face identifying potential security threats out of the thousands of young people in Russia who are turning to ultra-conservative forms of Islam.
Three Egyptian security sources told Reuters Bulgarov spent 7 months and 12 days in Cairo, leaving in January this year, and that he signed up for Arabic classes at Al-Azhar University, an Islamic centre of learning.
"He lived in a flat with another young Russian man in the Ain Shams area," said one of the sources, referring to a suburb of Cairo.
Bulgarov was not on the radar of Egyptian security services until Russian authorities contacted them around a week ago seeking information on him and any other Russians he mixed with in Cairo, said the same source.
Bulgarov left Egypt on Jan. 13 for Turkey, according to the three Egyptian sources.
Some time after that, he returned to Russia and was interviewed by the Federal Security Service (FSB), which is responsible for counter-terrorism, and had to undergo a lie detector test, according to the relative, who did not want to be identified.
The relative said Bulgarov was then allowed to go home.
"He passed the test, he was fine," said the relative.
Reuters could not confirm that the interview, a routine procedure in Russia that does not necessarily mean the authorities thought he was a security threat, took place. Local police and the FSB did not respond to requests for comment.
Bulgarov grew up in Karachaevo-Cherkessia, a Russian region on the northern slopes of the North Caucasus mountains where many people are Muslim.
But unlike other parts of the North Caucasus, such as nearby Chechnya and Ingushetia, there was no strong tradition of hardline Islamism or rebellion against Moscow's rule.
Bulgarov's family home is in the village of Ikon-Khalk, a settlement of the Nogai people, a Turkic ethnic group.
His upbringing was comfortable. His father is a tractor driver. His grandmother owns a deli store in the village which, among other items, sells food cooked by his mother.
Putting Bulgarov through college to get his tourism diploma would have cost his family nearly $3,000, according to Mardjan Dagujieva, the director of the college, a substantial sum by local standards.
At the college, Bulgarov was shy.
"When he dared to say a word in class, that was already a shock for us," said Yevgeny Romanenko, a classmate.
He said Bulgarov at that time smoked cigarettes and drank alcohol - both habits which are forbidden according to most interpretations of Islam.
His teacher at the college, Gor Kurginyan, said Bulgarov was one of his best students with a dream to start a small business.
"He planned to launch a car repair shop along a road in his neighbourhood," said Kurginyan.
Bulgarov graduated from the college in 2011, and his teacher expected him to either pursue the workshop plan or keep studying, maybe at university in the nearby city of Pyatigorsk.
But when Kurginyan met up with some of his ex-students about two years ago, he heard the unexpected news that Bulgarov had devoted his life to Islam.
"I asked the guys: 'And how is Rahim?'" said Kurginyan. "They told me he had ... turned to Islam."
After Bulgarov graduated from college, he had been working on a farm and in construction in his Ikon-Khalk, according to his close relative.
But the village was changing. In 2013 or 2014, young local men started visiting the mosque at the end of his street, drawn to practising Islam for the first time in their lives, and in particular to a very strict interpretations of the faith.
This mirrors a trend throughout the North Caucasus. According to a report this year by the International Crisis Group, poverty, corruption and police crackdowns in the region have left many young people feeling angry and persecuted.
Some of them have been drawn to radical forms of Islam which they feel offers a way to address injustices.
"More people started going to mosque," said the imam at the mosque in Bulgarov's village, Abdulla Kumykov. "It had been very few, about 10 people at Friday prayer. And now it's 40-50, (taking up) about half of the prayer room."
When a Reuters reporter visited last week, several men in their 20s and 30s hung around the mosque. They refused to speak with the female reporter, and insisted she did not cross into the mosque's courtyard, saying women were not allowed in.
The imam, who could not explain why there had been an influx of new worshippers, spoke to the reporter outside the perimeter of the mosque.
He said Bulgarov had first come to the mosque around 18 months ago, and had prayed there regularly until he left for Egypt.
The close relative said Bulgarov left home for a second time in March this year, telling his family that he was travelling to find work in Labytnangi, a Russian mining settlement near the Arctic Circle.
The next time the relative knew of his whereabouts was when they learned he was a suspect in the Istanbul airport bombing.
ATHENS (Reuters) - If necessity is the mother of invention, eight years of a crippling recession and dwindling work prospects has compelled at least some Greeks to reboot, switch professions and innovate to survive.
From the island of Syros, handmade wooden spectacle frames are proving a hit with hipsters in Europe and beyond. Gold-infused organic honey from the rolling hills of Evoia in the east is finding favour with upmarket clients in the United States, London, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates. And in an Athens suburb, a carpenter turned to his lifetime hobby of crafting fishing spearguns after his business faltered. His first client was from Russia.
Dimitris Hatzirodos, whose spearguns retail between 450 and 1,500 euros, said the crisis is forcing Greeks to think outside the box.
"When things get tough it gets you thinking, you start thinking differently. When things are easy nobody ever makes difficult choices," he says, sitting in the workshop that he and his brother inherited from their father.
More than 400,000 Greeks have emigrated abroad since the country's financial crisis started in 2009. Those who stayed are lucky to find jobs -- a quarter of the population is unemployed, and earnings have fallen on average 40 percent. National output has fallen by a quarter since 2008.
Periklis Therrios, 36, briefly migrated to Canada. But home beckoned.
He and his partner Eleni Vakondiou, 37, turned to making  hand-crafted spectacle frames around 2012, some of them using recycled materials. The idea came over a coffee, after earlier endeavours with furniture flopped.
"It was very difficult, and there were many times when we thought about giving up, but we believed in our efforts, we believed that we would make a product that could stand on its own in the market," said Vakondiou.
"There were moments when our (food) cabinets at home were empty because whatever income we had went towards research and development," she says.
From a small workshop on Syros the couple started with a production of 350 pairs a year. They say they are now on track to making 2,000 this year, retailing for between 250 and 300 euros.
In Evoia, in the heart of the Greek countryside, Yannis Karypidis and Stevi Theodorou administer beehives left by Theodorou's grandfather. Last year they sold 60,000 jars of organic honey. Production has already exceeded 70,000 jars for the first half of 2016.
Former advertising executive and accountant Karypidis, 35, said the couple had decided to move to the United Kingdom, but  a last trip to Evoia changed their minds.
"We said to ourselves 'if it works it works, if it doesn't it doesn't, but at least we tried it and got it out of our minds and we could then move on to something else'," said Karypidis.
Stayia Farm now produces 16 different types of honey mixtures, probably most noted for one infused with gold flakes.
"It's a product for refined tastes ... it's not something you can find in a supermarket," Karypidis says. The product retails at between 35 and 50 euros overseas.
Ioannis Kaplanis, director general of the government-affiliated Hellenic Industrial Property Organisation, known as OBI, says Greece has the talent but also needs an institutional framework for encouraging patents and financing start-ups.
"There is a critical mass of inventors in the country which must be tapped, transformed into a commodity which will foster growth," he said, adding: "There needs to be financing from businesses or from funds. This link does not exist."
Karypidis and other small business people who have made it agree their success has been all self-generated and speak of government involvement as more of a hindrance than a help.
In typical Greek style, Karypidis did not receive any financing and instead tapped the know-how of his and his wife's extended family. Therrios and Vakondiou used crowd funding -- mostly raised through Greek donations -- to get started.
"The difficulty in Greece right now is to maintain (a business)," said Karypidis. "The expenses, the taxes that exist  make it really difficult to keep a small- or medium-sized business going." 
Speargun-maker Hatzirodos said he is happy to be "bringing even a euro" into Greece, but resents what many call a heavy-handed and shortsighted approach to taxes to keep the country financially afloat.
"This country is the most blessed country there is, but the people who run it just don't deserve it," he said.
KAMPALA (Reuters) - Uganda's veteran opposition leader Kizza Besigye was released on bail on Tuesday after being detained for about two months on treason charges, a judiciary official told Reuters.
Besigye came second in the presidential election in February. Incumbent President Yoweri Museveni won with 60 percent of the vote, the electoral body said.
Besigye and independent monitors said the poll was flawed, citing bribery of voters, interference by security personnel and the national electoral body's lack of impartiality and transparency.
Besigye was arrested in early May after a video surfaced on social media depicting him taking the oath of office for president and he was charged with treason.
"He has been granted bail ... the judge found the objections of the state insufficient to deny him bail," judiciary spokesman Solomon Muyita told Reuters.
He is awaiting trial. State prosecutors have said repeatedly that police had yet to conclude their investigation. Muyita said Besigye was ordered to report to court every two weeks.
Museveni's critics say the charges against Besigye are trumped up and likely aimed at keeping him away from his support base. Officials deny the accusation.
Once hailed for returning political stability after years of turmoil, some local and international critics now accuse Museveni of clamping down on dissent, seeking the presidency for life and tolerating corruption.
A legislator from the ruling party has said she would petition party officials to begin the process by which parliament would remove an age limit that now bars Museveni from standing for another term.
MADRID (Reuters) - Eleven people of primarily Ukrainian and Russian origin were arrested on Tuesday in Barcelona accused of connections with organised crime and money laundering, the Spanish anti-corruption prosecutor's office said.
The investigation found instances of organised crime, money laundering, forgery of official documents and tax avoidance, the prosecutor said in a statement.
The arrests were the second large case involving alleged activity by Russian criminal syndicates since May, when Spanish authorities issued warrants for 12 Russians, including senior officials, said to be operating out of the country.
Those arrested on Tuesday used capital from companies, mostly based in Cyprus or the British Virgin Islands, to acquire, or form, Spanish companies which were used to buy Spanish property, the statement said.
The prosecutor's office said it had discovered more than 10 million euros ($11 million) of laundered money which had been invested in Spanish property.
Spanish authorities also authorised 16 search warrants, blocked numerous bank accounts and seized property associated with the organisation, including a luxury Japanese restaurant in Barcelona, the prosecutor said.
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwan said Tuesday it does not accept a tribunal's ruling on the South China Sea, saying the decision on Itu Aba, Taipei's sole holding in the disputed Spratly Islands, had "seriously impaired" its territorial rights.
The arbitration court in The Hague ruled that China has no historic title over the waters of the South China Sea and that it has breached the sovereign rights of the Philippines with its actions there, infuriating a defiant Beijing.
Taiwan, formally known as the "Republic of China", is also a claimant in the South China Sea. The maps China bases its South China Sea claims on date to when Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists ruled China before they fled to Taiwan in 1949 after losing a civil war to Mao Zedong's Communists.
Manila had challenged the legality of China's claims to virtually the entire South China Sea, in part by arguing that no reefs, atolls or islets in the Spratly archipelago can legally be considered an island, and therefore hold no rights to a 200 nautical mile (370 km) exclusive economic zone.
Itu Aba is the biggest feature in the Spratlys and the one some analysts believed had the strongest claim to island status and an economic zone. The Spratlys are also claimed by China, Vietnam and Malaysia while Brunei claims nearby waters.
HONG KONG/AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - A five judge tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague on Tuesday issued their award in a suit brought by the Philippines disputing Chinese actions in the South China Sea.
Here are some key elements from Tuesday's ruling.
** That China has no "historic title" over the waters of the South China Sea.
** Specifically, that the 1982 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea supercedes China's "Nine-dash line" - its 69-year-old claim to roughly 85 percent of the South China Sea.
** That none of the features of the Spratly Islands off the Philippines' west coast give China any right to an exclusive economic zone.
** That China has interfered with traditional Philippines fishing rights, notably at Scarborough Shoal.
** That Chinese oil exploration near Reed Bank violated the Philippines' sovereign rights.
** That China damaged parts of the ecosystem of the Spratly Islands with activities such as overfishing and creating artificial islands.
** That China's actions have aggravated its conflict with the Philippines at a time it was meant to be resolving them.
GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations called on Tuesday for free movement and protection of civilians fleeing fighting in the South Sudanese capital of Juba, where it said at least 36,000 displaced people are seeking shelter in U.N. sites and other locations.
"Access to those in need is limited by the ongoing fighting and insecurity," U.N. spokeswoman Alessandra Vellucci told a news briefing in Geneva. Access to the U.N. compound is being blocked for civilians, who are trapped in churches and schools without access to water and sanitation, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said, adding that it was sending trauma kits.
Meanwhile the U.N. refugee agency called on neighbouring countries to keep their borders open to people seeking asylum and said it was gearing up for possible refugee outflows.
JUBA (Reuters) - South Sudan's president and vice president ordered their loyalists to cease hostilities on Monday after days of fighting threatened to plunge the country back into civil war and bring further instability to an impoverished region of Africa.
Fighting erupted four days ago in the capital Juba between followers of President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar, the former rebel leader who became vice president under a deal to end a two-year civil war.
The violence, which has killed hundreds of people, broke out as the world's newest nation prepared to mark five years of independence from Sudan on July 9.
Presidential spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny said Kiir and Machar had spoken by phone on Monday, a day which saw tanks and helicopters involved in some of the fiercest clashes yet.
"All the commanders of (Kiir's) forces are directed to cease any hostility and abide by the order and control their forces," Ateny told Reuters. "President Salva Kiir is determined to carry on his partnership with Riek Machar."
Machar responded by ordering his troops to stand down.
"The president has declared a unilateral ceasefire, I want to reciprocate the declaration of unilateral ceasefire," he told the independent Eye Radio.
Much is unclear, however, about the latest violence in Juba, including what the objective of either side has been and how much control Kiir and Machar have over their forces.
The U.S. State Department said it was carrying out an  "ordered departure" of its staff from South Sudan.
The fighting has raised fears of a return to the civil war that erupted in late 2013 and broadly ran along ethnic lines, pitting Kiir, an ethnic Dinka, against Machar, a Nuer.
The conflict killed thousands of people, forced more than 2.5 million people from their homes and left almost half the population of 11 million people struggling to find food. Oil production, by far the biggest source of government revenue, has plummeted.
A new flare-up risks driving yet more people to refugee camps in neighbouring countries in the central African region, which is already plagued by myriad woes.
Central African Republic is riven by conflict, the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo is contending with a patchwork of militias and rebels groups, and Burundi is embroiled in a violent political crisis.
The U.N. Security Council on Sunday demanded Kiir and Machar rein in their forces and end the fighting. The U.N. mission in South Sudan, UNMISS, expressed its "outrage" after its bases in Juba were caught in the crossfire between the two sides and two Chinese peacekeepers were killed.
The United States condemned the violence and said it would hold those who commit atrocities or impede efforts to stop the fighting "fully accountable."
"We call on those fighting to return to their barracks. This senseless and inexcusable violence, undertaken by those who yet again are putting self-interest above the well-being of their country and people, puts at risk everything the South Sudanese people have aspired to over the past five years," White House national security adviser Susan Rice said in a statement.
Kiir and Machar have long been rivals, both in politics and on the battlefield. Civil war broke out in 2013 a few months after Kiir sacked Machar as his deputy.
Fighting has often erupted outside Juba since the two men signed a peace deal in August last year. But this was the first time it had flared in Juba since Machar finally returned in April after months of wrangling about terms of the pact.
Clemence Pinaud, an assistant professor at Indiana University and an expert on South Sudan, said that tensions increased in Juba during the past month.
"We most likely witnessed an acceleration ... into a full-on war in Juba between the two parties," Pinaud said.
Experts say the failure to swiftly implement important elements of the deal, such as integrating and demobilising their forces, has allowed tension to fester and risked igniting a new conflict.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Monday urged the Security Council to impose an arms embargo on South Sudan, sanction leaders and commanders who blocked the implementation of a peace deal and fortify the UNMISS mission.
There has been no official death toll from the recent flare up but at least five soldiers died on Thursday and a Health Ministry source said 272 people, including 33 civilians, were killed on Friday. Sunday and Monday's fighting was more fierce.
UNMISS said gunfire had erupted on Monday around the U.N. headquarters in the Jebel area of Juba and also around a base near the airport. It said U.N. sites had been hit in exchanges of fire, killing eight and injuring 67.
Highlighting lawlessness on Juba's streets, one resident said he saw police officers trying to loot a shop in his neighbourhood by shooting off the padlocks and firing in the air to scare away people, echoing similar witness reports on Sunday.
An army spokesman said that any soldier found stealing civilian property or looting would be arrested, and shot at if they resisted.
The African regional grouping IGAD echoed the U.N. Secretary-General's call to beef up UNMISS's mandate, calling for it be given an enforcement role similar to a U.N.-backed intervention brigade working in eastern Congo.
Through the civil war, however, world powers and regional states struggled to find leverage over the warring factions, despite U.S. and European sanctions on some military leaders and African threats of punitive actions.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China rejected an international ruling on the South China Sea on Tuesday, saying its islands had exclusive economic zones and the Chinese people have more than 2,000 years of history of activities there.
China has sovereignty over the islands in the South China Sea, including the Spratlys and Paracels, and China's position is consistent with international law and practice, China's Foreign Ministry added.
MANILA (Reuters) - The Philippines' foreign minister called for "restraint and sobriety" in the South China Sea on Tuesday after an international arbitration court issued a decision favourable to Manila and condemned by Beijing.
"Our experts are studying this award with the care and thoroughness that this significant arbitral outcome deserves," Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay told a news conference.
"We call on all those concerned to exercise restraint and sobriety. The Philippines strongly affirms its respect for this milestone decision."
DUBAI (Reuters) - Iran's new oil and gas contract was approved on Tuesday after some amendments by the Resistance Economy Headquarters, a top government economic advisory body, the Fars and Tasnim news agencies reported.
The Iran Petroleum Contract (IPC) is a cornerstone of the country's plan to raise crude production through foreign investment.
The launch of contracts has been postponed several times as hardline rivals of pragmatist President Hassan Rouhani resisted any deal that could end the buy-back system, dating back more than 20 years, under which foreign firms are banned from booking reserves or taking equity stakes in local companies.
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said this month that no new oil and gas contracts will be awarded without necessary reforms.
The approval of the contracts by the Resistance Economy Headquarters is important as the advisory body was formed last year to implement Khamenei's economic views.
The body is chaired by the first vice president Eshaq Jahangiri and several cabinet members, including the oil minister, attend its meetings.
The final draft for the contracts must still be approved by the government.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The Hague tribunal ruling on the South China Sea is final and legally binding, and the parties to the case are required to comply, Japan said on Tuesday.
Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said in a statement that Japan has consistently advocated the importance of the rule of law and the use of peaceful means, not the use of force or coercion, in seeking settlement of maritime disputes.
DAR ES SALAAM (Reuters) - Tanzanian police said on Tuesday it had seized elephant ivory worth more than $2 million (1.5 million pounds) and arrested nine suspected smugglers in June in an operation supported by Interpol and police forces in the region.
Poaching has risen in recent years across sub-Saharan  Africa. Gangs kill elephants and rhinos, both endangered animals, and ship their tusks and horns to Asia for use in ornaments and medicines.
"We were able to seize 666 pieces of elephant ivory, weighing 1,279 kilogrammes valued at 4.6 billion shillings  ($2.11 million)," Diwani Athuman, director of criminal investigation, said in a statement.     
Among the suspects arrested were two citizens of Guinea and one Ugandan. Interpol and police forces in eastern and southern Africa took part in the operation, he said.
The elephant population in Tanzania shrank to around 43,000 in 2014 from 110,000 in 2009, according to a census released last year, with conservationists blaming "industrial-scale" poaching. The rhino population is much smaller.
The East African country relies heavily on revenues from safari tourism and new President John Magufuli has pledged to root out poaching as part of a wider war on corruption.
A prominent Chinese businesswoman Yang Feng Glan, 66, dubbed the "Ivory Queen", is facing trial in Tanzania on charges of running a elephant ivory smuggling network.