
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (Reuters) - A man said to have harboured Nazi sympathies as a teenager before a failed bid to join the U.S. Army was due in court on Monday to face charges he ploughed his car into protesters opposing a white nationalist rally in Virginia, killing a woman and injuring 19.
The bail hearing for James Alex Fields, 20, arrested on suspicion of murder, malicious wounding and hit-and-run charges, was set to unfold in Charlottesville as the U.S. Justice Department pressed its own federal hate-crime investigation of the incident.
Authorities said Heather Heyer, 32, was killed when Fields' car slammed into a crowd of anti-racism activists confronting neo-Nazis and Ku Klux Klan (KKK) sympathizers, capping a day of bloody street brawls between the two sides in the Virginia college town on Saturday.
More than 30 people were injured in separate incidents, and two state police officers died in the crash of their helicopter after assisting in efforts to quell the unrest. The fatal disturbances began with white nationalists converging to protest against plans to remove a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee, the commander of rebel forces during the U.S. Civil War.
President Donald Trump's reaction to the clashes - the first major domestic crisis he has faced since taking office - ignited a wider political firestorm at the weekend.
Democrats and Republicans alike criticized Trump for waiting too long to address the violence, and for failing when he did speak out to explicitly condemn white-supremacist marchers widely seen as sparking the melee.
Trump was specifically taken to task for comments on Saturday in which he denounced what he called "this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides."
Under mounting pressure to take an unequivocal stand against right-wing extremists who occupy a loyal segment of the Republican president's political base, the Trump administration sought to sharpen its message the next day.
The White House issued a statement on Sunday insisting that Trump was condemning "all forms of violence, bigotry and hatred, and of course that includes white supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazi, and all extremist groups."
Vice President Mike Pence took an even tougher line against white nationalists in remarks delivered late on Sunday during his trip to Colombia.
"We have no tolerance for hate and violence from white supremacists, neo-Nazis or the KKK," Pence said.
"These dangerous fringe groups have no place in American public life and in the American debate, and we condemn them in the strongest possible terms," he said.
Virginia police at the weekend offered no motive for the man accused of ramming his car into the crowd.
Derek Weimer, a history teacher at Fields' high school in Kentucky, told Cincinnati television station WCPO-TV that he remembered Fields harbouring "some very radical views on race" as a student and was "very infatuated with the Nazis, with Adolf Hitler."
Weimer also recounted Fields being "gung-ho" about joining the Army when he graduated.
The Army confirmed that Fields reported for basic military training in August 2015 but was "released from active duty due to a failure to meet training standards in December of 2015."
The Army statement did not explain how he had failed to meet training standards.
Fields was being held on suspicion of second-degree murder, three counts of malicious wounding and a single count of leaving the scene of a fatal accident, authorities said.
Reuters Staff
3 Min Read
(Reuters) - Merck & Co Inc (MRK.N) Chief Executive Kenneth Frazier resigned from U.S. President Donald Trump's American Manufacturing Council on Monday, saying he was taking a stand against intolerance and extremism.
A gathering of hundreds of white nationalists in Virginia took a deadly turn on Saturday when a car ploughed into a group of counter-protesters and killed at least one person.
Trump had said "many sides" were involved, drawing fire from across the political spectrum for not specifically denouncing the far right.
"America's leaders must honour our fundamental views by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy, which run counter to the American ideal that all people are created equal," Frazier, who is African-American, said in a statement announcing his resignation. (bit.ly/2fFnITM)
"As CEO of Merck and as a matter of personal conscience, I feel a responsibility to take a stand against intolerance and extremism," he said.
Trump responded in a tweet, now that "Ken Frazier of Merck Pharma has resigned from President's Manufacturing Council, he will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!"
Several executives from top U.S. companies have stepped down from a number of presidential advisory councils in protest to Trump policies.
Tesla Inc (TSLA.O) CEO Elon Musk and Walt Disney Co (DIS.N) CEO Robert Iger left the President’s Strategic and Policy Forum, a business advisory group, in June, after Trump said he would withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Musk also left the manufacturing council.
Former Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] CEO Travis Kalanick quit the business advisory council in February amid pressure from activists and employees who opposed the administration's immigration policies.
The White House said Sunday that Trump's remarks condemning violence at a white nationalist rally were meant to include the Ku Klux Klan and neo-Nazi groups.
Democrats and Republicans criticized Trump for waiting too long to address the violence - his first major domestic crisis as president - and for failing when he did speak out to explicitly condemn white-supremacist marchers who ignited the melee.
Trump on Saturday initially denounced what he called "this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides."
On Sunday, however, the White House added: "The president said very strongly in his statement yesterday that he condemns all forms of violence, bigotry, and hatred, and of course that includes white supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazi, and all extremist groups. He called for national unity and bringing all Americans together."
ATHENS (Reuters) - Firefighters battled to contain a wildfire near Athens on Monday after it spread overnight to three towns some 45 km (30 miles) northeast of the capital and damaged dozens of homes.
The blaze broke out around 1300 GMT on Sunday in Kalamos, a coastal holiday spot northeast of Athens and quickly spread, fanned by strong and changing winds.
A state of emergency was declared in the area as the blaze burnt pine forest and thick smoke billowed above. By Monday afternoon, the fire's perimeter had expanded to "dozens of kilometers" authorities said, and the smell of smoke hovered over central Athens.
More than 200 firefighters with five dozen fire engines, four water-dropping helicopters and one plane tackled the blaze but a rugged terrain dispersed with small communities made the fire fighting task difficult, the fire brigade said.
Authorities had ordered a precautionary evacuation of two youth camps and homes in the area, and evacuated a monastery  after flames briefly reached its fence on Monday.
Hundreds of residents fled the area of Kalamos, heading to the beach to spend the night.
"It was a terrible mess, that's what it was. You could see homes on fire, people running, people desperate, it was chaos and the fire was very big," a resident told Reuters TV.
Andreas Theodorou, a local councillor, said the blaze had damaged "several dozens of homes."
More than 90 forest fires have been recorded in the last 24 hours across the country, with the most serious fronts near Athens, in the Peloponnese and on the Ionian islands of Zakynthos and Kefalonia in western Greece.
"It's arson according to an organised plan," Justice Minister Stavros Kontonis, who is also the MP for Zakythnos, told state TV when asked to comment on the dozen fires burning on the island in the last two days. "There is no doubt about it."
The cause of the wildfires was not known but summer blazes are common in Greece. More than 70 died in 2007 during the worst fires in decades.
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Elephants helped rescue hundreds of tourists from a flooded jungle safari park in Nepal, officials said on Monday, as the death toll from flash floods and landslides after four days of heavy rain rose to 70.
The Rapti River overflowed its banks in Sauraha, 80 km (50 miles) south of the capital, Kathmandu, inundating hotels and restaurants and leaving some 600 tourists stranded.
Sauraha, on the fringe of Chitwan National Park, is home to 605 rhinoceroses and is popular with foreign tourists, including Indian and Chinese visitors, mainly for rhino watching and elephant rides.
"Some 300 guests were rescued on elephant backs and tractor trailers to (nearby) Bharatpur yesterday and the rest will be taken to safer places today," Suman Ghimire, head of a group of Sauraha hotel owners, said by telephone on Monday.
Floods have also swept the nearby northeast Indian state of Assam state in the past two days, killing at least 15 people and displacing nearly 2.3 million, officials said on Monday.
Nearly 90 percent of Assam's Kaziranga national park, home to the world's largest population of the endangered one-horned rhinoceros, was under water, Forest Minister Pramilla Rani Brahma said. The animals have moved to higher ground.
In Nepal, relief workers said 26 of the country's 75 districts were either submerged or had been hit by landslides after heavy rains lashed the Himalayan nation, home to Mount Everest and the birthplace of Lord Buddha.
The death toll was expected to rise with another 50 people reported missing, Information and Communications Minister Mohan Bahadur Basnet said.
Basnet said more than 60,000 homes were under water, mainly in the southern plains bordering India. Estimates of losses were not available, with rescuers yet to reach villages marooned by the worst floods in recent years.
"The situation is worrying as tens of thousands of people have been hit," Basnet told Reuters.
Large swaths of farmland in the southern plains, Nepal's breadbasket, are under water and the country could face food shortages due to crop losses, aid workers said.
"The heavy rains hit at one of the worst times, shortly after farmers planted their rice crop in the country's most important agricultural region," said Sumnima Shrestha, a spokeswoman for U.S.-based non-profit group Heifer International.
Monsoon rains, which start in June and continue through September, are important for farm-dependent Nepal, but they also cause heavy loss of life and property damage each year.
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a possible successor to 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe, is recovering in a South African hospital after he fell ill and was airlifted from Zimbabwe.
Mnangagwa, 74, was absent from celebrations on Monday to mark Heroes Day in the capital Harare.
"He is not back yet from hospital in Johannesburg," Mugabe said during his speech at the national Heroes Acre, announcing that Mnangagwa was unwell. He did not give details.
Health Minister David Parirenyatwa told reporters after the speech that Mnangagwa was feeling "much better". Asked whether Mnangagwa would be discharged soon, he said "yes, he is well, I spoke to him this morning."
Mnangagwa and Pelekezela Mphoko are Mugabe's vice presidents in the ruling ZANU-PF party and government but the former is seen as the likely successor following elevation to the post in 2014.
The issue of who will succeed Mugabe has deeply divided the ruling party into two factions -- one supporting Mnangagwa, the other Mugabe's wife Grace.
Parirenyatwa said Mnangagwa had severe vomiting and diarrhoea and several tests had been conducted in Zimbabwe before he was airlifted to South Africa, which has better medical facilities.
"He preferred to go there for his doctors. Some of his doctors are in South Africa, so we sent him there," he said.
Local private media reported that Mnangagwa had suffered suspected food poisoning.
Nicknamed "Crocodile" in the Shona language, Mnangagwa was appointed after the sacking of Joice Mujuru, who had held the position for 10 years.
Mujuru has since formed a party that is part of a coalition to challenge Mugabe.
Christine Kim and Ben Blanchard
6 Min Read
SEOUL/BEIJING (Reuters) - Tension on the Korean peninsula eased slightly on Monday as South Korea's president said resolving North Korea's nuclear ambitions must be done peacefully and U.S. officials played down the risk of an imminent war.
Concern that North Korea is close to achieving its goal of putting the mainland United States within range of a nuclear weapon has underpinned a spike in tension in recent months.
U.S. President Donald Trump warned at the weekend that the U.S. military was "locked and loaded" if North Korea acted unwisely after threatening last week to land missiles near the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
"There must be no more war on the Korean peninsula. Whatever ups and downs we face, the North Korean nuclear situation must be resolved peacefully," South Korean President Moon Jae-in told a regular meeting with senior aides and advisers.
"I am certain the United States will respond to the current situation calmly and responsibly in a stance that is equal to ours," he said.
While backing Trump's tough talk, U.S. officials including  National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster played down the risk on Sunday of the rhetoric escalating into conflict.
"I think we're not closer to war than a week ago, but we are closer to war than we were a decade ago," McMaster told ABC News' "This Week".
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Pompeo said North Korean leader Kim Jong Un might conduct another missile test but talk of being on the cusp of a nuclear war was overstating the risk.
"I've seen no intelligence that would indicate that we're in that place today," Pompeo told "Fox News Sunday".
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said in a commentary in the Wall Street Journal the United States was adopting a policy of "strategic accountability" towards North Korea, and was applying diplomatic and economic pressure "to achieve the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and a dismantling of the regime’s ballistic-missile programs".
"While diplomacy is our preferred means of changing North Korea’s course of action, it is backed by military options," they said.
World stocks rallied as investors took heart from the less bellicose rhetoric. [MKTS/GLOB]
However, North Korea reiterated its threats, with its official KCNA news agency saying "war cannot be blocked by any power if sparks fly due to a small, random incident that was unintentional".
"Any second Korean War would have no choice but to spread into a nuclear war," it said in a commentary.
South Korean Vice Defence Minister Suh Choo-suk agreed North Korea was likely to continue provocations, including nuclear tests, but did not see a big risk of the North engaging in actual military conflict.
Suh again highlighted doubts about North Korea's claims about its military capability.
"Both the United States and South Korea do not believe North Korea has yet completely gained re-entry technology in material engineering terms," Suh said in remarks televised on Sunday for a Korea Broadcasting System show.
The United States and South Korea remain technically still at war with North Korea after the 1950-53 Korean conflict ended with a truce, not a peace treaty.
Tension in the region has risen since North Korea carried out two nuclear bomb tests last year and two intercontinental ballistic missile tests in July, tests it often conducts to coincide with important national dates.
Tuesday marks the anniversary of Japan's expulsion from the Korean peninsula, a rare holiday celebrated by both the North and the South. Moon and Kim, who has not been seen publicly for several days, are both expected to make addresses on their respective sides of the heavily militarised border.
Trump has urged China, the North's main ally and trading partner, to do more to rein in its neighbour, often linking Beijing's efforts to comments around U.S.-China trade. China strenuously rejects linking the two issues.
Trump will issue an order later on Monday to determine whether to investigate Chinese trade practices that force U.S. firms operating in China to turn over intellectual property, senior administration officials said on Saturday.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said that Beijing has said many times the essence of China-U.S. trade and business ties is mutual benefit and that there is no future in any trade war between China and the United States.
"The (Korean) peninsula issue and trade and business issues are in a different category from each other," Hua added. "On these two issues, China and the United States should respect each other and increase cooperation. Using one issue as a tool for exerting pressure on another is clearly inappropriate."
China's Commerce Ministry issued an order on Monday banning imports of coal, iron ore, lead concentrates and ore, lead and sea food from North Korea, effective from Tuesday.
The move followed the announcement of U.N. sanctions against North Korea this month which have to be enforced within 30 days by member-states.
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Joseph Dunford told South Korea's Moon in a meeting on Monday that U.S. military options being prepared against North Korea would be for when diplomatic and economic sanctions failed, according to Moon's office.
MOMBASA, Kenya (Reuters) - Eleven people drowned when the boat they were travelling in capsized in turbulent waters in the Indian Ocean off Kenya, officials and witnesses said on Monday.
Ten of the dead were members of the same family and were heading to a local airport to catch a flight to Mombasa on Sunday, Joseph Kanyiri, area government administrator, told Reuters.
The sole survivor was Shekue Kahale, a local politician who campaigned for election to parliament in last week's election. His wife, four children and a sister with three children, were among those who died, Kahale told reporters.
"We suspect the boat capsized due to sea turbulence,” Kanyiri said.
Nine bodies had been recovered by midday on Monday and a search for the remaining bodies was ongoing, Kanyiri said.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
ARENDAL, Norway (Reuters) - The potential for temporary British membership of the European Economic Area after it leaves the European Union would be both challenging and costly to handle, Norway's Prime Minister Erna Solberg told Reuters on Monday.
"There would be a cost they would have to share, and an authority outside their border that could impose binding decisions on them, which is not entirely in line with what they've said they want ... But we're prepared for various scenarios," Solberg said on the sidelines of a news conference.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - A group of Syrian rebels and refugees began to leave a border enclave in Lebanon for Syrian territory on Monday under a deal worked out with Lebanese and Syrian authorities, a TV station affiliated to Hezbollah said.
The departure of rebels from a group called Saraya Ahl al-Sham will leave an Islamic State enclave as the last militant stronghold straddling the border near the Lebanese town of Arsal, which is home to tens of thousands of refugees.
About 300 rebels from the group as well as about 3,000 refugees are to leave Lebanon under the deal that followed an assault by the Lebanese Shi'ite group Hezbollah on insurgent positions last month.
A convoy of 40 buses had left for the Syrian border, al-Manar TV, which is linked to Hezbollah, said. Television footage showed buses very slowly moving through the dry hills of the border area.
The transfer involving Saraya Ahl al-Sham rebels and another one early this month of Nusra Front fighters and refugees, are similar to deals struck within Syria in which Damascus has shuttled rebels and civilians to opposition areas.
On Friday, the Lebanese security official overseeing the arrangements, General Abbas Ibrahim, said a group of civilians would go to Assal al-Ward, an area just across the border from Arsal and held by the Syrian government.
The fighters and their families will go to another part of Syria which he did not identify. Al-Manar said last week they would go to the rebel-held town of al-Ruhaiba in the Eastern Qalamoun region.
Hezbollah is a Lebanese Shi'ite group that has played a big battlefield role in Syria's civil war on the side of President Bashar al-Assad.
Last month it defeated rebels in the insurgent enclaves near the border in Lebanon and forced the hardline Islamist Nusra Front group to leave. About 7,000 refugees departed with them for a rebel-held part of northwest Syria.
The Lebanese army is expected soon to assault the Islamic State pocket in the same area. The United States helps arm the Lebanese army and on Monday delivered eight new armoured vehicles, its embassy said.
Defeating the Islamic State pocket would end a period of several years in which armed groups from inside Syria held positions in the hills around Arsal, the most serious spillover of the civil war into Lebanon.
More than 1 million Syrian refugees are sheltering in Lebanon, about a quarter of its total population. Hezbollah has  stepped up calls for the Lebanese government to engage directly with Damascus over the return of refugees to Syria.
Syria's opposition has criticised previous evacuations of civilians under ceasefire deals as amounting to the forced transfer of populations, something Damascus denies.
The growing number of evacuation deals for fighters and civilians from besieged rebel areas inside Syria over the past year has helped Assad solidify his hold in several parts of the country.
Lebanon's General Security, the government agency that negotiated Monday's transfer, said all the civilians returning were doing so voluntarily.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday that welfare and social spending must take precedence over the increased military expenditure demanded by U.S. President Donald Trump.
The conservative leader's Social Democratic (SPD) rivals in an election on Sept. 24 have accused her of bowing to the U.S. administration's demand that Germany meet NATO's spending target of 2 percent of national output on defence.
The SPD, who lag Merkel's Christian Democrats in the polls by some 15 percentage points, said Germany would have to nearly double current defence spending from 37 billion euros ($43.65 billion) to meet the NATO target.
Merkel's ruling coalition, which includes the SPD as junior partner, has approved defence spending hikes that fall short of the NATO target.
($1 = 0.8477 euros)
BELGRADE (Reuters) - Serbia's foreign minister and a top ally of President Aleksandar Vucic has suggested a compromise to end a conflict over Kosovo, the newest independent European state, that is blocking Serbia's hopes of European Union membership.
Serbia, where many regard Kosovo as the cradle of their nation and Orthodox Christian faith, refuses to recognise the independence of its former Southern province and has been blocking its membership in organisations including Interpol and UNESCO.
But normalisation of relations with Pristina is a key condition for Serbia to come closer to membership in the European Union, which the government has set as its priority.
In an op-ed piece published by the Vecernje Novosti daily on Monday, Ivica Dacic suggested that delimitation between Serbs and Albanians, the largest ethnic group in Kosovo, would be a way out of what he described as Serbia's centennial problem.
"Everyone needs a lasting solution of the Serbian-Albanian conflict which can be reached only through an agreement ... where everyone will win something and lose something," wrote Dacic, who is also First Deputy Prime Minister.
Dacic said Serbia should seek autonomy for Serb enclaves in Kosovo, a protected status for Orthodox monasteries and financial compensation for what Serbia claims as its property including industrial and energy facilities.
There was no immediate reaction from Pristina. Most Kosovo Albanians oppose greater autonomy for Serb-dominated municipalities, saying that would allow Belgrade to exert greater influence.
Dacic's comments echoed a call for a nationwide dialogue over Kosovo suggested by Vucic, who is leading the Serbian team in EU-led talks to resolve differences between the two countries.
Kosovo seceded from Serbia in 2008, almost a decade after NATO intervened with air strikes to drive out Serbian forces and halt the killing and expulsion of ethnic Albanian civilians during a two-year counter-insurgency war.
Currently there are around 120,000 Serbs in Kosovo and most of them, mainly in the north, oppose the Pristina authorities.
Serbia has so far avoided formal proposals for the carve-up of Kosovo as the move would mean abandoning its title to the whole territory, which it insists on under its constitution.
Kosovo has been recognised by 115 countries, including 23 out of 28 EU members, but its UN membership is being blocked by Serbia's allies Russia and China.
BEIJING (Reuters) - A human rights activist best known as "Super Vulgar Butcher" who rose to prominence by harnessing social media to mobilise public support admitted in a closed-door trial that his actions "violated the law", a Chinese court said on Monday.
Wu Gan, 44, was detained in May 2015 and charged with subverting the state.
Known for his distinctive bald pate and cutting humour, Wu combined cyber-activism with eye-catching street performance to draw attention to causes ranging from wrongful imprisonment to freedom of speech.
He worked in an investigative capacity for a law firm, helping it find and vet cases involving abuses of power.
In a brief statement published on its official Weibo account on Monday afternoon, the Tianjin No.2 Intermediate People's Court said it did not hold an open hearing because Wu's case impinged on "state secrets".
"The defendant Wu Gan recognised his behaviour violated criminal law and constituted a crime," the court said, adding that his lawyers were allowed to "fully express" their defence arguments.
The court said a verdict would be handed down at an unspecified later date.
Politically sensitive cases such as Wu's almost always result in a guilty verdict from China's Communist Party-controlled judiciary.
Wu's lawyer, Ge Yongxi, said it was "inconvenient" to talk about the case when reached by telephone.
In a pre-trial statement that Wu managed to slip to his lawyers during a recent meeting, Wu said he knew he would "receive a heavy sentence" because of his "refusal to accept a state-designated lawyer, plead guilty, and make a televised confession for their propaganda purposes".
"My crime of subverting the communist regime is a great honour for me," he said in the statement, published online by his father on Aug. 9.
"A guilty verdict issued by a dictatorial regime is a golden glittering trophy awarded to warriors for liberty and democracy."
Wu was detained at the start of what is now referred to as the "709 Crackdown", named after the date of the biggest sweep on July 9, 2015, when hundreds of lawyers and activists were targeted for arrest, detention or questioning.
Wu is one of the last defendants to go on trial, more than two years on.
Most of the lawyers and activists have been released after serving short or suspended sentences, usually after recording televised "confessions", pleading guilty and expressing contrition in court.
Wu's supporters say his trial was delayed and only held behind closed doors because of his refusal to follow suit, while also scoffing at any suggestion he could have any state secrets in his possession.
"Wu Gan's trial is a cruel farce and it is inconceivable that he will receive a fair hearing in what is a politically motivated prosecution," said Patrick Poon, China researcher for Amnesty International.
"He is merely being punished for refusing to stop his innovative and legitimate campaigns for justice in China."
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa's President Jacob Zuma wants the African National Congress to identify and punish party members who voted against him in a no-confidence motion in parliament last week.
Some 30 ANC lawmakers supported the opposition motion in a secret ballot on Aug. 8, not enough for it to pass but the defection exposed rifts within the ANC that could weaken Zuma's ability to influence the choice of next party leader at elections in December.
Addressing an ANC meeting late on Sunday, Zuma called the defectors "people who have double hearts, one for the ANC and one for other parties," and said they "must be taken to the (ANC) disciplinary committee," South African media reported.
"What our enemies (opposition members of parliament) were doing was to say: 'How can we destroy the ANC and weaken it, so that we can take control of the country?' ... We should never do it again," Zuma was quoted as saying.
It was unclear how the party would be able to determine who had voted against Zuma or what action could be taken against them. The president said he would discuss the issue of dissenters at a meeting of the ANC on Monday.
ANC communications officials were unavailable to comment.
Critics say Zuma's priority is to ensure he retains sufficient control over the party to ensure that his chosen candidate succeeds him as leader so he can avoid scrutiny over corruption allegations that have dogged his eight years in power. Zuma has denied wrongdoing.
The opposition sought to oust Zuma after he removed finance minister Pravin Gordhan in March, a move that hit the financial markets and prompted two credit ratings agencies to downgrade South Africa's debt rating to junk status.
Following the failure of the no-confidence motion, the main opposition Democratic Alliance party said it would bring a motion to dissolve parliament and call a general election. The ANC, which has a strong majority in the assembly, dismissed the DA's call as "dreams and hallucinations".
PARIS (Reuters) - A French citizen was killed during an attack by suspected jihadists on a restaurant in Burkina Faso's capital, said a statement issued on behalf of French Foreign Affairs minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.
"The minister presented his condolences to the victims of the attack, which included one French national who died at the scene," said the statement. No further details were given regarding the identity of the French victim.
Le Drian had also discussed the situation in Ouagadougou with his Burkina Faso counterpart, the statement said.
At least 18 people were killed and several wounded during the raid on the restaurant in Burkina Faso's capital overnight, although security forces shot dead both attackers and freed people trapped inside the building.
BAGHDAD (Reuters) - The United Arab Emirates signalled its desire to strengthen ties with Iraq during weekend talks with influential Iraqi Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr as part of efforts by Sunni nations of the Middle East to halt Iran's growing regional influence.
Sadr met Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahayan, crown prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy commander of the UAE armed forces on Sunday in Abu Dhabi, according to a senior aide of the cleric.
Sadr also discussed ways of improving understanding between the Sunni and Shi'ite branches of Islam, at a meeting on Monday with a prominent Sunni cleric in Abu Dhabi.
The UAE is among Sunni nations which feel threatened by Iran's increased power in the region, often projected through allied Shi'ite groups in Iraq and Lebanon.
"The two sides emphasized the importance to act in true Islamic spirit and reject violence and extremist thought," Sadr's office in Baghdad said in a statement on his website on Monday, reporting on his meeting with Emirati cleric Ahmed al-Kubaisi.
Closer ties with Sadr, who commands a large following among the urban poor of Baghdad and southern Iraq, would help Sunni states loosen Tehran's grip over Iraq's Shi'ite community and contain its influence.
The UAE, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Bahrain severed relations with Qatar on June 5, accusing the major gas-exporting Gulf state of financing terrorism, meddling in the affairs of Arab countries and cozying up to their arch-rival Iran.
Sadr is one of few Iraqi Shi'ite leaders to keep some distance from Iran. In April, he became the first Iraqi Shi'ite leader to call on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step down, marking his difference with Iran and Iranian-backed Iraqi militias backing the Syrian government.
"Experience has taught us to always call for what brings Arabs and Muslims together, and to reject the advocates of division," the Abu Dhabi crown prince told Sadr, according to report on the Emirati state-run news agency WAM.
The Iraqi cleric's trip to Abu Dhabi comes two weeks after a  visit to Saudi Arabia, where he met crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman..
Sadr's office said his meeting with Mohammed bin Salman at the end of July resulted in an agreement to study possible investments in Shi'ite regions of southern Iraq.
The Saudis will consider the possibility of opening a consulate in Iraq's holy Shi'ite city of Najaf, it said.
Sadr also announced a Saudi decision to donate $10 million to help Iraqis displaced by the war on Islamic State in Iraq, to be paid to the Iraqi government.
Baghdad and Riyadh had announced in June they would set up a coordination council to upgrade ties, as part of an attempt to heal troubled relations between the Arab neighbours.
Saudi Arabia reopened its embassy in Baghdad in 2015 following a 25-year break, and Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir made a rare visit to Baghdad in February.
Aditya Kalra
4 Min Read
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's health ministry has trimmed its cost estimates for extending its main public health programme by 25 percent after criticism from a federal think-tank over inefficiency and slow progress, according to government documents seen by Reuters.
The new estimate of $25 billion for a three-year extension of the flagship health programme, down from an initial figure of about $33 billion, comes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi pushes a multi-pronged agenda to revamp health services.
Planned reforms include streamlining spending and bureaucracy, slashing prices of life-saving drugs and medical devices, and nudging companies such as PepsiCo to make more healthy products.
To extend the National Health Mission to 2020, a think-tank led by Modi and the finance ministry in March told health officials to rework the original proposal with "realistic" budget expectations and to incorporate lessons from neighbours such as Nepal and Bangladesh, the documents show.
In response, the health ministry has resubmitted a plan with lower cost estimates and a list of targets to be achieved by 2020, including strengthening health infrastructure and reducing tobacco use.
The finance ministry, which will review the plan for approval this month, did not respond to a request for comment. The federal think-tank, NITI Aayog, declined to comment.
India's National Health Mission is one of the world's largest public health programmes. It provides free drugs and treatment to millions of rural poor and helped to eradicate polio.
But the public health system is in a shambles and India ranks poorly on key indicators - more than a million children die every year before reaching the age of five.
After focussing on maternal and child health for years, the programme will broaden priorities to tackle a growing burden of non-communicable diseases such as cancer, heart disease and diabetes, according to the documents.
The ministry has proposed increasing spending to treat such ailments from about $150 million this year to $1.5 billion in 2019-20, according to the new proposal which includes spending contributions from states.
The annual funding for strengthening the health system, including ramping up infrastructure and the work force, will more than double to about $3 billion in 2019-20, the documents show.
The new funding estimates are in line with a goal of raising health spending to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2025, from 1.15 percent, a health ministry official said.
The NITI Aayog was at first against the continuation of the National Health Mission, according to a record of government meetings reviewed by Reuters.
During a March meeting to discuss the proposal, the NITI Aayog's health adviser said the programme needed a "course correction" and needed to improve standards.
The adviser, Alok Kumar, also pointed out that despite investment in the programme, public facilities were not attracting enough patients, documents showed.
Because rural hospitals in India are often dilapidated and suffer from a shortage of doctors, it is not uncommon for people to shun them and travel long distances in search of quality healthcare.
In the reworked plan, the ministry has prioritised out-patient departments, and aims to reduce premature mortality from cancer or heart ailments by a tenth and cut tobacco use by 7 percent by 2020, the documents showed.
Kumar pointed out in the March meeting that Bangladesh and Nepal had performed "better with even lower resources". Kumar declined to comment.
Data from World Health Organisation shows that Nepal, for example, had an under-five mortality ratio of 35.8 per 1,000 births, compared with India's ratio of 47.7.
Health officials acknowledged in the meeting that results had yet to achieve levels of neighbouring countries.
Ju-min Park and Heekyong Yang
5 Min Read
SEOUL (Reuters) - Just over three months in office, South Korea's president is finding little room to manoeuvre between old enemy North Korea and increasing combativeness from long-time ally, the United States.
North Korea has snubbed offers for talks from President Moon Jae-in, the South's first liberal leader in a decade. And U.S. President Donald Trump has alarmed Seoul with his warnings that the United States will unleash "fire and fury" if threatened by North Korea's nuclear and missile programmes.
Any confrontation between the two will inevitably draw in South Korea, which faces thousands of North Korean troops and artillery guns across the heavily militarised border.
With few options at his command, Moon has been encouraging Washington to talk directly to Pyongyang to resolve differences, according to senior officials and advisers to the president.
"Dialogue is urgently needed to stop the North from developing its weapons programmes further," said Moon Chung-in, a special adviser to the president on foreign affairs and national security.
"But North Korea sees the South as powerless and won't negotiate with us. They want to have direct talks with the United States," said Moon, who also holds the post of distinguished professor at Yonsei University in Seoul.
Washington is insistent on maximizing economic sanctions and keeping up pressure on the North to stop its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
"Moon has been telling Trump that a military option should never be considered, but there is not much we can do when two strong leaders (of North Korea and the United States) are clashing," said Lee Su-hoon, who headed a group of national security advisers for the president until July.
"But no one wants a catastrophic end. Down the road, I expect there will be a compromise and dialogue."
In comments on Monday, President Moon insisted on dialogue to resolve differences with the North, "whatever ups and downs we face".
"I am certain the United States will respond to the current situation calmly and responsibly in a stance that is equal to ours," he said in opening remarks at a meeting with senior aides.
But there seems little likelihood of dialogue at this point.
In his most recent phone conversation with Trump a week ago, Moon said "a tragic war should never happen on the Korean peninsula," according to his presidential spokesman. But within days, Trump warned Pyongyang would meet fire and fury if it threatened the United States.
The sharp rise in tensions is expected to dominate a speech by Moon on Tuesday to commemorate the 72th anniversary of liberation from Japanese colonial rule. He also holds a news conference on Thursday to mark his 100th day in office.
The anniversary is shared by North Korea and its leader Kim Jong Un may also make a speech.
Tensions between North Korea and the United States surged last week after the isolated country said it would finalise a plan by mid-August to launch four intermediate range missiles towards waters off the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
Referring to Kim Jong Un, Trump said: "If he does anything with respect to Guam or any place else that's an American territory or an American ally, he will truly regret it, and he will regret it fast."
The heated rhetoric has raised fears of a sudden clash, that once started could cause massive casualties in the South's densely populated capital Seoul, which is just 40 km (25 miles) south of the border. The Seoul metropolitan area is home to 25 million people.
Moon, closely linked with South Korea's 1998-2008 policies of engaging with the North, came to office promising to revive ties with Pyongyang.
He filled his national security team with several key players of that time, naming them to the posts of prime minister, spy chief and unification minister.
"The problem is that Kim Jong Un is nothing like his father," said Nam Seong-wook, professor of North Korea Studies at Korea University in Seoul.
"Officials in the Moon government don't know him, since they just have dealt with Kim Jong Il," Nam said, referring to the current leader's father, who died in late 2011.
Less than six years into his reign, Kim has tested more missiles than his father and grandfather combined, conducted three nuclear tests, and is racing to develop a nuclear-tipped missile that can hit the U.S. mainland.
Faced with this aggressiveness, and Kim's refusal to talk to the South, Seoul has few options, analysts said.
"At this point, there's little South Korea can do but... communications with the United States and China, and we're doing a good job at that," said Lee, Moon's former adviser.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A German court has found a Syrian refugee guilty of attempting to defraud Islamic State, a court spokeswoman said on Monday, granting legal protection to a group viewed as terrorists by the European Union.
A judge in the district court in the southwestern city of Saarbruecken sentenced the 39-year old hairdresser from Damascus to two years in prison for trying to get Islamic State operatives to transfer him up to 180,000 euros (163,674 pounds).
The judge ruled that the man used the false pretence that he would carry out attacks in Germany for Islamic State using explosives. The money was never transferred to the man.
The court rejected the prosecution's argument that the man was guilty of the more serious crime of planning to carry out attacks on behalf of the militant organisation.
Both parties have appealed the ruling to the Federal Supreme Court, the court spokeswoman said. The Syrian refugee was named only as Hasan A. due to German privacy laws.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
SEOUL (Reuters) - U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Joseph Dunford said on Monday U.S. military options being prepared against North Korea would be for when diplomatic and economic sanctions failed, South Korea's president's office said on Monday.
Dunford made the comments to South Korean President Moon Jae-in in a 50-minute meeting to discuss recent issues including North Korean provocation, office spokesman Park Su-hyun told a media briefing.
Dunford was in Seoul speaking to South Korean military officials, including Defence Minister Song Young-moo. He was due to leave South Korea later on Monday and will make stops in China and Japan this week.
Tension has increased in recent months over concern that North Korea is close to achieving its goal of putting the mainland United States within range of a nuclear weapon.
North Korea and the United States exchanged threats of military action last week, with Pyongyang saying it will develop a plan to strike the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron will discuss the situation in Burkina Faso later on Monday with Burkina Faso President Roch Marc Kabore, after an attack on a restaurant in Ouagadougo which killed at least 18 people.
"The president of the republic will hold talks during the day with his counterpart, President Roch Marc Kabore, in order to evaluate the situation," said a statement issued by Macron's office on Monday.
The statement said France remained committed to working alongside countries in the region to fight against terrorist groups.
French TV station BFM reported that one French citizen had been killed in the attack, although there was no immediate, official confirmation of this fatality.
HANOI (Reuters) - The drilling ship at the centre of a row between Vietnam and China over oil prospecting in disputed waters in the South China Sea has arrived in waters off the Malaysian port of Labuan, shipping data in Thomson Reuters Eikon showed on Monday.
Drilling by the Deepsea Metro I ship was suspended in Vietnam's Block 136/3 last month after pressure from China, which says the concession operated by Spain's Repsol (REP.MC) overlaps the vast majority of the waterway that it claims as its own.
The ship, used by Norway's Odfjell Drilling Ltd. (ODLL.OL), was reported to be in Labuan at 9.17 a.m. (0117 GMT), according to shipping data in Thomson Reuters Eikon. It was last recorded at the drilling site on July 30.
Odfjell Drilling did not respond immediately to a request for comment.
The row over the drilling inflamed tensions between Vietnam and China, whose claims in the South China Sea are disputed by five Southeast Asian countries.
Repsol said last month that drilling had been suspended after the company spent $27 million on the well. Co-owners of the block are Vietnam's state oil firm and Mubadala Development Co of the United Arab Emirates.
The block lies inside the U-shaped "nine-dash line" that marks the area that China claims in the sea.
China had urged a halt to the exploration work and a diplomatic source with direct knowledge of the situation said that the decision to suspend drilling was taken after a Vietnamese delegation visited Beijing.
Vietnam has never confirmed that drilling started or that it was suspended, but last month defended its right to explore in the area.
Vietnam has emerged as the most vocal opponent of Chinese claims in the South China Sea, where more than $3 trillion in cargo passes every year, and China was also angered by Vietnam's stand at a regional meeting last week.
Vietnam held out for language that noted concern about island-building and criticised militarisation in South China Sea in the communique from foreign ministers of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN).
(To view a graphic on Deepsea Metro I, click reut.rs/2fDSUCM)
Hugh Bronstein
4 Min Read
CARACAS (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump's talk of possible military action in Venezuela could be a political lifeline for the country's unpopular leader, who has long used the threat of U.S. aggression to justify policies that have shredded the economy.
President Nicolas Maduro has continued the free-spending socialist "revolution" started by his predecessor, the late Hugo Chavez, almost 20 years ago. Key to the populist rhetoric used by both is a constant drumbeat of warnings that the U.S. "empire" is planning an invasion to steal Venezuela's oil.
That threat was laughed off by the opposition and until Friday night, when Trump said a military option was not out of the question for dealing with the Venezuelan government's crackdown on the opposition and deepening social crisis.
"He's doing Maduro a favour by reinforcing the nationalist position that the Gringos want to come and attack Venezuela. This has always been part of Maduro's rhetoric, and Chavez before him. And it has served them both well," said lawyer Luis Alberto Rodriguez while sitting at a cafe, smoking a Cuban cigar, in one of Caracas' wealthier neighbourhoods.
"It's not going to have any impact other than the government using it to further unify its people and attack the opposition," the 44-year-old added.
Maduro loyalists, who regularly insult opposition leaders as Washington's lackeys, wasted no time in pouncing.
"Mind your own business and solve your own problems, Mr. Trump!" thundered Maduro's son, also named Nicolas, at the country's new constituent assembly, which was elected last month to rewrite the constitution.
The opposition fears the assembly will remove any checks that remain on the president's powers, and critics globally have condemned it as an affront to democracy.
"If Venezuela were attacked, the rifles would arrive in New York, Mr. Trump," the younger Maduro said. "We would take the White House."
Marches against Maduro were held in Caracas on Saturday, with few confrontations with state security forces and no deaths. More than 120 have been killed in unrest since April, as the economy collapses deeper into a recession compounded by triple-digit inflation as well as food and medicine shortages.
The opposition's Democratic Unity coalition on Sunday issued a statement rejecting foreign threats to the country, without specifically identifying Trump or the United States.
"The Democratic Unity coalition rejects the use of force, or the threat of its use, by any country (against) Venezuela," said the statement published on the group's Twitter account.
The coalition added: "Venezuela has for years been militarily and politically intervened by Cuba," echoing opposition criticism that Maduro has allowed foreign allies to colonize Venezuela even has he decries U.S. imperialism.
The opposition, which controls a congress that has been neutered by Maduro's loyalist Supreme Court, boycotted last month's election of the new legislative superbody.
Opposition leaders called instead for an early presidential election, which Maduro would likely lose as his popularity gets pummelled by the country's economic woes.
"Maduro could not have asked for a greater gift from Trump," said David Smilde, senior fellow at the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights think tank. "He provided substance for Maduro's heretofore implausible conspiracy theories."
Smilde said Trump's threat of military force put the Venezuelan opposition "on its heels" after a group of Latin American governments joined last week in reprimanding Maduro for sponsoring the July 30 election of the constituent assembly.
"It has threatened to deflate the emerging regional consensus regarding Venezuela," Smilde said. "Today the countries that on Tuesday signed on to a strong statement criticizing Maduro's authoritarian direction are spending their time criticizing Trump's statements."
(Reuters) - A peaceful solution to unrest and political turmoil in Venezuela is possible, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence said on Sunday, after President Donald Trump threatened military action and sparked condemnation around the region.
Trump's surprise comments on Friday that military intervention in Venezuela was an option brought condemnation from Peru, Mexico and Colombia, usually some of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's toughest critics.
"We have many options for Venezuela, but the President also remains confident that working with all of our allies across Latin America we can achieve a peaceable solution," Pence said in Cartagena, Colombia, where he is kicking off a trip to several Latin American countries.
"We will continue to stand with free nations across our hemisphere until democracy is restored for the Venezuelan people," Pence said, striking a more conciliatory tone than Trump.
A military intervention should not even be contemplated, Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos said during the joint press conference with Pence.
However, the two leaders did discuss possible further sanctions against the socialist country, Pence said.
"President Santos and I discussed in some detail additional measures that could be taken to further pressure the regime in Venezuela economically," he said. The U.S. is "looking at a full range of additional economic sanctions," Pence added.
Trump's comments may be a political lifeline for the unpopular Maduro, who has long used the threat of U.S. aggression to justify policies that have shredded the economy.
More than 120 Venezuelans have been killed in unrest since April, as the economy collapses deeper into a recession compounded by triple-digit inflation as well as food and medicine shortages.
Ginger Gibson
3 Min Read
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump's reelection campaign released its first television advertisement on Sunday, a 30-second spot that attacks Democrats and touts the accomplishments of his first seven months in office.
The ad's release comes amid intense criticism of Trump's response to the events in Charlottesville, Virginia, where a planned rally by white supremacists led to violence that killed a counter-protester.
Speaking on Saturday from his golf resort in Bedminster, New Jersey, Trump stopped short of calling the demonstrators "white supremacists" and instead criticized groups on "many sides." Even members of his own party said he had failed to adequately condemn those behind the violence.
The new advertisement uses the same video clips, still images and font as one released earlier this year by America First Policies, a political group that is able to secretly raise and spend unlimited sums of money.  Trump's campaign and America First Policies are prohibited by law from coordinating with each other.
Trump filed for reelection the day he took office, an unusual move that has allowed him to begin campaigning long before the November 2020 election. Historically, incumbent presidents have waited two years, until after the midterm elections, to file formally.
Trump's campaign did not respond to a request for comment about how much money it was spending on the ad, where it was running or why it decided to release it this weekend.
The ad says Trump has created jobs and helped the stock market since taking office.
"The president's enemies don't want him to succeed, but Americans are saying, 'Let President Trump do his job,'" the advertisement states.
Trump continues to struggle with low approval numbers, and the television ad could be an attempt to bolster his support. His campaign has raised more than $12 million since the beginning of the year.
"This new campaign ad speaks directly to the American people and sets the record straight, reminding them that President Donald Trump will not stop fighting for them and will not allow anyone to stand in his way to deliver success for them,” campaign manager Michael Glassner said in a statement announcing the ad.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
ANKARA (Reuters) - A Turkish national was among those killed in the attack in Burkina Faso by suspected jihadists, Turkey's foreign ministry said on Monday.
It said another Turk was wounded in Sunday's raid on a restaurant in Burkina Faso's capital, which killed at least 17 people.
The gunmen attacked the Aziz Istanbul restaurant in central Ouagadougou late on Sunday. Burkina Faso security forces killed three of the suspected jihadist attackers, but there are still people trapped inside the building, the Communications Minister said on state TV on Monday.
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Chinese military aircraft conducted a third day of training near Taiwan on Monday after doing close flybys of the island over the weekend, Taiwan's Ministry of Defense said.
Two Chinese military transport aircraft flew through the Bashi Channel that separates Taiwan from the Philippines, then took different courses before returning to base, the ministry said.
China has been increasingly asserting itself in territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. It is also worried about Taiwan, which it claims as its own, but which is run by a government China fears is intent on independence.
Taiwan's military closely monitored the Chinese aircraft and the situation was under control, the ministry said.
"Our military has monitored the movements of the Chinese aircraft from the beginning to the end and were prepared for any contingency based on our rules of engagement," it said in a statement.
After the two aircraft flew through the Bashi Channel, one took a northeasterly direction and passed over waters near Japan's Miyako island to Taiwan's north before returning to its base, the ministry said.
The other flew in a southeasterly direction before it too returned to base the way it had come.
China's defence ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the past three days of drills.
China conducted air exercises near Taiwan over the weekend, the latest in a series of such exercises near Taiwan and Japan in the past several weeks.
China considers self-ruled Taiwan to be a renegade province, and has never ruled out the option to regain control of the island by force if necessary.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
PARIS (Reuters) - The local French embassy in Burkina Faso is in contact with local authorities regarding the attack on a restaurant and French citizens are advised to avoid the area, the French foreign ministry said in a statement.
"Our embassy is being kept informed of the situation due to permanent contact with local authorities," the foreign ministry said in the statement.
Suspected jihadists killed at least 17 people and wounded eight during a raid on a restaurant in Burkina Faso's capital, the communications minister said, as security forces sought to free people still trapped inside on Monday.
Bernie Woodall
3 Min Read
(Reuters) - Heather Heyer came to downtown Charlottesville with her friends to make a stand against white nationalists who converged on the Virginia college town to demand the city keep a statue honouring a Confederate war hero, her boss said on Sunday.
The 32-year-old paralegal wanted to send a clear message to the neo-Nazis and Ku Klux Klan sympathizers who planned to stage one of the largest far-right rallies in recent U.S. history that people abhor their views in the city where she was born, he said.
But her decision to join counter-protesters on Saturday resulted in tragedy when a 20-year-old Ohio man drove his car at high speed into a line of marchers, killing Heyer and injuring at least 19 others.
A strong sense of social justice was a constant theme in Heyer's personal and working life, said Alfred Wilson, bankruptcy division manager at the Miller Law Group.
"There have been times that I've walked back to her office and she had tears in her eyes" for various injustices she saw in the world, said Wilson, such as the time she was weeping after reading anti-Muslim comments online, Wilson said.
Heyer was "a very strong, very opinionated young woman" who "made known that she was all about equality," he told Reuters on Sunday.
The two have worked closely since Heyer joined the firm a little more than five years ago.
"Purple was her favourite colour," said Wilson, recalling that Heyer shared a duplex apartment in Charlottesville with a beloved pet Chihuahua named Violet. "She would wear purple a lot, and she would wear it every day if she could get away with it."
Born in Charlottesville, the home of the University of Virginia's main campus, Heyer was raised in a nearby town and graduated from William Monroe High School in Stanardsville.
A big part of Heyer's job was to help people who were trying to avoid being evicted from their homes, or have their cars repossessed, or needed help paying medical bills, he said.
Heyer was a supporter of Bernie Sanders, who ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination won by Hillary Clinton, Wilson said.
As a white woman, she thought it unfair that she enjoyed liberties that Wilson, as a black man, did not, he said.
"You're college-educated, but if you walk into the store you may have people following you, and it's not fair," Wilson quoted Heyer as having said to him often.
Heyer, said Wilson, was strongly opposed to President Donald Trump, and she also spoke out against Jason Kessler, the blogger who organised the "Unite the Right" rally that was broken up before it began on Saturday.
"A big thing that bothered Heather was this whole past election," said Wilson. "She would literally sit in the office and cry at times because she was worried about what was going to happen to the country."
(This story was refiled to corrects garbled sentence in eighth paragraph)
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
(Reuters) - The web hosting company GoDaddy said on Sunday it had given The Daily Stormer 24 hours to move its domain to another provider after the extremist web site posted an article denigrating the woman who was killed at a white nationalist rally in Virginia.
"We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service," GoDaddy posted on its official Twitter page.
The Daily Stormer post in question denigrated Heather Heyer,  32, who was fatally struck by a car allegedly driven by a man with white nationalist views, for her physical appearance and what it said were anti-white male views.
The Daily Stormer is a neo-Nazi, white supremacist website associated with the alt-right movement, which was spearheading the rally on Saturday in Charlottesville, Virginia which resulted in violence, including Heyer's death.
GoDaddy, founded in 1997 and based in Arizona, has some 6,000 employees worldwide.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) - Burkina Faso security forces killed three suspected jihadist attackers at a restaurant in central Ouagadougou but there are still people trapped inside the building, the Communications Minister Remi Dandjinou said on state TV on Monday.
The gunmen have killed at least 17 people and wounded eight since attacking the Aziz Istanbul restaurant in the city centre late on Sunday.
Reuters Staff
3 Min Read
MOGADISHU (Reuters) - A former Somali insurgent leader, Mukhtar Robow Abu Mansur, has defected to the government, a military official said on Sunday, severing ties with Islamist group al Shabaab.
Al Shabaab fell out with its former spokesman and deputy leader Robow in 2013 and he has been laying low in the jungles with his forces since then. The Islamists have launched multiple attacks to try kill or capture him.
An army official said in June there were negotiations between the government and Robow but there were no guarantees that he would defect. He said it had sent soldiers to try to defend him.
"Robow and his seven bodyguards are now in Hudur with local officials. He will be flown to Mogadishu soon," Colonel Nur Mohamed, a Somali military officer, told Reuters by phone from the southwestern town of Hudur.
His defection comes two months after the United States removed a $5 million reward for his capture and took him off its list of sponsors of terrorism after five years. It was not immediately clear if the timing of the defection was linked.
Nonetheless, it could give pro-government forces more freedom to operate in the regions of Bay and Bakool, slicing al Shabaab's operational territory in two.
It was not immediately clear what would now happen to Robow, but residents and an analyst were doubtful over the impact of the move.
"It is not a good news. The government should eliminate Robow and the militants who fight him. Otherwise it is recycling the insurgency and militants," resident Mohamed Edin, told Reuters.
Mohamed Aden, a history lecturer at a Mogadishu university, told Reuters: "If criminals are not taken to court, then there will be no peace."
Al Shabaab has been fighting for years to try to topple Somalia's central government and rule the Horn of Africa country according to their own interpretation of sharia law.
The militants, who are allied with al Qaeda, were driven out of the capital Mogadishu in 2011. They have also since lost nearly all other territory they previously controlled after an offensive by Somali government troops and African Union-mandated AMISOM peacekeepers.
Al Shabaab, however, remains a formidable threat and frequently carries out bombings both in Mogadishu and other towns against both military and civilian targets.
(This story was refiled to correct name of second reporting credit to Abdi Sheikh from Abdi Guled)
RIYADH (Reuters) - A group of Twitter users will be indicted in Saudi Arabia on charges of harming public order for threatening the "safety and moderate ideology of society" through extremism, according to a statement on state news agency SPA.
The country's chief prosecutor summoned the Twitter users on Sunday, the statement said, without naming them or specifying how many were accused.
A spokesman for the Ministry of Culture and Information had earlier tweeted that a radical Sunni cleric, Ali al-Rabieei, had been referred to a "publication crimes" committee for unspecified violations.
Ministry officials did not respond to requests for comment on whether Rabieei was among the group.
Saudi Arabia has stepped up efforts to muffle political dissent in recent years, using tough new cybercrime laws to sentence offenders to prison terms for online posts deemed insulting to rulers or threatening to public order.
In a separate statement, Public Prosecutor Sheikh Saud bin Abdullah al-Muajab said he respected freedom of opinion but asserted his office's power to pursue cases against those who promote hatred or sectarianism, or mislead public opinion.
Rabieei's tweets largely consist of broadsides against Shi'ites, a minority group in Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia. One tweet refers to the core Shi'ite belief that the prophet's son-in-law was his rightful successor as "one of the Jew's tricks."
He issued a statement on Twitter declaring his commitment to publication laws, "if they are not contrary to the Quran, the Sunna, or statements made by senior scholars Bin Baz, Bin Uthaymin or the Council of Senior Scholars."
Religious scholars from the official Wahhabi school of Sunni Islam, like those named by Rabieei, hold influential semi-legal roles in the kingdom. The Quran and the Sunna, or sayings of the prophet, are the country's constitution.
Many members of the state-employed clergy have long taught that Shi'ism is heretical. Last year, Saudi Arabia's grand mufti, the kingdom's top religious authority, said the leaders of Iran, Saudi Arabia's regional Shi'ite rival, were not Muslims.
But as the kingdom's Shi'ites have come under attack by Islamic State jihadists since 2013, authorities have also made efforts to curb open incitement and sectarianism, including arrests for anti-Shi'ite social media posts.
ROME (Reuters) - Two more aid groups have suspended migrant rescues in the Mediterranean, joining Doctors Without Borders, because they felt threatened by the Libyan coastguard.
Save the Children and Germany's Sea Eye said on Sunday their crews could no longer work safely because of the hostile stance of the Libyan authorities. Doctors Without Borders - or Medecins sans Frontieres - cited the same concern when it said on Saturday it would halt Mediterranean operations.
"We leave a deadly gap in the Mediterranean," Sea Eye's founder Michael Busch Heuer warned on Facebook, adding that Libya had issued an "explicit threat" against non-government organisations operating in the area around its coast.
Libyan coastguard boats have repeatedly clashed with NGO vessels on the edge of Libyan waters, sometimes opening fire. The coastguard has defended such actions, saying the shooting was to assert control over rescue operations.
"In general, we do not reject (NGO) presence, but we demand from them more cooperation with the state of Libya ... they should show more respect to the Libyan sovereignty," coastguard spokesman Ayoub Qassem told Reuters on Sunday.
Tension has also been growing for weeks between aid groups and the Italian government, which has suggested some NGOs are facilitating people smuggling, while Italy is trying to enhance the role of the Libyan coastguard in blocking migrant departures.
This month, Italy began a naval mission in Libyan waters to provide technical and operational support to its coastguard, despite opposition from factions in eastern Libya that oppose the U.N.-backed government based in Tripoli.
Immigration is dominating Italy's political agenda before elections early next year, with public opinion increasingly hostile to migrants. Almost 600,000 migrants have arrived in Italy over the past four years.
Most sailed from lawless Libya in flimsy vessels operated by people smugglers. More than 13,000 migrants have died trying to make the crossing.
Ships manned by charities have played a growing role in rescues, picking up more than a third of all migrants brought ashore so far this year, compared with less than one percent in 2014.
Aid groups and some Italian politicians warn that migrants intercepted by the Libyan coast guard are taken back to inhuman conditions in detention camps on the Libyan mainland.
However, prosecutors in Sicily have opened investigations against some NGOs, which they suspect of collaborating with people smugglers, and Rome has proposed a Code of Conduct setting stricter rules on how the groups can operate.
Italian Foreign Minister Angelino Alfano said in a newspaper interview on Sunday that Libya's growing role in controlling its waters was curbing people trafficking and producing a welcome "readjustment" in the Mediterranean.
MSF's decision to halt its rescue operations was part of this positive process, he told the newspaper La Stampa.
Save the Children said its rescue ship, the Vos Hestia, would dock in Malta until it received assurances about the intentions of the Libyan authorities.
Libya was trying to increase the range of the waters its ships controlled from 12 nautical miles around its coast to 70 nautical miles, the humanitarian organisation said.
"The necessary pause in operations from charity rescue ships likes ours and others will undoubtedly put lives at risk," its operations director, Rob MacGillivray, warned.
Libyan coastguard officials have previously said they have rights over operations dozens of miles beyond the territorial limit of 12 nautical miles, without clearly detailing the claims to such rights or how they could be enforced.
(This version of the story corrects name of German group to Sea Eye)
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
LIMA (Reuters) - Approval of Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski fell five points to a record low this month on a weak economy and a rash of labour strikes, a poll showed on Sunday.
Kuczynski's approval fell to 29 percent in August from 34 percent in July, its third consecutive decline, pollster Ipsos Peru said in a survey published in national newspaper El Comercio. Disapproval of the 78-year-old president, a former Wall Street banker and World Bank economist, climbed six points to 64 percent.
"The survey finds the reasons for this disapproval to be disillusionment at the first year of the government and a wave of strikes that the country has faced," Ipsos Peru Director Alfredo Torres told the paper.
Peru's economy over the last year has suffered because of massive floods, as well as fallout from a major corruption scandal involving Brazilian builder Odebrecht [ODBES.UL]. In the last month, doctors, teachers, miners and other groups have gone on strike, further damaging the reputation of the centrist leader.
The strikes "are probably the main explanation for the malaise that this poll shows," Torres said, emphasizing that approval of the nation's economy and education ministers fell as well.
In an interview on Friday, Kuczynski told Reuters that recovering internal credit and increasing prices for key exports copper and gold would likely boost economic growth in the coming months.
The Ipsos Peru poll surveyed 1,298 people between August 9 and 11. It has a margin of error of 2.7 percentage points.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - The leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah on Sunday dismissed the prospect of tougher U.S. sanctions against his group, which is backed by Iran, and said the U.S. administration had no way to harm it.
"The American administration, with all available and possible means, will not be able to damage the strength of the resistance," Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised address to mark the anniversary of the end of Hezbollah's 2006 war with Israel.
Nasrallah said Lebanon was being subjected to intimidation and threats over Hezbollah - which is part of the Beirut government but classified as a terrorist group by Washington - and alleged that Lebanese officials had been told that Israel could launch a war.
European and American officials had warned them "during diplomatic meetings and international visits ... if you don't do this, Israel will launch a war on Lebanon, and if Hezbollah doesn't do this, Israel will launch a war on Lebanon", Nasrallah said. He did not spell out what had been asked of Lebanon or Hezbollah.
Tensions between Israel and Hezbollah, a well armed Shi'ite movement, have risen this year. Nasrallah has played down the prospect of a war while simultaneously warning Israel against a conflict.
Trump last month called Hezbollah a "menace" to the Lebanese people and to the entire region during a news conference with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri.
U.S. lawmakers last month introduced legislation seeking to increase sanctions on Hezbollah by further restricting its ability to raise money and recruit and by increasing pressure on banks that do business with it, though it was not clear when or if it would come to a vote.
Officials in Lebanon have raised concerns that any widening of the U.S. sanctions could damage their banking industry.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Two U.S. service members were killed and five injured during  combat operations in northern Iraq on Sunday, the military said, adding that initial reports indicated the incident was not due to enemy contact.
In a statement the military said the incident was under investigation. The service members were part of a U.S.-led  coalition fighting the Islamic State in Iraq.
"The entire counter-ISIS Coalition sends our deepest condolences to these heroes' families, friends and teammates," said Lieutenant General Stephen Townsend, commander of the Combined Joint Task Force - Operation Inherent Resolve.
"I hope there is some small solace in knowing their loss has meaning for our country and all the nations of the Coalition as the fallen service members were fighting to defeat a truly evil enemy and to protect our homelands."
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
CAIRO (Reuters) - The head of Egypt's railway authority, Medhat Shousha, has resigned following a train collision in Alexandria that killed at least 41 people, Transport Minister Hisham Arafat told reporters on Sunday.
A prosecutor had earlier ordered the detention of both train drivers and their assistants for 15 days, the state news agency MENA said.
In addition to the deaths, at least 133 people were injured when the two trains collided in the coastal city on Friday, the latest in a string of crashes on an antiquated transport network that have outraged the public.
Egyptians have long complained that successive governments have failed to enforce basic safeguards for the railways.
A witness said the trains rose into the air, "forming a pyramid", as they slammed into each other just outside a suburban station.
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has ordered an inquiry into the crash. MENA said blood and urine samples had been taken from one driver to check for drug use.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. intelligence official said on Sunday he would not be surprised if North Korea tested another missile, given that it had two tests in July, amid rising tensions between the two nations.
U.S. President Donald Trump has offered fiery warnings for North Korea, saying that the U.S. military was "locked and loaded." North Korean officials in turn have accused the U.S. leader of driving the Korean peninsula to the brink of nuclear war.
“I am quite confident that (North Korean leader Kim Jong Un) will continue to try to develop his missile program, so it wouldn’t surprise me if there was another missile test," U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Pompeo said on "Fox News Sunday."
North Korea said on Thursday that plans would be completed by mid-August to fire four intermediate-range missiles to land near the U.S. Pacific island of Guam, 3,500 km (2,175 miles) away.
Guam, some 7,000 km from the U.S. mainland, is a target because it is home to U.S. Naval and Air Force bases, from which two B-1B supersonic bombers were deployed close to the Korean peninsula on Tuesday.
Trump wrote on Twitter on Friday that U.S. "military solutions are now fully in place, locked and loaded, should North Korea act unwisely."
Referring to Kim, Trump added: "If he utters one threat ... or if he does anything with respect to Guam or any place else that's an American territory or an American ally, he will truly regret it, and he will regret it fast."
Trump has urged China to apply more pressure on North Korea.
He is expected on Monday to launch a trade investigation into China.
White House officials have insisted the investigation was not designed to apply additional pressure on China as it relates to North Korea despite the president's previous remarks that he would be more amenable on trade if China stopped Pyongyang's nuclear program.
Trump has also insisted that "nobody loves a peaceful solution better than President Trump."
Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, frequently a critic of the president, said he supported his approach to North Korea so far.
“I don’t think military action is imminent, but we’re on a collision course with North Korea,” Graham said on "Fox News Sunday." “I think it’s absolutely the right rhetoric. I have President Trump’s back on this."
The world has continued to watch the manoeuvring closely.
This weekend, German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel urged the United States and South Korea to make their planned joint military exercise "as unprovocative as possible."
In an interview with German newspaper group RND, Gabriel said the manoeuvres "could lead to North Korea using the opportunity for renewed provocation, for example, by firing an intermediate-range missile at Guam."
A "spiral of violence" could quickly follow, he said.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga called on Sunday for a strike to support his claim to the presidency and accused the ruling party of "spilling the blood of innocent people" as he brushed off growing pressure to concede election defeat.
The election commission on Friday declared President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner of the presidential poll by 1.4 million votes. International observers said Tuesday's vote was largely fair and a parallel tally by domestic monitors supported the outcome.
But Odinga's NASA coalition says the whole vote was rigged, and that Kenyatta's ruling Jubilee party has conspired with security forces to crush dissent.
Odinga doubled down on his attacks in a speech to 4,000 cheering supporters in Kibera, Nairobi's biggest slum.
"Jubilee have spilt the blood of innocent people. Tomorrow there is no work," Odinga told the crowd, which chanted back  "Uhuru must go". He promised to announce a new strategy on Tuesday.
Senator James Orengo, one of Odinga's chief supporters, said the opposition would call for demonstrations.
"When we people call you to action, peaceful action, don't stay behind," he told the crowd. He also called for a boycott of Nation television and newspapers, Kenya's largest independent media group, over their coverage of the disputed elections.
The rally, Odinga's first public appearance since Thursday, made clear he has no plans to renounce his claims of victory despite calls from the international community for him to concede.
Police and protesters clashed repeatedly in Nairobi's slums on Saturday. Presidential spokesman Manoah Esipisu laid the blame at Odinga's door.
"The violent protests are unlawful," he said in a statement. "The police will not tolerate breaches of the peace. Instead they will protect the lives and property of Kenyans, and they will restore law and order."
After Kibera, Odinga went to Mathare, another Nairobi slum, to see the family of an eight-year-old girl killed, according to a witness, by a stray police bullet. Police have confirmed the death and said they are investigating.
As Odinga left Mathare, police fired tear gas to disperse hundreds of his supporters, who had climbed trees and rooftops to get a glimpse of their hero.
Reuters reporters have seen police repeatedly fire tear gas and live rounds to disperse crowds of people in slums. Police have also detained and attacked journalists.
At least 24 people have been killed in election-related unrest so far, a rights group said on Saturday, including the girl in Mathare. The Kenya Red Cross said on Saturday it had treated 93 injured people.
Sunday was largely peaceful, to the relief of Kenyans who fear a repeat of the ethnic carnage that followed 2007's disputed vote.
Around 1,200 people were killed then and 600,000 displaced. Regional trade was also paralysed and Kenya's economy - the region's biggest - took years to recover.
Some Odinga supporters are convinced that victory was stolen from them in the 2007 and 2013 polls, both marred by irregularities and problems. Odinga contested both, and lost, and his supporters say they will not back down this time.
"We are sick and tired of these people stealing the country from us. We need to split this country in two," said David Orwa, 44, hinting at the ethnic rifts that lie beneath the surface of the nation of 45 million.
Odinga is a Luo, an ethnic group from the west that has long felt neglected by central government and excluded from power. Kenyatta is a Kikuyu, a tribe that has provided three out of Kenya's four presidents since it gained independence from Britain in 1963.
Diplomats and regional leaders are presenting a united stance in urging Odinga, a former political prisoner, to concede.
"I want to congratulate Uhuru Kenyatta," Federica Mogherini, foreign minister for the European Union, which did over $3 billion worth of trade with Kenya last year, said.
"In line with the African Union, the EU expects the opposition to respect the results and to use legal means available for appeals and complaints."
A Western diplomat said the international community was not interested in revisiting a power-sharing deal to end the unrest and stalemate, as happened a decade ago. That avenue was "not an option", the diplomat said.
"If you have evidence that the election was rigged, produce it," he said.
"Most of the stuff NASA are alleging is not accurate."
Initially, the coalition charged the electoral server had been hacked, and produced 50 pages of computer logs that security experts said were inconclusive at best.
They later said a secret source within the electoral board had passed them the true election results. That two-page document was debunked by the election commission, which pointed out basic mathematical errors.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga urged supporters to stay away from work on Monday and accused the government of having planned to rig elections and murder his supporters.
"(The) Jubilee (party) have spilt the blood of innocent people. Tomorrow there is no work," Odinga told a crowd of around 4,000 cheering supporters in Kibera, Nairobi's biggest slum.
He was speaking after anger erupted in Kenya following President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election last week.
WARSAW (Reuters) - Five people, including two teenage girl scouts, died and more than 30 were injured as a result of falling trees in a series of severe storms that hit Poland overnight.
The girls, 13 and 14, were crushed by falling trees while sleeping in a tent when a storm hit their campground late on Friday in the Tuchola Forest in northern Poland, according to the Regional Crisis Management Team office in Gdansk.
Some 20 scouts were injured and taken to local hospitals.
Adam Kralisz, chairman of the Lodz Region of the Scouting Association of the Republic (Poland), where the scouts were from, told the private Polsat television that evacuation was ordered immediately, but conditions were horrendous.
"We had to force our way for kilometres through the forest, among falling trees," he said.
Three other victims also died as a result of falling trees and 10 people were injured in separate incidents in Poland's north.
More than 170,000 people were left without power and 800 buildings were damaged in storms that hit mostly Poland's north and west, according to the Regional Crisis Management Team in Gdansk.
More storms were expected on Saturday and warnings of severe weather conditions were issued for a number of regions amid unusually high for Poland temperatures that on Friday reached 35 to 38 Celsius.
An emergency meeting of the government's Crisis Management Team was called on Saturday and Prime Minister Beata Szydlo promised to help all those in need.
Grzegorz Nowik, head of the Scouting Association of the Republic (Poland), ordered a month of mourning for the organisation.
Chris Mfula
5 Min Read
LUSAKA (Reuters) - Zambia plans to drop treason charges against the country's main opposition leader and free him from prison on Monday under a deal brokered by the Commonwealth secretary-general, government and legal sources told Reuters.
    The United Party for National Development (UPND) leader Hakainde Hichilema and five others were arrested in April and charged with treason after Hichilema's convoy failed to make way for President Edgar Lungu's motorcade.
Hichilema's trial had been due to begin on Monday in the capital Lusaka but two sources said the prosecution would apply to the court to discontinue the case.
    The case has stoked political tensions in Zambia, seen as one of Africa's more stable and functional democracies, following a bruising election last year.
Commonwealth Secretary-General Patricia Scotland visited Zambia last week and told reporters she had met Lungu and Hichilema separately and that the two leaders had agreed to a process of dialogue facilitated by her office.
    "That process of dialogue, which the Commonwealth Secretary-General Baroness Patricia Scotland is leading with the help of Catholic bishops, starts with the release of the opposition leader from prison," a government source told Reuters on Sunday, referring to local religious leaders.
    "The state will discontinue the treason case in the public interest as both the opposition leader and the head of state are committed to burying their past and starting dialogue envisaged to help address some of the issues the opposition raised after the 2016 elections so that the 2021 elections are better held."
A spokesman for the UPND said the party was unaware of any plan to release Hichilema.
"We don't have anything on that. We are not privy to the agreement that was entered into between the two leaders and therefore can only wait for tomorrow," UPND spokesman Charles Kakoma said.
The UPND later said that Hichilema and his co-accused were transferred from Mukobeko Maximum Prison - about 130 km (81 miles) north of the capital - to Lusaka Central Prison.
"They were airlifted this morning and have arrived safely in Lusaka," the party said.
    The government source said Lungu is committed to all aspects of the dialogue agreed between the president and the opposition leader, which include promoting peace, stability and public good.
    "An overt act serious enough to warrant prosecution exists but the public interest seems to be the overriding consideration, so a nolle prosequi will be entered," a public prosecutor told Reuters, using the legal term for the discharge of a case.
    The southern African country has always been relatively stable but relations between the government and the opposition have been fraught since August when Lungu's Patriotic Front (PF) beat the UPND in a presidential election marred by violence and which the opposition says was rigged.
It was the second time that Lungu beat Hichilema, an economist and businessman popularly known by his initials "HH", in a presidential election by a razor-thin margin.
Lee Habasonda, a political science lecturer at the University of Zambia, said Hichilema's release would ease political tension, improve Zambia's image with investors and end mounting international pressure on Lungu's government.
"In the face of Zambia seeking international assistance, it is time to make such a move because the state does not lose anything by releasing the opposition leader and dealing with him in other ways," Habasonda told Reuters.
In June, church leaders including those from the influential Catholic church, called for Hichilema's release.
Last month Lungu invoked emergency powers to deal with "acts of sabotage" by his political opponents, after fire gutted the country's biggest market.
Under emergency laws police can prohibit public meetings, detain suspects longer than usual, search without a warrant, close roads, impose curfews and restrict certain people's movements.
The UPND has said Lungu's use of emergency powers is unnecessary and a ploy to make it easier for police to arrest its supporters.
On Thursday police freed another opposition leader, United Progressive Party leader Saviour Chishimba, after holding him in detention for a week on accusations of defaming Lungu, an offence that carries a maximum five-year prison term.
Chishimba hit the headlines in July after criticizing Lungu's decision to impose emergency powers and suggesting the president should go to hospital for mental tests.
When he invoked the emergency powers, Lungu said the measure would safeguard investments in the country, which is Africa's second-biggest copper producer and is currently in talks with the International Monetary Fund over a financial aid package. The president said the IMF was free to terminate the negotiations if it considered his actions were wrong.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Yemen's central bank has complained to its allies in a Saudi-led military coalition about a lack of cash deliveries needed to pay salaries, in a sign of the government's struggle to keep the war-torn country's economy afloat.
There are two opposing central banks in Yemen - an internationally recognised one in the southern city of Aden and another in the capital Sanaa in territory run by the government's foes in the armed Houthi movement.
Both suffer from depleted reserves but play a key role in mitigating widespread famine and disease, after two years of fighting, by paying some public sector salaries.
But the Aden bank said in a statement late on Saturday that the Saudi-led coalition had not given landing permits for air shipments of cash 13 times for unknown reasons - in a rare airing of a grievance by the government to its main backer.
"The (bank) faces extreme difficulties ... because of the hindrance in delivering these funds by air to Aden airport by the coalition for unknown reasons," the bank said.
"This creates dangerous strangulation for the Yemeni economy in providing liquidity for the crisis," it added. It did not say which currency the deliveries would be.
Saudi Arabia and its mostly Gulf Arab allies control Yemen's air space, a measure they say aims to prevent Iran delivering arms shipments to the Houthis - a charge the Houthis deny.
A spokesman for the coalition did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.
Forces loyal to President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi wrested Aden and several southern provinces from the Houthis in the summer of 2015 but have struggled to impose stability and the government still operates mostly from exile in the Saudi capital Riyadh.
Militants and gunmen continue to operate in many southern areas, and banks in Aden closed for three days in protest last month after a spate of armed robberies.
Teis Jensen and Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen
2 Min Read
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Danish police said on Sunday they had found nobody in the wreck of a submarine owned by an inventor charged with the manslaughter of a woman who had been on board - but added the vessel seemed to have been deliberately sunk.
Police have said that Swedish journalist Kim Wall, 30, is missing after taking a ride on Peter Madsen's homemade 17-metre sub, which sank on Friday morning. Madsen was rescued by the navy.
Madsen, 46, has been ordered to be held in custody for 24 days, accused of Wall's manslaughter.
The vessel was recovered on Saturday from Koge Bay, south of Copenhagen, where it had been lying at a depth of seven metres, and taken into harbour. Police searched it late on Saturday and early on Sunday.
"There are no persons in the submarine, dead or alive," Jens Moller, head of Copenhagen Police's homicide unit, said at a news conference on Sunday.
He said it appeared to have been deliberately scuttled, and was still being treated as a possible crime scene.
Madsen, an entrepreneur, artist, submarine builder and aerospace engineer, went before a judge on Saturday behind closed doors for preliminary questioning. His defence lawyer, Betina Hald Engmark, told Reuters he denied the charges.
Police said on Friday the inventor had told them he dropped Wall off from his submarine in Copenhagen on Thursday night. On Sunday they said they had since been given another explanation by Madsen, but declined to elaborate.
Police in Sweden said they had tried without success to contact Wall by phone and that her family had not heard from her.
The submarine, UC3 Nautilus, is one of three constructed by Madsen. It can carry eight people.
Reuters Staff
3 Min Read
VIENNA (Reuters) - Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has accused his successor Angela Merkel of neglecting her duties by going on holiday rather than chairing talks on diesel car emissions aimed at repairing the vital auto industry's battered reputation.
Merkel's conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU) has a commanding lead in opinion polls ahead of a parliamentary election on Sept. 24. But her government has come under mounting pressure for not doing enough to crack down on vehicle pollution after an emissions scandal and for being too close to carmakers.
At a "diesel summit" in Berlin on Aug. 2, while Merkel was on a three-week holiday, politicians and carmakers agreed to overhaul engine software on 5.3 million diesel cars.
But environmentalists immediately dismissed the plan - almost two years after Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) admitted to cheating U.S. diesel emissions tests - as too little, too late.
"I don't want to spoil anyone's holiday. But here I would have taken charge personally. It is all far too important," Schroeder, a Social Democrat who was replaced by Merkel after a narrow election defeat in 2005, said in an interview with Swiss tabloid newspaper Blick which was published on Sunday.
Ministers have been wary of angering the owners of 15 million diesel vehicles and damaging an industry that is the country's biggest exporter and provides about 800,000 jobs. At this month's meeting, politicians stopped short of demanding costlier mechanical modifications to engine and exhaust systems.
Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks, also a Social Democrat, accused the VDA car industry association of lacking humility for the way it trumpeted the deal.
Schroeder, a former member of Volkswagen's supervisory board, said that had he been in Merkel's shoes he would taken a more muscular approach.
"What I took away from the media was that one manager or another definitely behaved arrogantly (at the diesel summit). I would not have put up with that. I would have thrown them out of the meeting," he was quoted as saying.
Although Merkel's party is well clear of its nearest rival, Martin Schulz's Social Democrats, an opinion poll published on Thursday suggested her popularity had dropped 10 percentage points to 59 percent.
Days later, back from holiday and kicking off her campaign, Merkel launched a stinging attack on German auto executives, pressing them to innovate to secure jobs, and win back trust lost by the diesel emissions scandal.
YANGON (Reuters) - Hundreds of Buddhists took to the streets in western Myanmar on Sunday to protest against aid organisations they accuse of giving support to Muslim Rohingya militants, police and a protest leader said.
Buddhist monks and members of the Rakhine ethnic group held demonstrations in 15 towns, including the Rakhine state capital of Sittwe, demanding that aid agencies leave the western state immediately, Htay Aung, a self-described leader of the protests, told Reuters by phone.
“We will protest again and again until we get our demands. If the government fails to act, that is their responsibility,” he said.
Tensions have risen once again in Rakhine since seven Buddhists were found hacked to death in the mountains in the north of the state in July.
The government said it had discovered forest encampments that proved Muslim "extremists" were responsible for the killings, and the military sent additional forces to the area this week.
At one suspected militant camp last month, biscuits originating from the United Nations' World Food Programme were discovered. Ethnic Rakhine Buddhists have long accused U.N. and other aid organisations of favouring the Rohingya with aid.
The state was plunged into violence in October, when Rohingya insurgents killed nine border police, sparking a crackdown in which government security forces were accused of raping, killing and torturing Rohingya civilians.
About 1.1 million Rohingya Muslims live in Rakhine, but are denied citizenship and face restrictions on their movements and access to basic services. About 120,000 remain in camps set up after deadly violence swept the state in 2012, where they rely on aid agencies for basic provisions.
Pictures shared online of Sunday’s protests showed saffron-robed monks holdings signs reading, “We don’t need terrorist supporter group,” and calling for the U.N. and international non-governmental organizations (INGOs) to “get out”.
Htay Aung said the protesters demanded that the government rid the state of Muslim militants, quickly verify the citizenship credentials of Muslims and allow Rakhine Buddhists to form armed militias.
Police Major Cho Lwin estimated that about 600 people protested in Sittwe.
“The protest went ahead today peacefully,” he said, adding that police had stepped up security and blocked roads leading to aid offices.
Reuters obtained the text of note sent by the U.N. on Wednesday to the 300 or so U.N. staff in Rakhine, as well as INGOs, warning of rising hostility to international agencies in the state.
KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Torrential rain battered Nepal on Sunday, causing widespread flooding and landslides and raising the death toll from three days of severe weather to 49 people, according to officials.
The toll could go higher as three dozen people were reported missing. Another 17 were injured.
The heavy rain, which mainly hit the country’s southern plains, led to the evacuation of 5,000 people, a Home Ministry official said.
More than 30 people were reported dead on Saturday.
Army and police personnel continued search and rescue operations, with more than 34,000 houses submerged, the official added.
"The number of dead could increase as we are still compiling the final tally," said Laxmi Pun, an aide to Home Minister Janardan Sharma, told Reuters.
The Red Cross estimated 100,000 people were affected by the disaster, with one official describing how the storm had cut off communication and electricity, adding to the challenges in rescuing people and distributing aid supplies such as food and water to displaced people.
Monsoon rains which start in June and continue through September are important for farm-dependent Nepal, but they also cause havoc each year.
BEDMINSTER, N.J./BEIJING (Reuters) - China's President Xi Jinping said there needs to be a peaceful resolution to the North Korean nuclear issue, and in a telephone call with U.S. President Donald Trump he urged all sides to avoid words or action that raise tensions.
Xi's comments came hours after Trump warned North Korea that the U.S. military was "locked and loaded" as Pyongyang accused the U.S. leader of driving the Korean peninsula to the brink of nuclear war.
The Pentagon said the United States and South Korea would proceed as planned with a joint military exercise in 10 days, an action sure to further antagonise North Korea.
China's foreign ministry said in a statement that Xi told Trump a peaceful resolution to the North Korean nuclear issue was essential, and urged calm.
"Concerned parties must exercise restraint and avoid remarks and actions that escalate tensions on the Korean peninsula," it cited Xi as saying.
In their phone call, Trump and Xi "agreed North Korea must stop its provocative and escalatory behaviour," the White House said in a statement, and reiterated their mutual commitment to denuclearize the Korean peninsula. It added the relationship between Trump and Xi was "extremely close" and "will hopefully lead to a peaceful resolution of the North Korea problem."
Trump, vacationing at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf resort, earlier took to Twitter to warn North Korean leader Kim Jong Un that U.S. "military solutions are now fully in place, locked and loaded, should North Korea act unwisely".
Again referring to Kim, Trump added, "If he utters one threat ... or if he does anything with respect to Guam or any place else that's an American territory or an American ally, he will truly regret it, and he will regret it fast."
In remarks to reporters on Friday after a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, Trump said the situation with North Korea was "very dangerous and it will not continue".
He added, "We will see what happens. We think that lots of good things could happen, and we could also have a bad solution."
Despite the tough rhetoric, Trump insisted that "nobody loves a peaceful solution better than President Trump."
South Korea's presidential Blue House said in a statement on Saturday the United States and China were working to resolve the North Korea crisis, and it hoped the two leaders' phone call "will be able to resolve the peak of tension and act as a catalyst for the situation to move on to a new dimension."
Guam, the Pacific island that is a U.S. territory and home to a U.S. air base, a Navy installation, a Coast Guard group and around 6,000 U.S. military personnel, posted emergency guidelines on Friday to help residents prepare for any potential nuclear attack.
North Korean state news agency KCNA said on Thursday the North Korean army would complete plans in mid-August to fire four intermediate-range missiles over Japan to land in the sea 18 to 25 miles (30 to 40 km) from Guam.
Japan's government decided to deploy its Patriot missile defence system to four locations in the west of the country, media reported. No one at Japan's defence ministry was available to comment on Saturday.
The governor of Guam, Eddie Baza Calvo, posted a video on Facebook of himself speaking with Trump. "We are with you a thousand percent. You are safe," Trump told Calvo.
Washington wants to stop Pyongyang from developing nuclear missiles that could hit the United States. North Korea sees its nuclear arsenal as protection against the United States and its partners in Asia.
Trump said he was considering additional sanctions on North Korea, adding these would be "very strong." He gave no details and did not make clear whether he meant unilateral or multilateral sanctions.
U.S. officials have said new U.S. steps targeting Chinese banks and firms doing business with Pyongyang are in the works, but these have appeared to be put on hold to give Beijing time to show it is serious about enforcing new U.N. sanctions.
Trump said he did not want to talk about diplomatic "back channels" with North Korea after U.S. media reports that Joseph Yun, the U.S. envoy for North Korea policy, had engaged in diplomacy for several months with Pak Song Il, a senior diplomat at Pyongyang's U.N. mission, on the deteriorating ties and the issue of Americans imprisoned in North Korea.
But Daniel Russel, until April the top U.S. diplomat for East Asia, said this so-called New York channel had been a relatively commonplace means of communication with North Korea over the years, and was not a forum for negotiation.
"It's never been a vehicle for negotiations and this doesn’t constitute substantive U.S.-DPRK dialogue," he said, using the acronym for North Korea's formal name, Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Both Moscow and Berlin expressed alarm over the rise in rhetoric over North Korea, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov urged Pyongyang and Washington to sign up to a joint Russian-Chinese plan by which North Korea would freeze missile tests and the United States and South Korea would impose a moratorium on large-scale military exercises. Neither the United States nor North Korea has embraced the plan.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said there is no military solution, adding that "an escalation of the rhetoric is the wrong answer."
The French presidency said North Korea was engaged in a "dangerous escalation" of tensions.
President Emmanuel Macron "calls for all parties to act responsibly and prevent any further escalation in tensions," the Elysee palace said in a statement.
Trump and Macron spoke on Saturday. The White House said Trump reiterated the U.S. commitment to stop the "North Korean nuclear menace" and said Washington was ready with diplomatic, economic and military measures.
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said blame for problems lay with North Korea, and that the international community was "shoulder to shoulder" in efforts to stop North Korean aggression.
"We are working with the US and our partners in the region to bring this crisis to a diplomatic end," he tweeted.
As the rhetoric has ratcheted up, South Koreans are buying more ready-to-eat meals for emergency use, and the government aims to expand nationwide civil defence drills planned for Aug. 23. Hundreds of thousands of troops and huge arsenals are arrayed on both sides of the tense demilitarized zone between the two Koreas.
For an interactive graphic on North Korea's missile capabilities, click here
For a graphic on Guam, click here
VIENNA (Reuters) - The U.N. Commission of Inquiry on Syria has gathered enough evidence for President Bashar al-Assad to be convicted of war crimes, a prominent member of the commission, Carla del Ponte, said in remarks published on Sunday.
Del Ponte, 70, who prosecuted war crimes in Rwanda and former Yugoslavia, announced last week that she was stepping down from her role in frustration at the U.N. Security Council's failure to continue the commission's work by setting up a special tribunal for Syria that could try alleged war criminals.
She has not said when she will leave her post.
Asked in an interview with Swiss newspaper SonntagsZeitung whether there was enough evidence for Assad to be convicted of war crimes, she said: "Yes, I am convinced that is the case. That is why the situation is so frustrating. The preparatory work has been done. Despite that, there is no prosecutor and no court."
The Syrian government led by Assad denies reports by the commission documenting widespread war crimes committed by government-backed forces and Syria's security services.
Del Ponte, a former Swiss attorney general, joined the three-member Syria inquiry in September 2012, chronicling incidents such as chemical weapons attacks, a genocide against Iraq's Yazidi population, siege tactics, and the bombing of aid convoys.
The commission was set up in August 2011 and has regularly reported on human rights violations, but its pleas to observe international law have largely fallen on deaf ears.
Although the United Nations is setting up a new body to prepare prosecutions, there is no sign of any court being established to try war crimes committed in the six-and-a-half year-old war. Nor is there any intention by the U.N. Security Council to refer the situation to the International Criminal Court in the Hague.
"For six years, the commission has investigated. Now a prosecutor should continue our work and bring the war criminals before a special court. But that is exactly what Russia is blocking with its veto in the U.N. Security Council," del Ponte was quoted as saying.
Russia, a close ally of Assad's government, has a veto on the Security Council as one of its five permanent members.
Asked which of the parties to the conflict the commission had primarily investigated, she said: "They all committed war crimes. Therefore we investigated all of them."
SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Two Indian soldiers and three militants were killed in a 12-hour gunfight in South Kashmir's Shopian district, a top police official said on Sunday.
The gunfight began on Saturday night when militants hiding inside a village opened fire on security forces, who were conducting a search in the area following a tip-off about the presence of three members of Hizbul Mujahideen - the largest of the anti-Indian Kashmiri militant groups.
The gun battle went on until Sunday morning.
"Three terrorists were killed in the encounter," S.P. Vaid, director general of the state police, told reporters. "We lost two officers and three army personnel were injured."
Indian security forces have launched a massive offensive against militants, killing 135 of them this year. Nearly 150 militants were killed last year.
Jim Finkle
3 Min Read
TORONTO (Reuters) - A Canadian pastor who was imprisoned in North Korea for more than two years quietly returned to his home in a Toronto suburb on Saturday following a long journey on a private government jet via Japan.
Hyeon Soo Lim, formerly the senior pastor at one of Canada's largest churches, had disappeared on a mission to North Korea in early 2015. He was sentenced to hard labour for life in December 2015 on charges of attempting to overthrow the Pyongyang regime.
News of his release surfaced on Wednesday, when North Korea's KCNA news agency said Lim was being let go on humanitarian grounds, suggesting his health was poor.
The announcement came amid heightened tensions between Washington and Pyongyang, though authorities have not said there is any connection between his release and efforts to defuse the standoff over North Korea's nuclear programme.
The pastor's son James Lim said his dad was happy to be back home in Canada, stopping for coffee and a donut at Canada's popular Tim Horton's coffee chain on his way home from the airport.
The family asked the public to respect their privacy, allowing him to rest for a day and catch up with family before appearing in public on Sunday to attend services at his church.
James Lim said his dad was in "good health," but noted that the family planned to arrange for extended medical attention, including checkups.
"He is doing very well, considering everything he has gone through," he said.
The family thanked the Canadian government for helping secure his Lim's release. They declined to provide details on negotiations with the North Koreans.
"It's a delicate dance. There's a lot of complexity to it," James Lim said.
He added that getting the pastor home took on increased urgency in June, following the death of Otto Warmbier, an American student who died days after being released from a North Korean prison in a coma.
The Canadian government issued a statement saying it joined Lim’s family and congregation in celebrating his homecoming.
“Canada has been actively engaged on Mr. Lim’s case at all levels, and we will continue to support him and his family now that he has returned," the statement said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump on Monday will order his top trade adviser to determine whether to investigate Chinese trade practices that force U.S. firms operating in China to turn over intellectual property, senior administration officials said on Saturday.
The move, which could eventually lead to steep tariffs on Chinese goods, comes at a time when Trump has asked China to do more to crack down on North Korea's nuclear missile program as he threatens possible military action against Pyongyang.
Trump has said he would be more amenable to going easy on Beijing if it were more aggressive in reining in North Korea.
An administration official, however, insisted diplomacy over North Korea and the potential trade probe were "totally unrelated," saying the trade action was not a pressure tactic.
"These are two different things," the official said, speaking to reporters on a conference call.
Trump will direct U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to determine if an investigation is warranted of "any of China's laws, policies, practices or actions that may be unreasonable or discriminatory, and that may be harming American intellectual property, innovation and technology," the official said.
"China's unfair trade practices and industrial policies, including forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft, harm the U.S. economy and workers," a second official said. "The action being taken on Monday is a reflection of the president's firm commitment to addressing this problem in a firm way."
Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer took issue with that assessment.
"President Trump's pattern continues: Tough talk on China, but weaker action than anyone could ever imagine," he said in a statement. "To make an announcement that they're going to decide whether to have an investigation on China's well-documented theft of our intellectual property is another signal to China that it is O.K. to keep stealing."
Any investigation that may be launched could take as long as a year to conclude, a third official said. He said it would be premature to speculate on actions that could eventually be taken against China, and added that the issue could be resolved through "negotiated agreement."
Trump, who will interrupt a 17-day working vacation to make a day trip to Washington for the trade announcement, had been expected to seek a so-called Section 301 investigation earlier this month, but an announcement was postponed as the White House pressed for China's cooperation on North Korea.
While China joined in a unanimous U.N. Security Council decision to tighten economic sanctions on Pyongyang, Trump has kept up pressure on Beijing to do more.
"We lose hundreds of billions of dollars a year on trade with China. They know how I feel," he told reporters on Thursday. "If China helps us, I feel a lot different toward trade."
Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping spoke by telephone on Friday and reiterated their mutual commitment to denuclearize the Korean peninsula, the White House said in a statement. It was unclear whether the issue of trade came up.
Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, a popular trade tool in the 1980s that has been rarely used in the past decade, allows the president to unilaterally impose tariffs or other trade restrictions to protect U.S. industries from "unfair trade practices" of foreign countries.
The process can bypass World Trade Organization procedures for adjudicating grievances. Though widely used worldwide, the WTO process is viewed unfavorably by the Trump administration.
"We're at the beginning of this process and no firm decisions have been made as to how that is going to work in terms of whether we would pursue WTO action or action outside the WTO," the first administration official said.
In addition to the United States, the European Union, Japan, Germany and Canada have all expressed concern about Chinese theft of intellectual property. The technology sector has been especially hard-hit in intellectual property disputes.
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The special counsel investigating whether Russia interfered in the U.S. presidential election and possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign wants to speak with current and former senior White House officials, the New York Times reported on Saturday.
Robert Mueller, the special counsel leading the investigation, is in talks with the White House about potential interviews, including with former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, the newspaper said, citing three unnamed sources briefed on the discussions.
Spokespeople for Mueller and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
"Mr. Mueller has asked the White House about specific meetings, who attended them and whether there are any notes, transcripts or documents about them," the newspaper reported, citing two of the people.
Mueller, a former head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, wants to learn more about why Trump decided to fire James Comey, the FBI chief who was dismissed in May, according to the paper.
No interviews have yet been set, the paper said.
Trump has called Mueller's investigation a "witch hunt." Allegations of collusion between Trump associates and Moscow have hounded the Republican president since he took office in January, presenting a major distraction from his policy agenda.
Russia has repeatedly denied meddling in the U.S. election, and Trump has said there was no collusion.
Last month, the FBI raided the home of Paul Manafort, Trump's former campaign manager, and collected evidence, the Washington Post reported earlier in the week.
NAIROBI/KISUMU, Kenya (Reuters) - Kenyan police have killed at least 11 people in a crackdown on protests as anger at the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta erupted in the western city of Kisumu and slums surrounding the capital, officials and witnesses said on Saturday.
However, the NASA opposition coalition, led by four-time presidential hopeful Raila Odinga, put the death toll at more than 100, including 10 children, but did not provide evidence. Odinga has rejected the poll and its result as "massive" fraud.
The eruption of violence has revived memories of a decade ago, when Odinga, now 72, lost an election in controversial circumstances that sparked a wave of political and ethnic unrest in which 1,200 people were killed and 600,000 displaced.
Kofi Annan, the former U.N. head who mediated during that crisis, on Saturday issued a statement warning Kenya's leaders to "be careful with their rhetoric and actions in this tense atmosphere".
Reuters was able to confirm 11 deaths, including one girl, in the space of 24 hours. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights said 24 people had been shot dead by police since Tuesday, election day.
Top Odinga lieutenant Johnson Muthama said police had been packing corpses into body bags and dumping them, remarks likely to exacerbate the tensions that followed Friday night's official announcement that Kenyatta had won, with 54.3 percent of votes.
Mwenda Njeka, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, said the opposition claims were "hogwash".
Acting Interior Minister Fred Matiang'i had earlier said trouble was localised and blamed it on "criminal elements" rather than legitimate political protest. He also denied accusations of police brutality.
"Let us be honest - there are no demonstrations happening," he told reporters.
"Individuals or gangs that are looting shops, that want to endanger lives, that are breaking into people's businesses – those are not demonstrators. They are criminals and we expect police to deal with criminals how criminals should be dealt with."
However, James Orengo, another top NASA official, said the killings were part of a carefully laid plan by 55-year-old Kenyatta's Jubilee party and the security forces to rig the poll, crush dissent and then hide the evidence.
"This violence, this state terror is being executed following very meticulous preparation," he said.
He and Muthama urged Odinga supporters to stay calm and out of harm's way but, ominously, said there would be no backing down. "We will not be cowed. We will not relent," Muthama said.
As with previous votes in 2007 and 2013, this year's elections have exposed the underlying ethnic tensions in the nation of 45 million people, the economic engine of East Africa and the region's main trading hub.
In particular, Odinga's Luo tribe, who hail from the west, hoped an Odinga presidency would break the Kikuyu and Kalenjin dominance of central government since independence in 1963. Kenyatta, the son of Kenya's first president, is a Kikuyu.
Most of the trouble has been in the western city of Kisumu, an Odinga stronghold, and the large, ethnically mixed slums on the outskirts of Nairobi.
The bodies of nine young men shot dead in the capital's run-down Mathare neighbourhood were brought to the city morgue, a security official said. A young girl was also killed by a stray bullet in Mathare, according to a witness.
A government official said one man had been killed in Kisumu county. A Reuters reporter in the city heard tear gas grenades and gunshots overnight and on Saturday morning.
In addition to the deaths, officials at Kisumu's main hospital said they had treated 26 people since Friday night, including four with gunshot wounds and others who had been beaten by police.
Medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres said it had treated 54 patients, including seven for gunshot wounds.
One man, 28-year-old Moses Oduor, was inside his home in Kisumu's impoverished district of Obunga when police conducting house-to-house raids dragged him out of his bedroom and set about him with clubs.
"He was not out fighting them. He was rescued by my sister who lives next to him," said his brother, Charles Ochieng. "She came outside screaming at the police, asking why they are beating people."
In Nairobi, armed police and water cannons moved through the rubble-strewn streets of Kibera, another pro-Odinga slum.
At one point they fired volleys of tear gas and live rounds to force a convoy of pick-up trucks containing senior NASA officials to retreat, a Reuters witness said.
Fleeing Odinga loyalists vowed to vent their rage at the seat of Kenyatta's administration in central Nairobi.
"This is just a warm-up. Tomorrow we will go to State House and they can kill us there," shouted Felix Oduor, 18, as he ran from clouds of tear gas along Kibera's railway line. "They can't kill us all," those around him shouted in response.
Annan reiterated calls for Odinga to lodge any complaint in court but the opposition has said it does not trust the system.
Even before the official result was declared, NASA had rejected the poll's outcome, saying the election commission's systems had been hacked, the count was irregular, and foreign observers who endorsed the poll and the count were biased.
NASA provided no evidence but singled out former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and former South African president Thabo Mbeki - who both led teams of observers - for criticism.
Kenya's ELOG domestic observation group, which had 8,300 agents on the ground, published a parallel vote tally on Saturday that conformed with the official results.
Reuters Staff
3 Min Read
ABUJA (Reuters) - Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari has said he feels ready to return home from medical leave in Britain, and is awaiting his doctor's permission, a presidency statement said on Saturday.
Buhari's extended absence for an undisclosed ailment, his second this year, left many in Nigeria questioning whether he was well enough to run the country. The president has spent more time since the beginning of 2017 in Britain than in Nigeria.
That has sparked numerous protests, including demands that Buhari should resign, as well as calls for more transparency about the president's condition.
"I feel I could go home, but the doctors are in charge," Buhari said, according to Saturday's statement, adding that there has been a "tremendous improvement" in his health.
Photos released by the presidency show Buhari standing outdoors, grinning and wearing sunglasses while holding a large "Get well soon" card, with a handful of officials around him in a leafy, residential area.
The 74-year-old president had already been in London from January to March for sick leave before returning to Britain in May for further treatment.
Both times, the president appointed his deputy, Yemi Osinbajo, to act in his stead.
Buhari's lengthy illness has sparked speculation about his ability to seek a second term in 2019. Politicians and diplomats have started privately discussing potential candidates should the current president not run.
If Buhari does not stand, it could also lead to greater ethnic and religious tensions in Nigeria, long riven by divisions between the largely Muslim north and the mostly Christian south.
Members of both the Muslim north and Christian south feel that a representative from either side should hold the presidency for the maximum two terms, eight years, before the opposite faction's candidate can then lead the nation.
Yet Buhari's appointment of Osinbajo, a southern Christian, as acting president did help allay fears of the intense political infighting of 2010 after then-president Umaru Yar'Adua fell ill and failed to nominate someone to run the country.
It was only when Yar'Adua, a northern Muslim, died in May that year that his vice president Goodluck Jonathan became Nigeria's leader, resolving the constitutional crisis.
When Jonathan successfully won the presidential election in 2011, one that many viewed as a vote that should have given the Muslim north its second term in the presidency, hundreds died in riots protesting against that victory.
CHARLOTTESVILLE, vA. (Reuters) - At least one vehicle hit a crowd of people gathered in a Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, hours after police broke up a clash between white nationalists and counter-protesters, according to witnesses, but it was not clear whether the incident was connected to the earlier melee.
The accident involved three vehicles, and there were multiple injuries, Charlottesville city spokeswoman Miriam Dickler said in a text message.
At least four injured people were spotted at the location where the vehicle struck demonstrators, including one person who was taken away on a stretcher by paramedics. Multiple ambulances were on the scene soon after the early-afternoon incident.
Charlottesville police said in a statement on Facebook that they and Virginia State Police were at the scene of the incident in the city's downtown.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump on Saturday condemned violence that erupted between white nationalists and counter-demonstrators on Saturday in Charlottesville, Virginia.
"We must ALL be united & condemn all that hate stands for," Trump wrote in a Twitter message. "There is no place for this kind of violence in America."
Officials had approved the protest march in downtown Charlottesville but cancelled the event and declared a state of emergency after outbreaks of violence.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron spoke by phone on Saturday and agreed to work together on a crisis on the Korean Peninsula, the White House said in a statement.
"They discussed the need to confront the increasingly dangerous situation associated with North Korea's destabilising and escalatory behaviour," the White House said in a statement.
In recent days, Trump and the North Korean regime have engaged in heated rhetoric about the Asian nation's nuclear weapons program.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Former U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan told political leaders in Kenya on Saturday to be "careful with their rhetoric and actions" and urged opposition leader Raila Odinga to pursue any complaints over the vote in court.
The warning from Annan, who mediated during a post-election crisis a decade ago, came as the death toll from violence since Tuesday's vote rose to at least 24.
Odinga's coalition has rejected the results, claiming massive fraud, and said it will not go to court to challenge them.
ROME (Reuters) - Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said on Saturday it was suspending its migrant rescues in the Mediterranean because it felt threatened by the Libyan coastguard and the Italian government's policies have made its job harder.
The aid group's decision is the latest development in mounting tensions between Rome and NGOs as migration dominates Italy's political agenda ahead of elections early next year.
"We are suspending our activities because now we feel that the threatening behaviour by the Libyan coastguard is very serious ... we cannot put our colleagues in danger," the president of MSF's Italian arm Loris De Filippi told Reuters.
Almost 600,000 migrants have arrived in Italy over the past four years, the vast majority setting sail from lawless Libya in flimsy vessels operated by people smugglers. More than 13,000 migrants have died trying to make the crossing.
Charity boats have played a growing role in rescues, picking up more than a third of all migrants brought ashore so far this year against less than one percent in 2014.
However, Italy fears the groups are facilitating people smuggling and encouraging migrants to make the passage, and it has proposed a Code of Conduct governing how they operate.
Some groups, including MSF, have refused to sign the code.
They object to a requirement that Italian police officers be on their boats and that the boats must take migrants to a safe port themselves, rather than transferring them to other vessels to allow smaller boats to stay in the area for further rescues.
MSF operates one rescue ship in the Mediterranean, the Prudence, currently docked in the Sicilian port of Catania.
In the last six weeks the number of migrant arrivals in Italy has slowed sharply and Rome has begun collaborating more closely with the Libyan coastguard, which De Filippi said was threatening the NGOs and preventing them from working.
He said the Libyan coastguard had demanded the NGOs should leave an area of up to hundreds of kilometres around its coast, whereas previously they had been allowed to conduct search and rescue operations as close as 11 nautical miles to the mainland.
"Last year the coastguard fired 13 shots on our boat and that was in a situation that was much calmer than the present one," said De Filippi.
He said MSF would continue its collaboration with another aid group, SOS Mediterranee, which operates a rescue ship in the Mediterranean with MSF doctors on board.
De Filippi said the Rome government's Code of Conduct for NGOs and its support for the Libyan coastguard showed it was now mixing the humanitarian goal of saving lives with "a political and military intention" of reducing arrivals.
"We refuse to be co-opted into a system that blocks people from seeking safety and protection," MSF tweeted, adding that the European Union's immigration policies showed it was "determined to trap people in Libya."
Oscar Camps, the founder of Proactiva Open Arms, another aid group active in the Mediterranean, also took aim at the EU, tweeting: "the first NGO out, this is just what the EU wants."
An Italian government spokesman was not immediately available to comment, while Matteo Salvini, leader of the anti-immigrant Northern League, said MSF's move meant there would be "thousands fewer illegal immigrants for Italians to maintain."
Last week Italy began a naval mission in Libyan waters to train and support its coastguard, despite opposition from factions in eastern Libya that oppose the U.N.-backed government based in Tripoli.
General Khalifa Haftar, a commander aligned with an Eastern-based parliament, told Italian daily Corriere della Sera on Saturday the presence of Italian military vessels in Libyan waters was unacceptable but he would not attack them.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Saturday that tension with Europe was due to European domestic politics and relations with Berlin would improve after Germany's parliamentary election in September.
Relations between Europe and Turkey, a NATO member and a candidate for European Union membership, have been strained by the crackdown that followed last year's failed coup, with some European countries voicing alarm at the scale of the purges.
"Criticism from Europe is about their internal politics," Erdogan said in a speech in the western city of Isparta that was broadcast live on television.
"France and Austria did this before, we see that Germany follows the same strategy. I believe that this situation will improve after elections," he said, referring to the Sept. 24 polls where Chancellor Angela Merkel is running for a fourth term.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German trade fair operator Messe Muenchen said it was committed to its operations in Turkey despite having been on a Turkish blacklist of German companies suspected of backing terrorism.
"We do not question our engagement there," Klaus Dittrich, chairman and chief executive of Messe Muenchen, told German newspaper Welt am Sonntag. "We are not expanding there for the time being but we are not pulling out."
Turkey was reported last month to have given Berlin a list of almost 700 German firms it was targeting for suspected links to last year's coup attempt. Turkey denied it had given Germany such a list.
Three weeks ago, Germany said Turkey had formally withdrawn the blacklist, blaming it on a "communications problem".
Dittrich said Messe Muenchen had "evidently" been on this list.
Messe Muenchen currently holds two events in Istanbul: transportation and logistics fair Logitrans and environmental technology fair IFAT Eurasia.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Thieves have broken into the offices of South Africa's Competition Commission, making off with laptop computers, the watchdog said on Saturday. It is the latest in a series of high-profile burglaries targeting law enforcement bodies.
"There has been a security breach at the offices of the Competition Commission. Two laptops were stolen on Tuesday from the division responsible for investigations into cartel conduct," head of communications Sipho Ngwema said in a statement.
The break-in came a few weeks after thieves stole two laptops from the state prosecutors' offices.
The Competition Commission is responsible for investigating issues including cartel conduct and mergers and acquisitions, before bringing them to the Competition Tribunal for adjudication.
The case has been transferred to South Africa's elite Hawks police unit for further investigation, Ngwema said.
"The Commission has taken the necessary measures and safeguards to enhance security," he added.
Reuters could not immediately contact the Hawks for comment.
In July, burglars stole hard drives and other computer equipment from the Hawks. In March, 15 computers containing information on South Africa's judges and court officials were stolen from the administrative offices of the Chief Justice.
Hugh Bronstein and Deisy Buitrago
3 Min Read
CARACAS (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump's threat of military intervention in Venezuela was "an act of craziness," the South American country's Defense Minister Vladimir Padrino said on Friday.
Venezuela's foreign ministry was expected to issue a statement on Saturday responding to Trump's comment that "a possible military option" was under consideration for the crisis-racked nation.
The country is deep in a recession compounded by shortages of food and medicine, while anti-government protests have killed more than 120 people since April.
Responding to Trump, Padrino told state television, "It is an act of craziness. It is an act of supreme extremism. There is an extremist elite that rules the United States."
"As a soldier, I stand with the Venezuelan armed forces, and with the people. I am sure that we will all be on the front lines of defending the interests and sovereignty of this beloved Venezuela," he added.
Communications Minister Ernesto Villegas called Trump's remark "an unprecedented threat to national sovereignty."
In a Friday night message on social network Twitter, he said, "The diplomatic corps is summoned to the foreign ministry for tomorrow, when it will release a communiqué addressing the  imperial threat to Venezuela."
Last month's election of a legislative superbody packed with allies of unpopular socialist President Nicolas Maduro drew international condemnation for usurping the authority of Venezuela's opposition-controlled congress.
Maduro says the assembly, which has the power to re-write Venezuela's constitution, is needed to bring peace and prosperity to the oil-rich but economically ailing country. Critics say the assembly casts aside any remaining checks on Maduro's power.
The opposition boycotted the vote for the assembly, which assured that it would be stacked with Maduro allies.
The White House said Maduro requested a phone call with Trump on Friday, which the administration appeared to spurn, saying in a statement that Trump would gladly speak with the leader of Venezuela once democracy was restored.
(Reuters) - A magnitude 5.9 quake struck off the coast of Chile, 102 km west-southwest of Coquimbo, at depth of 10 km (6 miles), on Saturday, the U.S. Geological Survey said.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia's anti-corruption commission said on Saturday the death of a witness in a graft investigation implicating dozens of politicians will not derail its probe.
The Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) has already named the parliamentary Speaker, Setya Novanto, as a suspect in the investigation that targets at least 37 people.
Novanto has denied any wrongdoing in the case which  dates back to 2009, and centres on allegations that sums ranging from $5,000 to $5.5 million - money generated by marking up the costs of a national electronic ID card program - were divided up in a room in parliament.
The witness, Yohanes Marliem, was reported by U.S. media to have died in West Hollywood on Thursday after a standoff with police involving several hostages.
Indonesia's National Police international relations chief Saiful Maltha told Reuters on Saturday that the U.S. authorities had confirmed Marliem's death.
"We do not know the cause of the death yet," Maltha said, adding that his team was working with the FBI.
Despite the death of the witness, KPK spokesman Febry Diansyah said the investigation would go on.
"We are confident with the evidence we have," Diansyah told Reuters on Saturday.
Indonesian domestic newspaper Kontan on Saturday published recent quotes from Marliam saying he had feared for his safety.
Novanto, the Speaker of the House of Representatives (DPR) and chairman of Indonesia's second-biggest political party, Golkar, was named as a suspect in the case last month.
Tensions between the KPK and parliament have festered for years and some members have suggested political motives are behind the probe.
GABORONE (Reuters) - Exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has cancelled a planned visit to Botswana because of exhaustion, his office said, a move that is likely to be welcomed by China, a major investor in the African country.
The Dalai Lama had been expected to address a human rights conference in the capital Gaborone on Aug. 17-19 and meet Botswana's president during the trip.
Visits by the Dalai Lama to foreign countries infuriate China, and it stepped up warnings to Botswana last month, with its Foreign Ministry spokesman demanding "the relevant country earnestly respect China's core interests and make the correct political decision on this matter".
Botswana reacted by saying that as a sovereign state, it retained the right to permit anyone to enter the country.
The Dalai Lama, who lives in exile in India, has long been at loggerheads over Tibet with China, which brands him a reactionary and separatist. The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989, says he seeks greater rights, including religious freedom, and true autonomy for Tibetans.
In a statement late on Friday the Dalai Lama's office said his doctors had advised him to avoid undertaking long journeys for the next few weeks.
"During the past few weeks, His Holiness has found that carrying out his activities has left him unusually tired," it said.
"Although he had been eagerly looking forward to visiting Gaborone ... His Holiness has reluctantly had to concede that his 82-year old body was telling him to rest."
China's fast-growing demand for raw materials has made it one of the biggest investors in Africa and its largest trade partner. Chinese state-owned companies have been awarded contracts to build roads, dams, power stations and airports in Botswana.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Nine young men were shot dead overnight in post election violence in Nairobi's Mathare slum and have been brought to the city morgue, a security official told Reuters on Saturday.
The official, who did not want to be named, said he understood the men had been shot by police in anti-looting operations.
MUMBAI/NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Sixty children have died at a hospital in India's northern state of Uttar Pradesh this week, prompting local media to blame the fatalities on a lack of oxygen supplies.
The BRD Medical College specified that 34 were babies who died at the neo-natal intensive care unit, while 12 died because of encephalitis. The rest died of other unspecified causes.
Local media reports have said some of the deaths were caused due to an oxygen shortage after a private supplier withdrew its equipment over unpaid hospital dues.
BRD Medical Chief Medical Superintendent Dr R.S. Shukla denied the deaths had been caused by a lack of oxygen supplies when asked by Reuters.
The hospital, in a statement, said there had been a "drop in pressure in the supply of liquid oxygen" on Thursday, but added cylinders were procured from various other suppliers. It did not specify whether that had resulted in any deaths.
The breakdown of the death toll provided by the hospital showed a spike on Thursday, with 23 fatalities, including 14 babies at its neo-natal unit.
The Uttar Pradesh and federal governments are investigating the matter, officials said. A tweet from the Prime Minister's office said Narendra Modi was constantly monitoring the situation.
The deaths have sparked a political firestorm as opposition politicians sought to pin the blame on Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, which rules the state.
The hospital is located in Gorakhpur district, which is represented by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was appointed to head the state this year.
"The current government is responsible for the deaths of children in Gorakhpur due to the lack of oxygen. Strict action should be taken," tweeted former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.
State government officials in TV appearances chastised opposition leaders for seeking to politicize the issue.
Outbreaks of encephalitis are common every year in India, claiming hundreds of lives, especially during the monsoon season. The disease is most often caused by contaminated food or water, mosquito bites, or through breathing in respiratory droplets from an infected person.
India spends about one percent of its GDP on public health, among the lowest in the world. Successive governments have faced criticism for not reforming the overburdened public health system which is still plagued with shortage of doctors and dilapidated infrastructure.
Modi's government has in recent years increased health spending and vowed to make healthcare more affordable.
ERBIL, Iraq (Reuters) - Iraq's Kurds are sticking to a plan to hold an independence referendum on Sept. 25, despite a U.S. request to postpone it, a high-ranking Kurdish official told Reuters on Saturday.
The United States and other Western nations are worried that the vote could ignite a fresh conflict with Baghdad and turn into another regional flashpoint. Turkey, Iran and Syria, which together with Iraq have sizeable Kurdish populations, all oppose an independent Kurdistan.
"The date is standing, Sept. 25, no change," said Hoshyar Zebari, a close adviser to Kurdistan Regional Government President Massoud Barzani, after U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson asked Barzani to postpone the referendum.
Tillerson made the request in a phone call with Barzani on Thursday, Zebari said.
"On the issue of the postponement of the referendum, the President (Barzani) stated that the people of the Kurdistan Region would expect guarantees and alternatives for their future," said a statement issued on Friday by the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) presidency, after Tillerson's call.
The U.S. State Department said in June it was concerned that the referendum will distract from "more urgent priorities" such as the defeat of Islamic State militants.
Islamic State's self-proclaimed "caliphate" effectively collapsed last month, when U.S.-backed Iraqi forces completed the takeover of the militants' capital in Iraq, Mosul, after a nine-month campaign in which Kurdish Peshmerga fighters took part.
The hardline Sunni militants remain however in control of territory in western Iraq and eastern Syria. The United States has pledged to maintain its backing to allied forces in both countries until the militants' total defeat.
The Kurds have been seeking an independent state since at least the end of World War One, when colonial powers divided up the Middle East, but their territory ended up split between modern-day Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria.
Barzani, whose father led struggles against Baghdad in the 1960s and 1970s, told Reuters in July the Kurds would take responsibility for the expected 'yes' outcome of the referendum, and pursue its implementation through dialogue with Baghdad and regional powers to avoid conflict."We have to rectify the history of mistreatment of our people and those who are saying that independence is not good, our question to them is, 'if it's not good for us, why is it good for you?'," he said in an interview in the KRG capital, Erbil.
Iraq has been led by Shi'ites since the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, a Sunni, by the U.S.-led invasion of 2003.
The country's majority Shi'ite community mainly lives in the south while the Kurds and Sunni Arabs inhabit two corners of the north. The centre around Baghdad is mixed.
Kurdish officials have said disputed areas, including the oil-rich Kirkuk region, will be covered by the referendum, to determine whether they would want to remain or not in Kurdistan.
The Kurdish Peshmerga in 2014 prevented Islamic State from capturing Kirkuk, in northern Iraq, after the Iraqi army fled in the face of the militants. They are effectively running the region, also claimed by Turkmen and Arabs.
Hardline Iran-backed Iraqi Shi'ite militias have threatened to expel the Kurds by force from this region and three other disputed areas - Sinjar, Makhmour and Khanaqin.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenya's main domestic poll monitoring organisation, ELOG, said on Saturday it had found no evidence to suggest this week's election was manipulated or inaccurate, as the opposition have attested.
ELOG's parallel vote tally projected a victory for President Uhuru Kenyatta with 54 percent of ballots cast, compared to an official count of 54.3 percent. This was well within ELOG's 1.9 percent margin of error, the group said.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - A young Kenyan girl was shot dead by police during operations to quell protests against the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, a witness said on Saturday.
"The girl was hit by a stray bullet while she was on a balcony as police were firing sporadic shots," the witness, who only gave his first name, Eric, told Reuters.
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea said on Saturday that nearly 3.5 million workers, party members and soldiers volunteered to join or rejoin its army to resist new U.N. sanctions and to fight against the United States in the current geopolitical tension between Pyongyang and Washington.
Rodong Sinmun, North Korea's official newspaper, said the volunteers had offered to join or rejoin the People's Army after the Korea Central News Agency (KCNA) issued a statement on Monday condemning new sanctions imposed by the United Nations  in retaliation for North Korean missile tests.
Earlier this week, nuclear-armed North Korea threatened to strike the United States and its Pacific territory of Guam.
KCNA said on Wednesday a mass rally was held in Pyongyang to support the government. North Korea has previously mobilised large crowds to show its resolve when tensions escalate.
In August 2015, 1 million North Koreans offered to enlist or re-enlist in the army when a mine exploded in the demilitarised zone between the two Koreas, raising additional tensions.
North Korea warned foreign diplomats to leave Pyongyang in 2013 when it suspended work at a joint inter-Korean industrial park and threatened missile strikes on U.S. Pacific bases, notably in Guam and Hawaii.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Kuwaiti authorities have arrested 12 people convicted in absentia of spying for Iran and Lebanese Shi'ite Muslim group Hezbollah, the Interior Ministry said on Saturday.
Kuwait had charged 25 of its nationals – all of them Shi'ites – and an Iranian citizen after the discovery of guns and explosives in a raid on the so-called "Abdali cell" in 2015, which escalated sectarian tensions.
Kuwaiti prosecutors alleged that the men intended to carry out "hostile acts" against Kuwait.
One person was sentenced to death, the rest to prison terms. In June, Kuwait's highest court overturned the death sentence and reduced some of the prison terms while increasing others.
At least 14 were sentenced in absentia, including the Iranian national.
Iran has denied any involvement in the case.
"The interior ministry announces that security services have arrested in different regions 12 people sentenced in the so-called Abdali cell," a statement from the ministry and carried by the state news agency KUNA said.
Authorities are still searching for two others convicted in the same case and still on the run, the statement added.
Kuwait, which has a large Shi'ite Muslim minority, sits in a difficult geographical position, close to two major regional powers and arch foes - mainly Shi'ite Iran and Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia.
Prak Chan Thul
3 Min Read
PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Cambodia and Laos reached an agreement on Saturday for Lao soldiers to pull back from their shared border after Cambodia accused Laos of sending troops into its territory, the leaders of both countries said.
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen on Friday dispatched forces to the border and issued an ultimatum for Laos to withdraw the soldiers by Thursday.
The Cambodian strongman flew to Vientiane on Saturday to hold urgent talks with Lao Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith.
In a news conference after the meeting, broadcast live on Hun Sen's Facebook page with simultaneous translation into Khmer, the Lao leader said he had ordered the withdrawal.
"I've ordered the authorities involved to withdraw troops from that area by tomorrow morning," Thongloun Sisoulith said.
Thongloun said he was sorry he had not responded to an Aug. 2 letter from Hun Sen seeking withdrawal of the troops.
"Anyway, the discussion today was frank and friendly, so that the area would not lead to forces being confrontational," he said.
Thongloun did not say whether Laos admitted to having sent troops into Cambodia, which says about 30 soldiers from Laos crossed into its province of Stung Treng in April.
Hun Sen said he had also ordered Cambodian forces sent to the border - truck-mounted rocket launchers and ground troops - to pull back in response to Laos's agreement to withdraw.
"Our biggest success is that there is no dispute that can't be solved," Hun Sen said at the news conference.
"Moments ago, I already ordered all troops that were mobilised yesterday to go back to their positions."
Hun Sen said a border commission from both countries would begin working in the area once troops have withdrawn.
An official at the Lao embassy in Phnom Penh told Reuters on Friday the border area was the subject of a territorial and  demarcation dispute.
Laos wants Cambodia to stop clearing land there for road-building and allow checks by inspection panels from both countries, the official said.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated their mutual commitment to denuclearize the Korean peninsula during a phone conversation on Friday, the White House said in a statement.
Trump and Xi also agreed that the recent adoption of a United Nations Security Council resolution on North Korea was an important step towards achieving peace and stability on the  peninsula, it added.
"President Trump and President Xi agreed North Korea must stop its provocative and escalatory behaviour," the statement said.
The White House said the "relationship between the two presidents is an extremely close one, and will hopefully lead to a peaceful resolution of the North Korea problem."
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
BEIJING (Reuters) - The North Korean nuclear issue needs a peaceful resolution, Chinese President Xi Jinping told U.S. President Donald Trump in a telephone call on Saturday, and called on the "relevant side" to exercise restraint, state television said.
Trump issued a new threat to North Korea on Friday, saying the U.S. military was "locked and loaded", as Pyongyang accused him of driving the Korean peninsula to the brink of nuclear war and world powers expressed alarm.
Xi told Trump that it was in the joint interests of both China and the United States to achieve the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula and protect peace and stability there, state television said in a brief report.
"The relevant side must at present exercise restraint, and avoid words and actions that exacerbate tensions on the Korean peninsula," the report paraphrased Xi as saying.
Resolving the nuclear issue ultimately needs to be done politically via talks, and China is willing to maintain communication with the United States on the basis of mutual respect to push for an appropriate resolution, Xi added.
Chinese state television cited Trump as telling Xi that he fully understands the role China has been playing on the North Korean nuclear issue.
Dahee Kim and Haejin Choi
5 Min Read
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Koreans are buying more gold and ready to eat meals, while the government plans to expand nation-wide civil defence drills planned for this month as rhetoric between North Korea and the United States ramps up tension.
Long used to living within the range of North Korea's artillery, people in the South have generally ignored its aggressiveness and series of nuclear and long-range missile tests.
But this week, as Pyongyang exchanged increasingly angry words with the United States, there are worries of a clash erupting along the heavily militarised frontier which divides the two Koreas.
Combat Ration Inc, which makes 2 billion won ($1.75 million)  of annual revenue selling ready to eat meals, said sales had surged as much as 50 percent in the past week compared to the average.
"Since 2006, when North Korea first conducted its nuclear test, there wasn't this much response as people became immune to frequent missile launches and nuclear tests," said Yoon Hee-yeul, the chief executive of Combat Ration, based in the southeastern city of Daegu.
"I feel it's different this time," said Yoon, who's been in the business since 2004.
Ready to eat meals maker Babmart, based in eastern Seoul, and another Seoul-based online seller, jun2food.com, also said sales have increased. Officials at both companies attributed the surge to the heightened tension.
North Korea said on Thursday its army would complete plans in mid-August to fire four intermediate-range missiles over Japan to land near the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
U.S. President Donald Trump said North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was not going to get away with his "horrific" comments and disrespecting America.
"Koreans used to be numb to North Korea’s threats, however, it seems different this time, and people are taking it seriously," said Song Jong-gil, an official of Korea Gold Exchange 3M, where sales of mini gold bars have surged five-fold since Aug. 9.
After Trump's "fire and fury" threat heightened tension, average daily sales volume has been 250 bars, ranging in weight between 10 grams (0.35 oz) and 100 grams (3.5 oz), versus about 50 earlier, Song said, adding the trend would continue through August.
Investors widely consider gold a safe-haven asset at times of growing geopolitical risk or economic uncertainty. South Koreans, who are still technically at war with their combative neighbours, are no exception.
Experts say if North Korea did launch intermediate-range missiles toward Guam, all its other missiles and artillery would be ready for action. Hundreds of thousands of troops and huge arsenals are arrayed on both sides of the tense demilitarized zone between the two Koreas.
At least 1,000 of the North's artillery pieces are capable of reaching densely populated Seoul and its metropolitan area, home to some 25 million people.
Seoul is expanding its participation in a nationwide civil defence drill, set to take place on Aug. 23, Shim Kang-cheon, a local Seoul government official, told Reuters.
The five-minute drill begins with a siren on radio, and cars are stopped at designated spots. Pedestrians are escorted off the streets and taken to safe spots like subway stations.
All of Seoul's 25 districts will participate in the drill this year, Shim said, compared to just five last year.
In a recent message, Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon said, "Since North Korea is very close to crossing the red line, Seoul needs to ramp up all defence measures against North Korea’s potential threat," said another Seoul city official who asked not to be identified by name.
The drill coincides with the four-day "Ulji Freedom Guardian" military manoeuvres on August 21-24, which are held yearly and include joint exercises by the U.S. and South Korean armed forces, as well as drills for emergencies.
But many officials say there is a long way to go to raise public awareness about civil defence. At two subway stations visited by Reuters on Friday, many people didn't know the locations were among Seoul's more than 3,200 designated bomb shelters.
Few bomb shelters have long-term supplies of food, water, medical kits or gas masks, because the mostly private owners of the shelters get no public funding.
"Since the subway stations in South Korea have enough depth and strength, we will be able to survive attacks. It is just a shame that such infrastructure is not advertised well to the public and that we are short of emergency supplies," said Yang Uk, senior fellow at Korea Defense and Security Forum, a research institute in Seoul.
KARACHI/NEW DELHI (Reuters) - As India and Pakistan prepare to celebrate 70 years of independence from Britain next week, thousands of families in the nuclear-armed neighbours remain divided by a border that strained diplomatic ties make harder to cross.
India and Pakistan have fought three wars since 1947, and relations remain tense, particularly when it comes to the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir, which both claim in full.
"The people who have migrated are not able to come to India, nor can we go there freely," said Asif Fehmi, a resident of a New Delhi neighbourhood where thousands of Muslim families divided by Partition have blood ties over the border.
"We can't meet them freely, and there was a time when we couldn't talk to them freely."
Fehmi's family was among the millions of people whose lives were disrupted in 1947, after departing British colonial administrators ordered the creation of two countries - one mostly Muslim and one majority Hindu.
A mass migration followed, marred by violence and bloodshed, as about 15 million Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs, fearing discrimination, swapped countries in a political upheaval that cost more than a million lives.
During the chaotic transition, train cars full of bodies arrived at railway stations in the twin cities of Lahore and Amritsar in the province of Punjab, split roughly down the middle at partition on August 14, 1947.
Many survivors of the bloodshed found themselves separated from family on the other side of a hastily drawn-up border.
"I was unable to understand what Partition was, because I was not old enough," said Rehana Hashmi, 75, whose family migrated from India to Pakistan's southern city of Karachi in 1960. "My brother told me that India and Pakistan had emerged."
The move to Pakistan, when Hashmi's father retired from a career in India's railways, left behind many close relatives, but they kept in touch.
When Hashmi's husband, Khurshid, died in 1990, bringing to a close a 26-year-long marriage, his first cousin, Asif Fehmi, sought a Pakistani visa to attend the funeral.
"I knew some people in the Pakistan embassy," said Fehmi. "I finally got the visa, but when I reached there, it was already over. So, at a time when we should have been there, we weren't."
Both sides of the family long to be closer, with ties unimpeded by travel curbs or poisoned by nationalist bluster.
But the mutual suspicion between the two countries creates unwarranted barriers for families wrenched apart by history, Fehmi added.
Hostilities have intensified since a series of bombings and shootings in India's financial capital of Mumbai in 2008, and an attack on its parliament in 2001, both of which India blamed on militant groups based in Pakistan.
Pakistan has repeatedly accused India of aggressive lobbying in Washington and among the nations of Southeast Asia, aimed at isolating it internationally.
For the Hashmis and the Fehmis, as for thousands of other families, the quarrelling has meant fewer visits across the border.
DUBAI (Reuters) - The United Arab Emirates said on Saturday that four of its soldiers died after their helicopter crashed during a routine mission in Yemen, the official news agency WAM reported.
They were "carrying out their normal mission in the Shabwa governorate in Yemen, where their helicopter had technical failure, which led to an emergency landing and hitting the ground," the agency said.
The UAE is part of a Saudi-led coalition formed in 2015 to fight the Iran-aligned Houthi group, which controls most of northern Yemen and the capital Sanaa, in a war that has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced more than 3 million.
Reuters Staff
2 Min Read
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said she spoke briefly with her North Korean counterpart at a meeting in Manila on Sunday, days before Pyongyang released Canadian pastor Hyeon Soo Lim from a prison where he was serving a life sentence.
"We were clear with North Korea that Pastor Lim needed to be released, and we are very, very glad that happened," Freeland told reporters at a press conference on Friday, a day after Lim arrived in Japan en route to his home in a Toronto suburb.
Freeland said the conversation with North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong-ho occurred Sunday on the sidelines of an Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) meeting of foreign ministers.
Lim, who served as pastor of one of Canada's largest churches, had been sentenced to hard labour for life in December 2015 after North Korea accused him of attempting to overthrow the regime.
Lim's family said on Thursday he is healthy and not in critical condition.
Freeland also said Canada is united with its allies in calling for North Korea to stop its nuclear programme.
"We've also been very clear with North Korea, both in direct conversations and publicly, that their nuclear programme is a grave threat to the world, that it is something that must be stopped."
Tensions on the Korean Peninsula escalated further this week as the United States and North Korea exchanged a series of threats, with U.S. President Donald Trump tweeting on Friday that the U.S. military was "locked and loaded".
Asked about Trump's language on North Korea, Freeland said Canada stands by all of its allies, including the United States.
"We need to seek ways to de-escalate the situation," she said.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - An explosion hit a rebel gathering near the Syria-Jordan border on Friday, killing at least 23 fighters and wounding dozens more, a war monitor and an activist said.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said a violent explosion hit an army camp of the Syrian rebel group Jaish al-Islam near the border crossing town of Nassib.
The Britain-based war monitor said the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber and the death toll was expected to rise.
A video passed to Reuters by an activist in the area claimed to show at least a dozen seriously injured people lying on a carpeted floor. Reuters could not independently verify the content of the video.
The Nassib crossing used to be a major transit point into Syria for people and goods coming to and from the Gulf countries through Saudi Arabia and Jordan, until it was seized by rebels during Syria's civil war.
The town of Nassib is southeast of the southern Syrian city of Deraa in an area covered by a U.S.-Russian brokered ceasefire that went into effect in July.
Duncan Miriri and Maggie Fick
5 Min Read
NAIROBI/KISUMU, Kenya (Reuters) - Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta secured a second term in office, results showed on Friday, setting off wild street celebrations by his supporters and protests in opposition strongholds in the capital and the west of the country.
Speaking after the result of Tuesday's election was announced, Kenyatta offered an olive branch to the opposition, urging national unity and peace with rivals who have rejected the result and raised the prospect of street protests.
Many Kenyans fear a repeat of the violence that followed the 2007 disputed election, when about 1,200 people were killed and hundreds of thousands displaced as protests over the result led to ethnic killings.
Kenyatta got 54.3 percent of the vote, ahead of rival Raila Odinga who secured 44.7 percent, according to election commission figures. Nearly 80 percent of the 19 million registered voters cast their ballots.
"To my worthy competitor Raila Odinga, I reach out to you, I reach out to your supporters, let us work together," Kenyatta, 55, said, shortly after being declared winner.
"Let us be peaceful, let us share together," he said. "Reach out to your neighbour, shake their hand. Say this election is over, let us move on."
In Nairobi and other towns in Kenya his supporters took to the streets to celebrate, honking car horns and blowing whistles.
However, there were also protests.
Police fired tear gas and gunshots were heard in the Nairobi slums of Mathare and Kawangware, where young men took to the streets as police helicopters buzzed overhead.
In Kisumu, an Odinga stronghold in the west, youths banged drums and tyres burned in the streets in the Kondele district.
As election officials prepared the final results, the NASA opposition coalition, led by 72-year-old Odinga, who has lost the last two elections amid complaints of fraud, said it rejected the process after its complaints had not been addressed.
"We raised some very serious concerns. They have not responded to them. As NASA we shall not be party to the process they are about to make," senior opposition official Musalia Mudavadi told reporters.
James Orengo, one of Odinga's top lieutenants, said the process had been a "charade".
He stopped short of calling for protests but praised the Kenyan people's history of standing up to stolen elections and said there were "constitutional alternatives" to challenging any result.
"Going to court, for us, is not an alternative. We have been there before," he said.
"The Kenyan people have never disappointed ... every time an election has been stolen, the Kenyan people have stood up to make sure changes are made to make Kenya a better place."
Earlier, Orengo had called for the candidates and observers to be given access to the election commission's computer servers so there could be a transparent audit of data from 41,000 polling stations across the country.
Yakub Guliye, election commissioner in charge of information technology, said the opposition had not made a formal request and it would not act on a verbal request.
Normal procedure calls for the commission to release final results after cross checking electronic tallies with paper forms.
Odinga's camp has said figures released by the commission since Tuesday's vote were "fictitious" and that "confidential sources" within the commission had provided figures showing Odinga had a large lead in the race.
The election commission rejected the claims, pointing out they contained basic mathematical errors.
Police had beefed up security across much of Kenya - particularly in opposition strongholds in the west and parts of Nairobi - in anticipation of the announcement of the result.
Kenya is the leading economy in East Africa and any instability would be likely to ripple through the region.
Odinga is a member of the Luo, an ethnic group from the west of the country that has long said it is excluded from power. Kenyatta is from the Kikuyu group, which has supplied three of four presidents since Kenya gained independence from Britain in 1963.
International observers have given the thumbs-up to the vote and U.S. Ambassador Robert Godec issued a statement on behalf of the diplomatic community calling for any complaints to be channelled through the courts, not street protests.
"If there are disputes or disagreements, the Kenyan constitution is very clear on how they are to be addressed. Violence must never be an option," he said on Friday.
But the opposition criticised foreign observer missions, which included former South African president Thabo Mbeki and former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, saying they should have been "vetted" ahead of the vote.
"The observers largely served the interests of the government," Orengo said.
As well as a new president, Kenyans also elected new lawmakers and local representatives. Some of those races have also been disputed, leading to violence in Garissa and Tana River counties.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump will make a day trip to Washington, D.C., on Monday, briefly interrupting his 17-day August working vacation, a White House official said on Friday.
Trump has been spending time at a golf course he owns in Bedminster, New Jersey, where he has held meetings with his advisers about North Korea's nuclear threat and other issues.
Trump will leave his golf course on Sunday for his Manhattan home, where he said he had scheduled a lot of meetings.
No reason for the Monday trip to Washington from New York City was immediately provided. The trip was first reported by Politico.
Trump's vacation comes as the West Wing of the White House goes through some long-planned renovations to update the air-conditioning system, fix leaks in the roof and make other repairs.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Two trains collided in Egypt's coastal city of Alexandria on Friday killing 42 people and injuring 133 others, the health ministry said.
A witness said the trains rose into the air "forming a pyramid" as they slammed into each other just outside a suburban station in the Mediterranean port city.
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ordered an inquiry into the crash, which left bodies strewn on the ground as rescue teams worked to pull the dead and injured from the wrecked carriages.
The collision at 2:15 p.m. (1215 GMT), near Khorshid station at the edge of Alexandria, derailed the engine of one train and two cars of the other, the Egyptian Railway Authority said.
A railroad switching error was the most likely cause, a security source said without giving further details.
Transport Minister Hisham Arafat said "human error" led to the collision but did not elaborate.
"In order to avoid it, we have to develop the infrastructure," he told state television. A project was under way to improve the area's facilities, but such plans took time and money, he said.
One resident, Hoda, was standing on her rooftop when she saw the trains plough into each other. "They rose in the air forming a pyramid when they collided," she said. "I started to scream from the rooftops for people to grab some sheets and run."
"The train I was riding was going very quickly," said passenger Moumen Youssef. "I found myself on the floor. When we came out, we found four train cars crushed and a lot of people on the ground."
Egyptians have long complained that successive governments failed to enforce basic safeguards for the railways. A string of crashes have further inflamed public anger over the antiquated transport network.
In 2012, a train rammed into a school bus south of Cairo and killed 50 people, mostly children.
In Egypt's worst train disaster, a fire tore through seven carriages of an overcrowded passenger train in 2002, killing at least 360 people.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
BEDMINSTER, N.J. (Reuters) - President Donald Trump said on Friday he hoped North Korea "fully" understood the gravity of his words warning Pyongyang against taking any military action against the United States or its allies.
"I hope that they are going to fully understand the gravity of what I said, and what I said is what I mean," Trump told reporters at his golf resort in New Jersey. "Those words are very easy to understand."
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenyan police fired tear gas on Friday to contain political protests in the western city of Kisumu city, an opposition stronghold, and Mathare, a Nairobi slum, Reuters witnesses said.
The protests broke out minutes after the election commission said President Uhuru Kenyatta had won a second five-year term in this week's polls despite fierce objections from opposition leader Raila Odinga about the fairness of the vote.
KABUL (Reuters) - The U.S. military denied reports on Friday that an air strike in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar had killed as many as 16 civilians, saying the operation had killed only militant fighters.
"The militants were observed loading weapons into a vehicle and were under surveillance until the vehicle was destroyed by an air strike," said Bob Purtiman, a spokesman for the U.S. military in Afghanistan.
"The strike was conducted in the middle of open terrain. There was zero chance of civilian casualties," he said.
Earlier in the day, the district governor of Haska Mena district, Saaz Wali, told reporters that as many as 16 civilians, including women and children had been killed when a passenger van and a nearby house were hit by a U.S. air strike.
Reuters Staff
1 Min Read
NAIROBI (Reuters) - The Kenya election commission on Friday declared incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta had won a second and final five-year term in this week's polls, despite opposition objections over the fairness of the vote.
Kenyatta took 54.27 percent of the vote, and opposition leader Raila Odinga took 44.74 percent, said election commission head Wafula Chebukati.
NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta offered an olive branch to the opposition on Friday after being declared winner of this week's elections, and urged national unity and peace in the wake of a divisive dispute over the fairness of the poll.
"I reach out to you, I reach out to all your supporters," Kenyatta said in comments directed to opposition leader Raila Odinga. "To our brothers, our worthy competitors, we are not enemies, we are all citizens of the same republic."