
BUDAPEST The Hungarian nationalist opposition party Jobbik said on Monday it would resubmit to parliament a constitutional amendment banning the resettlement of migrants in Hungary.
The amendment was submitted by Prime Minister Viktor Orban but fell short of the needed two-thirds majority in parliament last week, largely because Jobbik abstained from voting. But the party's chairman, Gabor Vona, told reporters he planned to resubmit the amendment, verbatim.
Jobbik said it had blocked the amendment's passage because of the government's refusal to scrap a separate scheme allowing foreigners to buy residency rights. Once that scheme is scrapped, Jobbik said, it would support the amendment.
Vona's version will add a one-sentence provision to the amendment doing away with those so-called residency bonds, which thousands of foreigners, mainly Chinese, have taken advantage of.
"We have always been against the residency bonds," Vona said. "With the plebiscite after the referendum we received an opportunity to raise this issue in a much more powerful way."
"It is downright absurd that just two weeks ago, after an anti-immigrant campaign that cost Hungarian taxpayers 15 billion forints ($52.22 million), the government opened a residency bond sales point in Iraq, not far from the center of ISIS."
He said the residency scheme was one symptom of what he called endemic corruption in the Hungarian state apparatus. The government has rejected the corruption allegations.
Jobbik has consistently advocated a total ban on immigration but voted against the constitutional amendment because they said it was incomplete, with no reference to the residency bonds.
"Now we'll see how important the constitutional amendment is for (Orban's party) Fidesz," Vona said.
Orban had said the amendment was needed to honor an October referendum, in which more than three million Hungarians, an overwhelming majority of those who voted, rejected EU quotas stipulating how many migrants member states must accept.
Giving way to Jobbik's demand would have been politically difficult for Orban and on Friday he said the government would not resubmit the law.
The latest poll by research center Tarki showed Jobbik's support at 10 percent in October, down from 14 percent in July. Fidesz widened its support to 32 percent from 30 percent. The next election is due in 2018.

Russia's President Vladimir Putin and his U.S. counterpart Barack Obama may discuss developments around Syria when both leaders come to Peru later this week, state TASS agency quoted Kremlin's spokesman as saying on Monday.
Dmitry Peskov said the two presidents may meet on the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit that Peru should host on November 19-20.
Peskov reiterated that Putin had no immediate plan to meet the U.S. president-elect Donald Trump in person.

LONDON Britain has established ways of contacting President-elect Donald Trump and is building contacts with him, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday when asked about a U.S. trip by Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage.
Farage met Trump on Saturday, the first British politician to visit the newly elected president of the United States, and suggested that he should become a "go-between" for the government and the U.S. administration.
"We have established routes of engagement with the President-elect and his team. Our diplomatic staff have been building those contacts and links in the run up to the election," the spokeswoman said when asked whether the government would accept advice from Farage.
Repeatedly questioned about a possible role for Farage, the spokeswoman referred to a call between May and Trump on Thursday, in which Trump invited the British Prime Minister to visit him as soon as possible and underlined the importance of the U.S.-British relationship.
"The President-elect talked about enjoying the same close relationship that Reagan and Thatcher did," the spokeswoman said referring to the close ties developed between ex-prime minister Thatcher and former-U.S. President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s.
"I don't remember there being a third person in that relationship," she said.

TRIPOLI/TUNIS Libya's U.N.-backed government has appointed a finance minister and deputy finance minister in a move it hopes will unlock crucial funding from the central bank and revive its flagging fortunes.
But the appointments by the Government of National Accord (GNA) are likely to anger powerbrokers in eastern Libya because they have not been approved by a rival parliament based there which does not recognize the authority of the GNA.
The GNA has struggled to secure and disburse funds since it arrived in Tripoli in March, hindering its attempts to end conflict and economic collapse in Libya that set in after the fall of Muammar Gaddafi five years ago.
The GNA leadership, known as the Presidential Council, said in a statement it was appointing Osama Saleh, aligned with eastern factions, as finance minister, and Abubakr al-Jafal as his deputy. It also named deputy ministers for local government and foreign affairs.
The nominations follow an international meeting on Libya in London last month that aimed to mend a dispute between the Presidential Council and the Central Bank of Libya (CBL) and to prevent further financial and political chaos.
Jafal is expected to be a key point of contact between the council and the CBL who can help to get payments signed off and disbursed, according to diplomatic sources briefed on recent negotiations, though it remains unclear exactly how that process will work.
During the London meeting the CBL agreed in principle to make 8.6 billion dinars ($6 billion) available to the council, including 5 billion for public salary payments, 800 million dinars for electricity credits, 600 million dinars for the National Oil Corporation (NOC), Libya's Audit Bureau has said.

OIL
Eastern factions, who dismissed the London meeting as a unilateral move, back a rival branch of the CBL based in eastern Libya, though it is the CBL in Tripoli that receives the oil revenues that make up almost all of Libya's income.
Oil production has doubled to around 600,000 barrels per day (bpd) since September after forces loyal to eastern commander Khalifa Haftar seized several blockaded oil ports and allowed the NOC to reopen them.
But output remains far below the 1.6 million bpd Libya was producing in 2011 and recent production gains are seen as fragile without any political deal.
The GNA, the result of a U.N.-mediated deal signed last December, is supposed to replace rival governments set up in Tripoli and eastern Libya in 2014.
But it has not managed to secure the endorsement of the powerbrokers in the east and has also lost support in western Libya over its inability to resolve a cash crisis and deal with insecurity and failing public services.
A group of mediators convened by the United Nations called last Friday for the eastern parliament to formally adopt the December deal and for the Presidential Council "to improve its performance to address the stifling security, social and economic problems that face Libyan citizens across the country".

ISLAMABAD/SRINAGAR, India Seven Pakistani soldiers were killed by Indian shelling across the frontier in the disputed Kashmir region overnight, Pakistan's military said on Monday, as tensions between the nuclear-armed neighbors simmer.
Pakistan's military media wing, ISPR, said in a statement the seven soldiers were killed in the Bhimber sector on the "Line of Control" de facto border in Pakistan-administered Kashmir.
A spokesman for India's army said its soldiers had responded to Pakistani firing on Sunday night.
"There was a brief ceasefire violation initiated by Pakistani in Noushera sector which was effectively retaliated last night," the spokesman told Reuters, declining to comment on any Indian casualties.
He also said there was ongoing firing between the two countries' forces on Monday along another part of the frontier.
Relations between Pakistan and India have been strained for several months, while cross-frontier shelling has intensified in recent weeks leading to deaths of civilians and soldiers stationed along the disputed frontier.
Tensions have been fraught since July when India-administered Kashmir was rocked by street protests after the killing of a militant leader there.
Islamabad launched an international campaign to highlight alleged rights abuses by Indian security forces in Kashmir, while New Delhi blamed Pakistan for fanning the unrest.
New Delhi also blamed Pakistan-based militants for a deadly attack on an Indian army base in the region in September, a charge Islamabad rejected.
Several days later, India said it had carried out "surgical strikes" on militant bases across the border. Pakistan dismissed the claim as "an illusion".
Kashmir lies at the heart of the tension between India and Pakistan and the countries have fought two of their three wars over the region since partition and independence from Britain in 1947.

MARRAKESH, Morocco (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Natural disasters have a more devastating impact on the poor than widely thought, forcing some 26 million people into poverty each year and setting back global spending on goods and services by the equivalent of $520 billion annually, the World Bank said on Monday.
The human and economic costs of disasters, caused by extreme weather and earthquakes, have been underestimated by up to 60 percent because they ignore the high toll on the consumption and related well-being of the poor, the bank said in a new study.
“Severe climate shocks threaten to roll back decades of progress against poverty,” said World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim in a statement. "Building resilience to disasters not only makes economic sense, it is a moral imperative.”
Stephane Hallegatte, lead author of the report, said poor people tend to suffer more from disasters as they often live in places that are hit more often, and lose a bigger share of their income. They also receive less support from governments, friends and family, he added.
The report notes that a flood or earthquake can be disastrous for poor people but have a negligible impact on a country's overall wealth or production if it affects people who own almost nothing and have very low incomes.
But for them, disasters can have damaging long-term effects, such as forcing families to take a child out of school or to spend less on healthcare, it adds.
Among Guatemalan households hit by tropical storm Agatha in 2010, per capita consumption fell 5.5 percent, hiking poverty by 14 percent, according to research cited by the bank.
"Dealing with climate change and natural disasters and resilience is an important component of poverty reduction policy," Hallegatte told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
If the value of assets threatened by disasters is the main factor in planning how to reduce risks, the majority of support will go to better-off countries and communities, he said.
The aim of the report - produced in response to demand from governments - is to help states balance protecting financial returns with taking care of the poor.
The World Bank plans to use the findings to steer policy discussions with countries on managing risks across the board.
The research could also guide countries on putting into practice their climate change action plans, submitted for the Paris Agreement that took effect on Nov. 4, Hallegatte said.
"If we select priorities based on our measure of the impact of natural disasters on well-being, we will be able to spend not only efficiently but also help the poorest," he said.
   
GOOD FOR PROSPERITY
The study, produced with the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR), uses a new method of measuring damages that factors in the unequal burden of disasters.
It also calculates that measures to help the poor withstand shocks could save countries and communities $100 billion a year and cut the impact of disasters on well-being by a fifth.  
Those measures include creating early warning systems and giving wider access to personal banking, as well as insurance policies and social protection systems such as cash transfers and public works programs.
The report gives a breakdown of the potential well-being gains for each of the 117 countries analyzed, including rich and poor nations, and suggests that it is not only the less well-off who could benefit from changes.
The United States, for instance, is classed as having lower socio-economic resilience to disasters - the ability of an economy to limit the effect of asset losses on well-being - than the Philippines. It stands to make gains of nearly $8 billion per year from investing in efforts to boost resilience, the report says.
Hallegatte, a lead economist with the GFDRR, said it was not yet possible to put a price on the measures required because they would differ from place to place, and in many cases the costs would be shared between states and other funding sources.
But it was in the interests of society to invest in boosting the resilience of the poor to disasters because it would cost less than bailing people out and rebuilding afterwards, he said.
For example, social protection systems in Kenya and Uganda provided resources to vulnerable farmers well before drought hit in 2015, saving lives and cutting spending on emergency aid compared with similar droughts a decade ago, he said. 
"If you have social protection systems... taxpayers will be the winners in the end because it is less costly than waiting for the catastrophe to happen," he said. "There is a very selfish argument for reducing poverty, because it is just good for the prosperity of your country."

ISTANBUL Three people were wounded by an explosion in Istanbul on Monday thought to have come from a package sent by courier to an electronics company in the Maltepe district of the city, broadcaster CNN Turk said.
Maltepe is a commercial and residential district on the Asian side of Istanbul. Turkey has been on high alert in recent weeks after a spate of attacks by Islamic State, Kurdish and far-leftist militants.

BAGHDAD A suicide bomber killed six people near Iraq's holy city of Kerbala on Monday at the start of a major Shi'ite Muslim ritual, an attack claimed by the hardline Sunni militants of Islamic State.
The bomber blew himself up west of the city where hundreds of thousands of Shi'ites were gathering to mark Arbaeen, which comes at the end of a 40-day mourning period for Imam Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet Mohammad.
Security forces killed five of the bomber's accomplices before surrounding him in a house where he detonated the device in the rural area of Ain al-Tamr, the ministry added.
Islamic State said in a statement it had planned to target Shi'ites, police and army personnel.
Huge crowds visit the shrines of Hussein and his half-brother Abbas in Kerbala, where they were killed in the 7th century AD, in a revolt against the Umayyad ruler Yazeed.
Islamic State says Shi'ite Muslims are apostates and has regularly attacked their mosques and events.

TOKYO Japan and South Korea signed a preliminary pact to share and safeguard sensitive information on North Korea's missile and nuclear activities on Monday, a move that had already prompted anger among opposition lawmakers in Seoul.
The signing of the General Security of Military Information Agreement had originally been expected in 2012, but South Korea postponed it amid domestic opposition against concluding such a security pact with Japan, a one-time colonial ruler.
Japan's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that discussions in the third round of the talks had reached an agreement and that a provisional signing had taken place.
Discussions would continue ahead of a final signing, which Kyodo news agency said could take place by the end of November.
Reclusive North Korea, which is still technically at war with the South because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty, has carried out repeated nuclear and missile tests in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions and sanctions.
Tokyo's ties with Seoul, plagued by a territorial dispute and Japan's past military aggression, have warmed after reaching a landmark agreement last December to resolve the issue of Korean girls and women forced to work in Japan's wartime brothels.
South Korean opposition parties had warned against signing the agreement, threatening to dismiss or impeach Defence Minister Han Min-koo.

TUNIS Tunisian forces captured three large arms caches near the border with Libya over the weekend, including Kalashnikov rifles, rockets and landmines, the interior ministry said.
The caches in the border city of Ben Guerdane will stoke Tunisia's concerns about the threat of Islamist militants crossing over Libya, where pro-government forces are close to ending Islamic State's hold on Sirte city.
Islamic State, fighting to set up a Caliphate following its brand of Islam across North Africa and the Middle East, sent dozens of Islamic State fighters into Ben Guerdane in March, attacking army and police posts and killing at least 53 people.
Many of the militants in Libya are originally from Tunisia, and the country's young democracy since its 2011 uprising has been seen as a target for the hardline Islamist group.
Tunisia has increased security measures on the border with Libya to avoid the infiltration of hundreds of Islamic state fighters who may have fled from Sirte. European countries are also helping with training and technology to protect the border.
Two arms caches were discovered on Saturday and the third was found on Sunday, the ministry said.

TAUNGGYI, Myanmar Myanmar's military has killed about 30 members of what it has described as a Rohingya Muslim militant group, state media said on Monday, marking the largest escalation of the conflict since fighting erupted in the northwest a month ago.
The weekend's killings in restive Rakhine state have essentially destroyed any hopes for a swift resolution to the fighting and a gradual restoration of communal ties, observers and diplomats say.
Soldiers have poured into the Maungdaw area along Myanmar's frontier with Bangladesh in the north of Rakhine, responding to coordinated attacks on three border posts on Oct. 9 in which nine police officers were killed.
Security forces have locked down the area, where the vast majority are Rohingya Muslims - shutting out aid workers and independent observers - and conducted sweeps of villages.
Skirmishes took place throughout the weekend with state media reporting casualties sustained both on Saturday and Sunday. The total death toll from the weekend was unclear, but included at least 28 alleged attackers and two soldiers.
This has increased the number of casualties since Oct.9 to more than 60 for the suspected Rohingya Muslim attackers and 17 for the security forces, according to a Reuters estimate based on reports by state-owned media.
The violence is the most serious to hit Rakhine since hundreds were killed in communal clashes in 2012.
Myanmar's 1.1 million Rohingya Muslims are the majority in northern Rakhine but they are denied citizenship, with many Buddhists regarding them as illegal immigrants from neighboring Bangladesh. They face severe travel restrictions.
Residents and human rights advocates have accused security forces of summary executions, rapes and setting fire to homes in the recent violence.
Satellite images showed a widespread destruction of Rohingya villages, including some 430 homes that have been burnt down, Human Rights Watch said on Saturday, adding the destruction was worse than initially feared.
The government and the army reject the accusations, saying they were conducting "clearance operation" in the villages in accordance with the rule of law. They have blamed the "violent attackers" for setting fires to homes.
On Sunday, the military killed at least 19 people after coming under attack from a group wielding machetes and wooden clubs, the state-owned Global New Light of Myanmar said.
On Saturday, the army killed six people and called in helicopters to reinforce, the paper said.
Three more bodies of suspected attackers were found "in the aftermath of the clearance operation", it said.
Rohingya rights advocates have spread online video clips showing what they claimed were civilian casualties of the attacks, calling on the international community to investigate.
Because access for independent journalists to the area has been cut, Reuters could not independently verify either the government accounts or the video clips.


WASHINGTON U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping established a "clear sense of mutual respect" in a telephone call on Sunday night, Trump's presidential transition office said early on Monday.
In a statement, the office said Trump thanked Xi for his congratulations after winning Tuesday's presidential election over Democrat Hillary Clinton.
"During the call, the leaders established a clear sense of mutual respect for one another, and President-elect Trump stated that he believes the two leaders will have one of the strongest relationships for both countries moving forward," it said.

KABUL/CAIRO From Afghanistan to Algeria, jihadists plan to use Donald Trump's shock U.S. presidential victory as a propaganda tool to bring new fighters to their battlefields.
Taliban commanders and Islamic State supporters say Trump's campaign trail rhetoric against Muslims -  at one point calling for a total shutdown of Muslims entering the United States - will play perfectly in their recruitment efforts, especially for disaffected youth in the West.
"This guy is a complete maniac. His utter hate towards Muslims will make our job much easier because we can recruit thousands," Abu Omar Khorasani, a top IS commander in Afghanistan, told Reuters.
Trump has talked tough against militant groups on the campaign trail, promising to defeat "radical Islamic terrorism just as we won the Cold War."
The president-elect later toned down his call for a total ban on Muslim entry to say he would temporarily suspend immigration from countries that have "a history of exporting terrorism."
But he has offered few details on his plans to combat various radical groups, including IS, the Taliban and al Qaeda, which represent a wide spectrum of political views.
"He does not differentiate between extremist and moderate Islamist trends and, at the same time, he overlooks (the fact) that his extremism will generate extremism in return," Iraq's powerful Shi'ite Muslim cleric Moqtada al-Sadr said in a statement.
Sadr's political reform movement, which commands thousands of followers, is a staunch opponent of the radical Sunni movements IS and al Qaeda, and unlike them has not waged or promoted attacks in the West.
The United States has seen a handful of attacks inspired by  Islamist militant groups, including the June massacre of 49 people at an Orlando nightclub by a gunman who called a TV station swearing allegiance to IS and the killing of 14 people at a San Bernadino, California, social services agency last December.
U.S. officials have warned the country will likely face a higher risk of similar attacks as IS urges supporters to launch attacks at home instead of joining its fight in the Middle East.
"Our leaders were closely following the U.S. election but it was unexpected that the Americans will dig their own graves and they did so," said IS's Khorasani, who described President Barack Obama as a moderate infidel with at least a little brain in comparison to Trump.
Al Qaeda, which has proven resilient more than 15 years after launching the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon, has yet to comment on Trump's victory.
The militant group will likely respond after Trump's first speeches as president, anticipating they will be able to exploit his comments to win support, said Hisham al Hashemi, who advises the Iraqi government on Sunni jihadist movements.
"Al Qaeda is known for its recruitment strategy that heavily quotes speeches of the White House and other Western officials," he told Reuters.

PROPAGANDA MACHINE
Trump's office did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the statements from the militants.
Even if Trump tones down his anti-Muslim comments when he takes office in January, analysts say his statements during the campaign trail were enough to fuel the militants' propaganda machine.
"Militants will still use those quotes," said Matthew Henman, head of IHS Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Centre.
"The key thing militant groups, particularly Islamic State and al Qaeda, depend on for recruitment purposes is convincing Muslims in the Western world that the West hates them and won't ever accept them as part of their society."
A senior Taliban commander in Afghanistan said the group, whose resurgence is undermining efforts to end America's longest war, had kept track of all of Trump's speeches and anti-Muslim comments.
"If he does what he warned in his election campaign, I am sure it will provoke Muslim Ummah (community) across the world and jihadi organizations can exploit it," said the militant leader, who declined to be identified because of strict Taliban policy that only its official spokesman can make statements.
Shortly after Trump's victory, several jihadist sympathizers  took to social media to declare this as an opportunity for their cause.
"The dog Trump's victory in the U.S. elections is a gold mine for Muslims not a setback if they know how to use it," tweeted @alhlm200, who regularly posts statements in support of Islamic State.
And in Algeria, @salil_chohada, an Islamic State supporter whose name on the Twitter account is Mohamed Aljazairie, said: "Congratulations to the Muslim nation over the infidel Trump's victory. His stupid statements alone serve us."

KUALA LUMPUR Most complaints of child sexual abuse in Malaysia do not lead to successful prosecutions, largely due to weaknesses in the nation's criminal justice system, police, lawmakers and child welfare groups say.
According to classified data Malaysian police compiled and shared with Reuters, 12,987 cases of child sexual abuse were reported to police between January 2012 and July of this year. Charges were filed in 2,189 cases, resulting in just 140 convictions.
The data doesn't show how many people were involved, or what happened in the cases where there were no convictions after charges were filed. No details were disclosed in the cases where there were convictions.
Child rights advocates have long pushed the government to publicly disclose data on child sexual abuse to increase awareness so action can be taken to address what they call a growing problem.
A veil was lifted in June when a British court handed Richard Huckle 22 life sentences for abusing up to 200 babies and children, mostly in Malaysia, and sharing images of his crimes on the dark web.
The reason the Malaysian government doesn't publish child sexual abuse data is because it is protected under Malaysia's Official Secrets Act. The government provides data on child abuse only at the request of a member of parliament.
"We don't want people to misinterpret it," said Ong Chin Lan, the head of the Sexual, Women and Children Investigation Division of the Malaysian national police. The government doesn't want to unduly alarm the public about possibly high numbers of child abuse cases, she explained.
It is unclear how Malaysia's number of reported cases compares with its neighbors, some of whom are also reluctant to disclose a high incidence of child sexual abuse.
Thailand's government declined to provide data to Reuters. A senior health ministry official, who did not want to be identified, said it could "make Thailand look bad".
Cambodia, long known as a destination for traveling pedophiles, also does not disclose official data.
       
CRIMINAL JUSTICE WEAKNESS
Weak policing and child protection laws make it difficult to punish child abusers in Malaysia, leading to inadequate investigations and low convictions on the reported cases, according to officials and child welfare groups Reuters interviewed.
They also say a significant number of child sexual abuse cases are never reported because of taboos around child sex abuse and mistrust of authorities.
In 17 years of operation, PS the Children, Malaysia's biggest NGO dealing with child abuse, has seen zero convictions  on the cases it has handled, its founder Madeleine Yong told Reuters.
"There needs to be improvement in the criminal justice system if we want to encourage more people to report, otherwise we will re-victimize the child," she said.
Ong at the sexual crimes unit said police take every case of child sexual abuse seriously and "all cases are investigated in detail".
Police blame weak laws and rules governing court evidence that give little weight to children's testimony as the reason most cases never result in charges.
Malaysia does not have a law specifically prohibiting child pornography and defines rape narrowly as penile penetration. "Grooming" - touching and befriending children as a prelude to sexual abuse - draws no legal penalties.   
By contrast, Indonesia's parliament has passed legislation authorizing chemical castration, minimum sentences and even execution for convicted pedophiles. Thailand introduced stricter laws against child pornography last year.
A Child Sexual Crimes bill, expected to be introduced to parliament by the end of the year, would widen the definition of sexual crimes to include online abuse, and make such crimes easier to prosecute. It would also set up a special court to deal with child sex abuse cases more quickly.
       
THE DARK WEB
Foreign pedophiles could be targeting Malaysia as other countries around the region strengthen child protection laws and step up enforcement, some experts said.
Snow White Smelser, program officer at the child sex offences team in the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime's (UNODC) East Asia headquarters in Bangkok, said pedophiles compare notes and share information online about countries, where they can operate most freely.
Elena Martellozzo, a London-based criminologist who specializes in child sex abuse on the internet, said Huckle could have chosen Malaysia "because it was not on the radar, or perhaps it's where he found it easier to get work permits, visas and some work opportunities".
Typically, children are sexually abused by someone they know - a neighbor, a relative, a caregiver, or someone like Huckle, who according to court testimony groomed children in an impoverished ethnic Indian neighborhood in Kuala Lumpur.
But increasingly, pedophile activity is moving into the online world, police say.
Australian detectives who investigate pedophiles in the region believe Malaysia has become one of Southeast Asia's biggest centers for the transmission of child pornography on the Internet.
Team Argos, the Australian detective unit that found Huckle in the dark web in late 2014, made a startling discovery from the team's scouring of online pedophile networks: the unusual number of internet addresses in the Kuala Lumpur area transmitting child sexual abuse material from the dark web.
The dark web is a vast virtual space within the Internet, which requires special encryption tools to access.
The Brisbane, Australia-based detectives found 1,000 transmissions of child pornographic materials from the Malaysian capital over a 24-hour period last year, according to Argos data provided by the UNODC.
It was the second-largest transmission location in Southeast Asia after Bangkok's 1,800 - Bangkok's population of 8.2 million is more than four times that of Kuala Lumpur's.
The Malaysian capital is a "high concern" location for the distribution of child sexual abuse materials, said Smelser at the UNODC.
Ong at the child sex crime unit said Malaysian police can't properly monitor the encrypted pedophile networks. "We do not have expertise in handling the dark web. We get alerted from our counterparts overseas," she said.

SYDNEY New Zealand Prime Minister John Key has indicated that the damage bill from a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit the nation's South Island overnight is likely to be at least "a couple of billion dollars", Radio New Zealand said on Monday.
"It's hard to believe that the bill is going to be less than a couple of billion," he told Radio New Zealand, according to their Twitter account.


MANILA The Philippines police will push ahead with the purchase of 26,000 assault rifles from a U.S. supplier, the police chief said on Monday, following an about-face by President Rodrigo Duterte, who previously said the deal would be scrapped.
Duterte had a week ago expressed anger at "fools" and "monkeys" in Washington seeking to block the deal and said he would cancel it himself. But Duterte's police chief said he revoked that decision, apparently after Republican Donald Trump's surprise win in the U.S. presidential election.
"(The president) told me to continue the deal," Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Dela Rosa, told a news conference.
"The processing of documents are going on smoothly ... we have the blessing of the president to continue the transaction."
Dela Rosa did not say why Duterte had changed his mind, but he said there would be a new president in Washington and "he and Donald Trump are friends".
Aides to Ben Cardin, who sits on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, last month said the State Department had been informed Cardin would oppose the deal during the prenotification process, effectively putting the brakes on it.
Cardin was reluctant for the United States to provide weapons to the police given concern about alleged human rights violations in Duterte's war on drugs, which killed 2,300 people in its first four months.
The tough-talking Duterte has been incensed by U.S. concerns about a drugs crackdown he says is needed to save his country from ruin.
He has regularly berated the Obama administration but has expressed a desire to work with Trump.
Dela Rosa said it was possible the president would scrap the guns deal if there were an intervention in Washington.
"If they will block it, I'm sure the president will again tell me to stop it. We're paying for it, we're not begging for it," he said.

SOFIA Bulgarian Socialist ally Rumen Radev, a Russia-friendly newcomer to politics, won the Bulgarian presidential election, partial official results showed on Monday.
Former air force commander Radev won 59.4 percent of the vote, compared with 36.2 percent for the candidate of the ruling center-right GERB party, Tsetska Tsacheva, with 99.3 percent of polling stations counted.
The results, which reflected exit polls, meant Radev will take office for a 5-year term on Jan. 22 next year.

WELLINGTON A slip dam caused by a series of earthquakes that have hit New Zealand, blocking the Clarence River on the South Island, has breached and sent a wall of water heading downstream, Radio New Zealand quoted local authorities as saying on Monday.
"Residents are urgently advised to move to higher ground immediately," RNZ quoted a statement from the Marlborough District Council as saying. A powerful 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit overnight, followed by hundreds of aftershocks.

WELLINGTON A strong earthquake that hit New Zealand could cause a tsunami and residents on the South Island's east coast should seek higher ground, New Zealand's Civil Defence said on its twitter feed on Monday.
The U.S. Geological Survey said the 7.4 magnitude quake struck just after midnight and was centered around 90 km north of Christchurch, which was devastated by a 6.3 quake in February 2011.

SYDNEY New Zealand Police said at least one person has been killed in a powerful earthquake that struck the Pacific country early on Monday.
"One casualty has been reported at a collapsed property in Kaikoura," NZ Police said in a statement.
The coastal tourist town of Kaikoura is near the epicenter of the 7.8 magnitude quake, located some 91 km (57 miles) north-northeast of Christchurch in the South Island.

KABUL Afghanistan's new anti-corruption court heard its first cases on Saturday, a small step forward in President Ashraf Ghani's efforts to combat graft at the highest levels of government.
The Anti-Corruption Criminal Justice Centre was created by Ghani's administration in June to bolster the legal system's ability to tackle corrupt ministers, judges and governors, who have largely been immune from prosecution.
The first two cases heard by the court, which included a female judge, did not involve top government officials but a Supreme Court prosecutor and a private bank official - a fact highlighted by defense lawyers.
"I wish the start of this court was by a million dollar corruption case, not by a 50,000 afghani ($761.04) corruption case," Farid Arabzai, a lawyer representing the prosecutor, told the three-judge panel at the Kabul court hearing.
The government has said it would pursue dozens of cases of corruption involving senior government officials, but has not provided any names.
"There are more cases under investigation at this center and as soon as the investigation of those cases is over the ACJC will announce its decision," said Jamshid Rasouli, spokesman for the attorney general's office, on the sidelines of the small courtroom packed with media, civil society organizations and diplomats.
Ghani is under pressure to step up the fight against endemic corruption as international donors demand more results in return for billions of dollars in foreign aid.
Michael Hartmann, chief of the rule of law unit at the U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, welcomed the start of the court hearings, saying it showed that Kabul's anti-graft fight was a top priority.
Afghanistan is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, ranked 166th out of 168 nations by watchdog group Transparency International. U.S. officials say the problem undermines its fight against the Taliban.
U.S. senators in September warned that failure to address corruption could lead Washington to rethink its annual spending of around $5 billion per year in Afghanistan.
Ghani has taken steps including addressing financial wrongdoing, cancelling suspicious fuel contracts and firing corrupt civil servants.

MOSCOW Russia has banned Michael McFaul, a former U.S. ambassador to Moscow under President Barack Obama, from entering the country, McFaul and Russian Foreign Ministry sources said.
Russia has a travel ban in place on some U.S. officials in retaliation for a U.S. ban on Russian officials entering the United States.
McFaul, U.S. ambassador in Moscow from 2012-2014, said he had learnt of the ban when applying for a visa to Russia to help defeated presidential candidate Hillary Clinton prepare for what he thought would be her transition to the White House.
"I have hundreds of friends in Russia. I'm really sorry that these sanctions will make communicating with people harder," McFaul wrote on social media on Saturday.
In a separate earlier post, he described why he thought he had been sanctioned.
"(I) was told that I am the Kremlin's sanctions list because of my close affiliation with Obama. I will take that as a compliment! The U.S. sanctioned Russians close to (President Vladimir) Putin."
"To the best of my knowledge, George Kennan was the last U.S. ambassador to USSR/Russia to be banned from traveling there." Moscow declared Kennan persona non grata in 1952.
The Russian Foreign Ministry did not publicly confirm the ban, but ministry sources told Russian news agencies McFaul had been added to a sanctions list in 2014.
He was not banned because of his support for Obama, a Foreign Ministry source told the TASS and RIA news agencies, but because of his "active participation in the destruction of the bilateral relationship and relentless lobbying in favor of a campaign to pressure Russia."
The Kremlin had strained relations with McFaul when he was ambassador, bridling at his contacts with the opposition.
McFaul is now a professor of political science at Stanford University.

KABUL The Afghan parliament sacked the minister of foreign affairs and two of his cabinet colleagues on Saturday citing poor performance, in a sweeping move that underlined the fragility of President Ashraf Ghani's struggling government.
Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, Public Works Minister Mahmood Baligh and Social Services Minister Nasreen Oryakhel all failed to win confidence votes in parliament and were declared to have been dismissed by the speaker.
All three were dismissed for their performance and failure to spend all allocated budgetary funds on time, in accordance with provisions in the Afghan constitution which gives parliament the power to sack ministers. Fourteen other ministers are due to face similar confidence votes.
At a time when the Taliban insurgency is threatening security across Afghanistan, the move creates further confusion for the national unity government which has been mired in infighting ever since it was set up following the disputed election of 2014.
A suicide attack by Taliban militants on the German consulate in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif this week killed four people and wounded more than 100 others.
Former rivals Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah have presided over an uneasy alliance that also includes the volatile vice President General Rashid Dostum and has featured regular rows between the main leaders.
Patched together with U.S. backing after accusations of electoral fraud on both sides, the government was supposed to have overseen fresh parliamentary elections and a constitutional grand council to re-establish political legitimacy.
However, a two-year deadline has passed with none of the promised steps taken, leaving question marks over the future of the government at a time when political uncertainty is already being stoked by rising ethnic tensions.

AMSTERDAM The executive body of the global chemical weapons watchdog voted on Friday to condemn the use of banned toxic agents by the Syrian government and by the militant group Islamic State, a source who took part in the closed session said.
Roughly two-thirds of the 41 members on the Executive Council of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), endorsed a text compiled by Spain, sources told Reuters.
An initial U.S. draft was replaced with a compromise text drafted by Spain, which dropped a reference to sanctions against those responsible for violations of the Chemical Weapons Convention, sources added.
The OPCW's Executive Council, which meets behind closed doors, seldom votes on such matters, generally operating through consensus. But this text was supported by 28 members, including Germany, France, the United States and Britain.
It was opposed by Russia, China, Sudan and Iran. There were nine abstentions. Russia and Iran are Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's main allies against rebels seeking to overthrow him. Western and Gulf Arab states back the rebels.
"There is a clear determination across the international community to hold those who have used these heinous weapons to account," said British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson in a statement responding to the vote.
But a U.S.-Russian split over Syria highlighted continuing divisions. It was these two countries that in 2013 took the lead in getting the Damascus government to join the OPCW and avert threatened U.S.-led military intervention in Syria's civil war.
A 13-month international inquiry by the OPCW and United Nations concluded in a series of reports that Syrian government forces, including helicopter squadrons, were responsible for the use of chlorine barrel bombs against civilians.
The OPCW-U.N. mission found that the Syrian government carried out three toxic attacks in March and April of last year, while Islamic State militants had used sulphur mustard gas.
The findings set the stage for a U.N. Security Council showdown between the five veto-wielding powers, likely pitting Russia and China against the United States, Britain and France over how those responsible for the attacks should be held accountable.
Syrian authorities deny having used chemical weapons in the conflict. Islamic State has not commented.

NEW DELHI India's finance minister said on Saturday it would take time for banks to make changes to automated teller machines to dispense the new bank notes as millions of people lined up at branches to get cash.
Arun Jaitley said ATMs had not been calibrated before the announcement this week to demonetize 500 and 1,000 rupee notes for secrecy reasons. "It is a massive operation, it will take time."

ANKARA Turkey's military killed 18 Islamic State militants in northern Syria over the last 24 hours, the army said on Saturday, intensifying strikes against the militant group.
Four buildings and one vehicle used by the Islamic State fighters were destroyed in the strikes, an army statement said.
Separately, five Turkey-backed rebels and five Islamic State militants were killed in clashes on the ground, the army said in its statement. In addition, it said coalition forces conducted six air strikes which killed another 10 Islamic State militants.
Turkey is backing a group of Syrian Arabs and Turkmen in northern Syria in its Euphrates Shield operation, which has swept Islamic State from its southern border.
The hardline Sunni group claimed responsibility for a car bomb attack in the Turkish southeastern city of Diyarbakir that killed 11 last week.
However, an offshoot of the Kurdish militant Kurdish group PKK claimed the same attack. Kurdish militants, Islamic State radicals and far leftists have all staged attacks on civilians in Turkey in recent years.



MOSCOW The Russian Defense Ministry said on Saturday it would need the U.N. mission in Syria to formally confirm its ability to deliver aid to eastern Aleppo before Moscow agreed to any new humanitarian pauses in fighting in the shattered Syrian city.
Moscow says previous temporary ceasefires on the ground, called to allow aid deliveries and the evacuation of the wounded and civilians, have come to nothing because rebels have opened fire on anyone trying to come in or out.
Rebels contest that and say it is the Syrian army and its allies who have sabotaged the humanitarian pauses.
"The Russian Defense Ministry will be ready to consider introducing new 'humanitarian pauses' at any time as soon as representatives of the U.N. mission in Syria officially confirm their readiness and possibility to deliver humanitarian aid to eastern Aleppo and to evacuate wounded and sick civilians," Major-General Igor Konashenkov said in a statement.
The occasional humanitarian pauses on the ground are distinct from a unilateral moratorium on Russian air strikes on rebel targets inside Aleppo, which remains in place for now.

BRUSSELS Donald Trump's election as U.S. president poses risks for the relationship between the European Union and the United States, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said on Friday.
The shock winner of Tuesday's U.S. election was ignorant of the EU and its workings, Juncker told students at a conference in Luxembourg which can be viewed on the EU's website. ( here )
"The election of Trump poses the risk of upsetting intercontinental relations in their foundation and in their structure," said Juncker, who as head of the EU's executive is one of Europe's most powerful political figures.
His blunt remarks reflected widespread shock and concern among Europeans at the election of Trump, who among other statements has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin and questioned the principle of collective defense in NATO.
His comments contrasted with the more diplomatic reactions of European leaders who have said they look forward to working with the next Republican president.
Juncker warned against the "pernicious" consequences of Trump's statements on security policy. He also recalled a Trump statement in which he seemed to think that Belgium, the country that hosts the headquarters of the EU and NATO, was a city.
"We will need to teach the president-elect what Europe is and how it works," Juncker said, adding that Americans usually had no interest in Europe.
"I think we will waste two years before Mr Trump tours the world he does not know," said Juncker, who on Thursday had already raised doubts about Trump's views on global trade, climate policy and Western security..

LIMA Peruvian prosecutors said they have evidence to convict ex-president Ollanta Humala of money laundering, accusing him of taking illicit funds from Venezuela and Brazilian construction companies, the attorney general's office said Friday.
A judge granted prosecutors' request to order Humala to deposit a 50,000 ($14,671) soles bail bond to ensure he appears in court and cooperates with the money laundering probe that started shortly after his five-year term ended in July.
Humala has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and has said he will cooperate fully with prosecutors.
Prosecutor German Juarez said he has "serious and founded elements for conviction" that includes documents and statements from witnesses and informants, the attorney general's office said in a statement.
However, prosecutors have not yet pressed charges against Humala, a former military officer who was once an ally of late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez before he campaigned as a more moderate leftist in his successful 2011 bid for the presidency.
Juarez said Humala took illicit funds from Venezuela and from the Brazilian construction companies Odebrecht and OAS to finance his 2006 and 2011 presidential bids, Juarez said.
Odebrecht, OAS and the government of Venezuela could not immediately be reached outside of regular working hours on Friday. All have previously denied any wrongdoing.
Humala's attorney Cesar Espinoza said prosecutors failed to corroborate the testimony of informants and appealed the judge's order, which requires Humala to appear in court every 30 days and to request permission if he wants to change his residence.



CARACAS Venezuela's opposition and the government of President Nicolas Maduro engaged in a new round of talks on Friday evening as part of a Vatican-backed dialogue process meant to ease a political standoff amid the spiraling economic crisis.
Neither side appeared optimistic, however, with the opposition insisting on a recall referendum against Maduro and the Socialist administration showing little indication of agreeing to that.
The government released a small group of jailed opposition activists following the start of talks last week, and the opposition postponed a political trial in Congress against Maduro and canceled a march to the presidential palace.
But Jesus Torrealba, executive secretary of the opposition's Democratic Unity coalition, said before the meeting on Friday that Maduro's adversaries were ready to resume confrontation.
"The truce is over, what's coming is struggle," said Torrealba. "There is no contradiction between struggle and dialogue."
Television footage showed four top Socialist Party officials and four counterparts from the opposition, as well as representatives from the church, regional bloc Unasur, and former Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Maduro did not appear in the images.
There was no word on when the meeting might end. The first meeting between the two sides, held on Sunday Oct. 30, stretched well into dawn hours.
The political crisis intensified in recent weeks after elections authorities scuttled an opposition effort to request a recall against Maduro following accusations of fraud in a preliminary signature drive.
The opposition accuses the 53-year-old president of being responsible for the country's crisis, which includes triple-digit inflation, a recession and shortages of food and medicine.
Maduro, who was elected president in 2013 after the death of late socialist leader Hugo Chavez, calls the situation the result of an "economic war" led by the opposition in efforts to unseat him.
Earlier on Friday, he lambasted what he said was the opposition's lack of commitment to dialogue.
"It was so hard to get them to sit down at the table and now they're threatening to leave," Maduro said during his new salsa music radio show.
For the dialogue to continue, the opposition is insisting the government release more than a hundred jailed activists, allow international humanitarian assistance, and name a new board of directors to the elections council.
They also have demanded respect for decisions by the opposition-led Congress, which has had nearly every one of its measures shot down by the top court.
Maduro in turn has demanded that Congress respect a top court sentence that effectively stripped the opposition of a super majority won last year, a sentence the opposition maintains was fraudulent.

PARIS Former prime minister Alain Juppe remains front-runner to win the center-right's nomination for France's 2017 presidential election in spite of losing some ground, a poll said on Friday.
The Odoxa poll for France Info radio station said Juppe was seen winning 36 percent of votes in the first round of primaries on Nov. 20, although this was seven percentage points down on a month ago.
Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy was in second place with 26 percent, a score that was unchanged from a month ago, while the score for Francois Fillon, another former prime minister, increased by nine percentage points to 20 percent.
The top two from this first round of voting go through to a second round, unless one of the candidates gets more than 50 percent in the first.
In the second round, the Odoxa poll sees Juppe winning with 58 percent versus an expected 42 percent for Sarkozy - although Juppe's second-round score was again down seven percentage points from last month.
The winner of the primaries has a good chance of prevailing in the presidential election due in April and May 2017, given Socialist President Francois Hollande's unpopularity and divisions among left-wing candidates.
Polls suggest far-right leader Marine Le Pen will make the second round run-off, and Donald Trump's shock victory in the U.S. presidential election has led prominent French politicians to warn she could win unless her mainstream rivals get their act together.

CAIRO Egypt imposed a big security clampdown in its cities on Friday as mass demonstrations called to protest against austerity measures failed to take place.
Riot police and armored vehicles filled the otherwise empty streets of central Cairo, but most people stayed at home.
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has urged Egyptians not to protest and warned that there would be no going back on economic reforms, no matter how much pain they might cause.
In a boost for the government, the International Monetary Fund's executive board approved a three-year, $12 billion loan to Egypt aimed at supporting the reforms, and the central bank said it received a first tranche of $2.75 billion.
A little-known group calling itself Movement of the Poor had called for Egyptians to protest on Nov. 11 against deepening austerity measures the government says are required to save the Arab world's most populous nation from financial ruin.
But big protests failed to materialize across the country by 8:30 p.m (1830 GMT). Police dispersed several small gatherings and there were some minor clashes. No one was killed or injured.
"The Egyptian people chose stability and development and rejected any calls against that," state television quoted Prime Minister Sherif Ismail as saying.
The calls to protest began in August, but gained traction on social media last week after Egypt raised fuel prices and floated its currency - a move welcomed by bankers but condemned by ordinary people as the latest blow to their diminishing spending power.
The usually busy Tahrir Square was deserted except for armored vehicles with tear-gas launchers and dozens of riot police. Authorities shut down the Sadat metro station to prevent potential demonstrators reaching the square, which has in the past been a center of political protest.
"I don't think anything will happen but this security presence scares people and ensures nothing does," said Shenouda Ishak, a driver in the Cairo district of Shubra.

"SCARES PEOPLE"
There was a heavy security presence in other areas of Cairo, and other cities including Alexandria, Suez, and Minya.
The protests won little support from prominent activist and opposition groups, though they have been backed by the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood.
But in a country where street politics helped to unseat two presidents within two years, authorities were keen to deter protesters. Dozens of people were detained in recent weeks, accused of inciting unrest.
Protesters camped in Tahrir Square in an 18-day demonstration that ended Hosni Mubarak's 30-year rule in 2011. When Egyptians took to the streets in mid-2013 to end a year of Brotherhood rule, general-turned-president Sisi intervened.
Security sources said police chased dozens of protesters away from Arbaeen Square in Suez, near the place where the first protester was killed in 2011. Protesters on Friday chanted against high prices.
In the coastal province of Beheira, police fired tear gas at protesters who threw rocks back. Security sources said 98 suspected Brotherhood supporters were arrested in three cities in Beheira, 14 in Alexandria, and 10 in Suez.
Muslim Brotherhood activists held a limited protest in the hometown of former President Mohamed Mursi but did not clash with police.

SISI CRUSHED DISSENT
Many ordinary Egyptians and activists believe the heyday of street politics is over. After taking power, Sisi crushed dissent and has applied a protest law so strictly that few dare to come out, despite rising public anger.
State media reported police surrounded the entrances of Cairo and other cities to ensure that members of the Muslim Brotherhood did not enter.
The interior ministry said on Thursday that it confiscated a cache of arms and ammunition hidden in a graveyard and house by the Brotherhood in Fayoum province, southwest of Cairo.
The ministry also said it raided five bomb factories around the country on Wednesday, accusing a militant group of coordinating with the Muslim Brotherhood to attack police checkpoints on the eve of the protests.
Stung by street revolts that have made life worse rather than better, many people said they would stay at home.
Reuters spoke to five activists who all said protests would achieve little and feared violence if they did materialize.
"The revolutionary bloc is reticent to protest. We now know that any street action leads to bloodshed. There is no result we can achieve with this regime," said Malek Adly, a human rights lawyer with the Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social Rights.
Sisi came to power promising economic reform and stability but problems have piled up. With a budget deficit of 12 percent and a looming funding gap, Egypt reached a preliminary deal with the IMF for the $12 billion loan in August this year.

TAX RISES, FOOD PRICES BITE HARD
Yet Egyptians feel hit by tax rises, soaring food price inflation and cuts in state subsidies.
Core inflation is almost at eight-year-highs, over 15 percent, as a foreign exchange shortage and a rise in customs duties bite hard in a country that imports everything from sugar to luxury cars.
Egypt raised electricity prices by 25 to 40 percent and introduced a 13 percent value-added tax in August.
The government has tried to win public support for the austerity measures with a billboard campaign and media blitz and also sought to expand social security schemes to shield the poorest from the effects of the rising prices.
But many Egyptians who would not qualify for such schemes complain they can no longer afford meat, while sugar shortages have driven fears of an impending food crisis.
In his speeches, Sisi has sought to persuade Egyptians that a collective sacrifice is necessary to save the country from financial ruin.
But he also warned that the army could be deployed across the country within six hours in the event of street unrest.

BEIRUT Syrian government troops and their allies advanced on Friday in a district of western Aleppo captured last month by rebels, a Syrian military source and an insurgent official said.
The Syrian military source said the pro-government forces had completely retaken the al-Minian district and had advanced in the neighboring Dahiyet al-Assad district, both on the western edge of Aleppo.
However, Zakaria Malahifji, a Turkish-based official with the Fastaqim rebel group fighting in Aleppo, said that while the army had advanced in al-Minian, it had not gained complete control over the area.
He added that the army had taken three positions in Dahiyet al-Assad but that battles were under way to regain them.
Each side claimed to have inflicted heavy casualties on the other.
Aleppo has become the most intense front in the civil war pitting President Bashar al-Assad, helped by Iran, Shi'ite militias and Russian air power, against Sunni rebels backed by Turkey, the United States and Gulf monarchies.
The city has for years been divided into a government-held western zone and a rebel-held eastern sector which has been besieged since the summer by the army and its allies.
They began a major offensive to retake the eastern districts in late September and a rebel counter-attack was launched by insurgents based in the countryside west of the city in late October.
This week the army captured the 1070 Apartment Blocks district in southwest Aleppo, a focal point of fighting for months and important because of its position alongside a corridor used by the government into the city's western zone.

STOCKHOLM Iceland's Independence Party said on Friday its leader, Bjarni Benediktsson, has begun discussions with the Reform Party and the Bright Future party about forming a new government.
The Independence Party won 21 seats in last month's general election, making it the largest party. The Reform Party - which was founded earlier this year - won seven seats and the Bright Future four, giving the three parties a bare majority in the 63-seat house.
"This afternoon Bjarni went to meet the President and informed him that on the basis of conversations with leaders of the Reform Party and Bright Future they have today decided to formally begin discussions about forming a government," the Independence Party said in a statement.
The Independence Party was a junior member of the former government and has been part of every government between 1980 and 2009 and again from 2013.
It presided over the privatization of banks, the liberalization of the financial sector and its demise, and the country's eventual economic recovery from its 2008 crisis.

MAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan/BERLIN Taliban militants stormed the German consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif, ramming its outer wall with a truck bomb before battling security forces in an overnight attack that killed at least four people, officials said.
The explosion caused extensive damage to the building, a NATO spokesman said, but Germany indicated on Friday this would not deter it from continuing its work as part of the international mission in Afghanistan.
Triggered by a suicide bomber, the blast shattered windows as far as 5 km (3 miles) away, NATO said. A local doctor said it and the subsequent firefight also wounded 120 people.
Twenty consular staff survived the attack with no injuries, German officials said.
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said soldiers had had to battle hard to repel the heavily armed attackers.
"It was only possible to ... beat them back after fighting that occurred at the compound and in the building," he said, adding that Berlin would review its lead role in northern Afghanistan.
His spokesman Martin Schaefer later said he did not expect a big policy shift.
"I cannot imagine that the events of last night will lead to a fundamental change in Germany's thinking or that of the global community on the need for continued assistance for Afghanistan," Schaefer told reporters.
The attack also highlights one of the tougher policy challenges facing U.S. President-elect Donald Trump when he takes office in January.
U.S. combat operations against the Taliban largely ended in 2014, but thousands of its soldiers remain in Afghanistan as part of the NATO-led Resolute Support mission.
The Taliban said the attack was in retaliation for NATO air strikes against a village near the northern city of Kunduz last week in which more than 30 people, many of them children, were killed.
Heavily armed fighters, including suicide bombers, had been sent "with a mission to destroy the German consulate general and kill whoever they found there", the Islamist militant movement's spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said by telephone.
Taliban forces came close to over-running Kunduz last month, a year after briefly capturing it in their biggest success in Afghanistan's 15-year-long war.

INTO THE EARLY HOURS
The NATO spokesman said at least one vehicle packed with explosives was rammed into the high outer wall surrounding the consulate, but authorities were investigating if a second car had been involved.
"The extent of damage to the city is huge," said Abdul Razaq Qaderi, deputy police chief of Balkh province. "This kind of an attack, bringing a truck full of explosives and blowing it up in the city, had never happened before.
Noor Mohammad Faiz, the head doctor in Mazar-i-Sharif hospital, said four bodies and 120 wounded, most hurt by flying glass, had been brought to the hospital.
Qaderi said German troops later shot and killed two men on motorcycles who did not comply with orders to stop, with a third man seriously injured. German Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen said that incident was being investigated.
It was not clear if the men were attackers or civilians.
Germany, which heads Resolute Support in northern Afghanistan, has about 800 soldiers at a base on the outskirts of Mazar-i-Sharif, with another 1,000 troops coming from 20 partner countries.
The explosion occurred about an hour before midnight local time, a spokesman for the German military joint forces command in Potsdam said.
"It was a prepared attack for which we made all arrangements," the Taliban's Mujahid said, adding that dozens of German soldiers and intelligence personnel were killed in the attack.
The Taliban often exaggerate casualties caused by its operations.
Sayed Kamal Sadat, police chief of Balkh province, said the fighting was over by the early hours of the morning after Afghan special forces, German security personnel and NATO's quick reaction protection force intervened.
At least one suspect was arrested from the area of explosion, officials said.
The heavily protected consulate is in a large building close to the Blue Mosque in the center of Mazar-i-Sharif, where the Indian consulate was also attacked by militant gunmen earlier this year.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - More than 300,000 people face eviction and could be left homeless as prime waterfront land in Nigeria's biggest city, Lagos, is cleared of shanty towns to make way for luxury redevelopment, campaigners said on Friday.
State-ordered demolitions and fighting between rival communities this week forced thousands of residents of Otodo Gbame slum to take to boats on the Lagos Lagoon and left an estimated 30,000 residents without shelter.
According to the Nigerian Slum and Informal Settlement Federation (NSISF), a network of activists working in Nigerian slum communities, some 300,000 people face eviction, many of whom have lived on the shores of the lake for more than a century.
Hundreds of residents spent last night sleeping in wooden canoes on the water with nowhere else to go, Andrew Maki, co-director of Lagos-based legal campaign group Justice and Empowerment Initiatives (JEI) said by phone.
"With over 30,000 residents of Otodo Gbame already homeless there is presently a humanitarian disaster in Lagos," he said. "It is almost unthinkable to calculate the implications of that number growing tenfold to 300,000. Where would they sleep? Who will feed them?"
Speaking by mobile phone, people on boats told Thomson Reuters Foundation they were surviving on food and clean water brought to them by other waterfront communities.
London-based Amnesty International on Friday called on Nigeria to shelve plans to demolish more illegal settlements in the megacity of 23 million, and said officials needed to provide alternative accommodation for residents.
The Governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode, announced the "demolition of all the shanties" around the creeks and waterways of Lagos State on Oct 9, citing public health and safety concerns.
Despite a High Court order to stop evictions issued on Nov. 7, more than 40 slum communities who live on Lagos Lagoon now face eviction, said Maki.
"This forced eviction makes abundantly clear that Governor Ambode's threat to demolish all waterfront communities across Lagos State is very real," he said.
A spokeswoman for Lagos police told Reuters on Thursday officers had arrested several people for setting fires but denied claims by JEI that the police had destroyed buildings.

'POOREST OF THE POOR'
Residents of the Otodo Gbame community, primarily fishermen who belong to the linguistic minority, the Egun, used mobile phones to film fires and said police had also used tear gas to drive them toward the water.
"They are the poorest of the poor... their land is in one of the richest areas of the city. It is wanted for redevelopment and will be walled off," Maki said.
JEI said it had interviewed more than two dozen eyewitness who said police set fire to houses to force residents out early on Thursday morning. Bulldozers were filmed pulling down makeshift homes.
The Thomson Reuters Foundation was unable to reach the governor's office or Lagos police by phone or email.
Maki said bulldozers had arrived at a much smaller community neighbouring Otodo Gbame, known as "Ikate back gate" on Friday morning and residents had been told by police that they had three hours to vacate their homes before demolition began.
He said this indicated that the demolition of Otodo Gbame may be part of a broader "slum clearing" effort.
In recent years, the area around Otodo Gbame, known as Lekki, has attracted investors who have built waterside apartments and commercial districts, pushing out fishing communities, according to a statement by JEI.
The high court order restrained demolition of "any of the applicants' homes, business premises, properties of community facilities in waterfront communities across Lagos State ..."
It followed Governor Ambode's statement that the evictions were necessary for "security" reasons - citing a kidnapping from a nearby private school.
Ambode identified the shanty-towns as "hideouts" for the suspected kidnappers and the demolitions as necessary for "the safety of our children and all Lagosians".
The state's Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Steve Ayorinde, said the demolition formed part of the government's policy of "removal of environmental infractions and nuisances across the state".

"LAW-ABIDING, HARD-WORKING URBAN POOR"
In a statement last month, NSISF rejected the government's characterization of the waterfront communities as "the abode of miscreants/street-urchins, kidnappers, touts, street traders and hawkers".
NSISF said residents are law-abiding, hard-working urban poor, most of whom are fishermen and women engaged in fish smoking and fish selling.
"We contribute meaningfully to the economy of Lagos; indeed, the urban poor are the engine of the economy. We pay taxes, levies, rates and charges to the local and state governments," it added.
The clearing of waterfront slums in Lagos comes just weeks after 193 countries agreed the New Urban Agenda at a U.N. summit in Quito, Ecuador, a policy document that aims to guide the growth of cities in the 21st century as well as enshrine humanitarian rights for the urban poor.
By 2050, Nigeria's population is set to more than double to 400 million, making it the world's third most populous nation after China and India, according to U.N. estimates.

VIENNA The independent candidate in Austria's tight presidential run-off plans to use the far right's support for Donald Trump as a weapon against it to ensure the U.S. election outcome will not help his opponent as many suspect.
Former Greens leader Alexander Van der Bellen narrowly won a run-off in May against the anti-immigration Freedom Party's Norbert Hofer, but the result was overturned in July. The re-run is due to be held on Dec. 4.
Events since the original run-off, including Britain's vote to exit the European Union, appear to have had little effect on the race for Austria's largely ceremonial presidency, with polls giving a slight edge to Hofer but within the margin of error.
But Trump's victory on Tuesday, on top of Brexit, has raised the prospect of a right-wing populist wave sweeping the West.
A survey in Austria by pollster Market conducted on Tuesday found 58 percent of respondents believe Trump's victory would boost Hofer's chances of winning, with only 14 percent saying it would lift Van der Bellen.
"It is, I think, a mistake to change strategy in a short-term panic," Van der Bellen, a softly spoken, 72-year-old former economics professor, told Reuters in an interview on Friday. "You can refine and change tactics, but not the broad line."
Asked what tactical changes he had in mind, he said: "Point out slightly more directly what it means if you support Donald Trump in such a fervent manner. Does it mean you also support what he (promised) during the campaign? Does it mean you are against health insurance in Austria? Does it mean you want to wall off the borders whatever the cost?"
The Freedom Party (FPO), which like Trump has capitalized on grassroots fears about unemployment and immigration as well as anger at the political establishment, congratulated Trump on his victory. But it has been less enthusiastic in its support for him than some of its European allies, such as the far-right National Front in France.
Van der Bellen is also seeking to capitalize on Hofer's U-turn on Britain's Brexit vote - Hofer initially said Austria could hold its own referendum on leaving the EU within a year, but now no longer wants one.
"Mr Hofer is constantly changing his strategy," Van der Bellen said, and was likely to dissolve parliament to bring about a snap election that polls suggest his party would win.

NO SUPERMAN
Van der Bellen has also said that a Hofer victory would lead to the FPO taking control of government, but he stopped short on Friday of saying he would use the president's influence in forming coalitions to block the FPO entirely.
"I would in any case like for a pro-European government to lead the country after the election. Whether I can have my way is another question, but that is my goal," he said.
It was not clear what effect Trump's victory would have in Austria, a country with less income disparity and a stronger welfare state than Britain or the United States, he said.
"We just saw how much opinion polls are worth during Trump's election," he said, referring to the stunning upset victory. "That alone does not unsettle me. Rather I would say that we just don't know (what effect it will have)."
The chain-smoking former economist added that while he understood some of the public anger fuelling support for his 45-year-old opponent, he was only willing to go so far in promising to make things better.
"I am not saying I am Superman. That goes against who I am and I worked in academia too long to speak so boastfully. But I dare say that it would be better for Austria's economy if I were elected than Mr Hofer," he said.

WASHINGTON After years of rising U.S.-Russia tensions over Ukraine, Syria, cyber attacks and nuclear arms control, Donald Trump's election as U.S. president may offer a narrow window to repair relations as he and Russian President Vladimir Putin size up each other.
But Trump's ascent to the White House carries the risk of  dangerous miscalculation if the U.S. president-elect and Putin, two willful personalities and self-styled strong leaders who have exchanged occasional compliments, decide they have misjudged one another, according to Russia experts and others.
U.S. officials and private analysts predict that Putin, who has reasserted Moscow's military and political muscle from eastern Europe to the Middle East, will avoid openly provoking Trump before he takes office.
"Putin has the ability to advance his interests in many different ways. Sometimes tactical diplomacy can help," said Fiona Hill, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think-tank.
"We're in temporary truce phase," said Hill, who has served as the U.S. national intelligence officer for Russia and Eurasia in the George W. Bush and Obama administrations and co-authored a book on Putin.
Michael McFaul, a former U.S. ambassador to Moscow under President Barack Obama, said Putin likely will wait to see if he can reach some accommodation with Trump to allow the lifting of Ukraine-related sanctions imposed by Washington and the European Union that have contributed to Russia’s growing economic woes.
During the campaign, Trump was criticized by his Democratic Party rival, Hillary Clinton, for praising Putin as a strong leader and saying ties with Russia should be improved at a time when Moscow and Washington are at odds over Syria and Ukraine.
Trump rattled Washington's European allies with comments questioning NATO's mutual self-defense pledge and suggesting that he might recognize Russia's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region.
Putin last year called Trump "a really brilliant and talented person" and the Kremlin said on Thursday that the U.S. president-elect's foreign policy approach was "phenomenally close" to that of the Russian leader.
Putin "has a future president who has expressed a desire to cooperate, who has expressed a desire to move away from the Obama policies. Why would you screw that up with a provocation?" asked McFaul, now at Stanford University.
In Syria, a U.S. official said, Putin appears to be extending a "humanitarian" pause in air strikes against moderate rebels holding the eastern side of Aleppo to give Trump an opportunity to affirm the willingness he expressed during the campaign to seek a more cooperative U.S.-Russian relationship.
"I think they were holding their fire for the purpose of decreasing the international pressure on them, and now, like the rest of the world, they may be taking stock of the current situation," said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
But U.S. officials caution that Russia still may feel compelled to launch more attacks after dispatching a naval task force led by the aging aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov to the eastern Mediterranean in a show of force.

CONFLICT IN CYBERSPACE
The U.S. government has publicly accused Moscow of hacking the Democratic National Committee and other party organizations during the election campaign, which Russia has denied. Trump declined to blame Russia, and the Election Day Russian cyber attacks that some officials feared never materialized.
Trump has not laid out a detailed Russia policy, and many in his party, including potential top advisors and cabinet officials, have taken a hawkish view of Moscow.
Former House of Representatives speaker Newt Gingrich, a Trump ally rumored for a senior post, lambasted in 2014 what he called Obama's weak response to Russia's land-grab in Ukraine. Putin, Gingrich wrote, is "a ruthlessly determined leader motivated by nationalism and an imperial drive."
And while there was celebration in Moscow after Trump's victory over former secretary of state Clinton, who has been sharply critical of Putin, some Russians cautioned against euphoria.
"The idea that it will be easier to strike a deal with Trump than Clinton is wrong. ... Everything will be tested when we get down to business," analyst Vladimir Bruter told the daily pro-Kremlin tabloid Komsomolskaya Pravda before Tuesday's election.
Some experts and U.S. officials say there is a high risk of miscalculation or even confrontation, given Trump's history of  taking slights and challenges personally.
"That's actually where reality is going to intrude," Hill said. "Putin's pretty thin-skinned, too."
Putin has a penchant for challenging adversaries, particularly when he senses weakness, and he has long made it clear that he intends to reassert what he considers Russia's rightful global role.
Suspending a treaty with Washington on cleaning up weapons-grade plutonium last month, Putin listed conditions for resuming Russian participation that amounted to a laundry list of grievances against the United States.
The demands included lifting Ukraine-related U.S. economic sanctions, compensating Moscow for those sanctions and reducing the U.S. military presence in NATO's eastern European states to the levels of 16 years ago.
Russia's bedrock concern "is whether they believe the threat of U.S.-promoted regime change is abating under a President Trump," said Andrew Weiss, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "Everything else is a secondary, lower-order problem."
Putin has accused the U.S. government of promoting widespread street protests in Russia following its 2011 elections, as well as the "color revolutions" in Georgia, Ukraine and elsewhere.
On specific issues, Weiss said, there are few if any easy opportunities for rapid U.S.-Russian agreements.
"The agenda's really threadbare," he said. "We're basically at a standstill."
(This version of the story fixes a typo in paragraph two)

BELGRADE British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, setting aside his previous hostility toward Donald Trump, said on Thursday the U.S. Republican's presidential election victory offered economic opportunities and there was no need for Europeans to be despondent about it.
"I may respectfully say to my European friends and colleagues that it's time we snapped out of general doom and gloom about this election," Johnson said after meeting Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic.
"He is after all a deal maker. He wants to do a free trade deal with the UK," Johnson told reporters.
Trump's upset victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton has delighted far-right politicians in France, the Netherlands and Austria but worried some mainstream politicians who fear it may be part of a populist, anti-establishment trend.
"I believe that this is a great opportunity for us in the UK to build on that relationship with America that is of fundamental economic importance for us but also of great importance for stability and prosperity in the world," Johnson said.
Johnson was one of the leading proponents of the successful Brexit campaign to get Britain out of the European Union. Trump aligned himself with the Brexit movement during his campaign.
On Wednesday, Johnson, the former London mayor, congratulated Trump on his victory and tweeted that he looked forward to continuing the partnership between the two nations.
Johnson said last year that he feared going to New York because of "the real risk of meeting Donald Trump" after the New York businessman said parts of London were now so radicalized that police officers feared to go there.
Later on Thursday, Johnson said on his Twitter account he had spoken to U.S. Vice President-elect Mike Pence.
"We agreed on importance of the special relationship & need to tackle global challenges together," he tweeted.


LAGOS Amnesty International called on Nigeria to shelve plans to demolish more illegal settlements in the megacity Lagos as several hundreds of thousands of people could be made homeless, it said on Friday.
Some 30,000 residents of a waterside slum in the commercial capital, a city of 23 million, lost their traditional homes this week after state-ordered demolition and fighting between rival communities, residents said.
The London-based rights group said officials needed to provide alternative accommodation for residents and investigate why police and a Lagos agency had destroyed their housing despite a court ban until there had been a hearing.
"The authorities involved in this destruction are in flagrant violation of the law," it said in a statement.
It called on Lagos state to stop any mass evictions after announcing plans last month to remove all illegal waterside communities until rules were in place to follow international law.
Police have denied claims by Lagos-based Justice and Empowerment Initiatives (JEI) that it had destroyed any buildings this week. It also denied it had a role in the reported drowning of four people which the rights group said had run into water after officers had opened fire.
Lagos officials could not be reached for comment.
The violence highlights the challenges of a rapidly rising population unable to provide enough jobs and housing for its 180 million people. Many end up trying to migrate to Europe by boat from lawless Libya.
Rights groups such as JEI say Lagos carries out demolitions to remove poor from attractive buildings sites -- Lekki island, the site of this week's demolitions, is a prime site for real estate developers, who have been building luxury apartments and skyscrapers.
Officials have tried to attract more investment into Africa's largest economy struggling with recession due to slump in oil prices.
The overcrowding in Lagos looks likely to continue. By 2050, Nigeria's population is set to more than double to 400 million, making it the world's third most populous nation after China and India, according to U.N. estimates.

JOHANNESBURG The head of South Africa's state power utility announced on Friday he would step down, a week after he was implicated in a report by the anti-graft watchdog on alleged influence-peddling.
"I would like to reiterate that this act is not an admission of wrongdoing on my part," Brian Molefe, chief executive of Eskom, said in a statement.
"It is rather what I feel to be the correct thing to do in the interests of the company and good corporate governance." He said he would leave the post in January.
The report by the Public Protector, a constitutionally mandated watchdog, raised questions over coal deals between Eskom and a company controlled by the Gupta family, who are friends with President Jacob Zuma.
Molefe has been with Eskom since April last year, when he was drafted in from state rail freight firm Transnet to try to stabilize the troubled utility, which at the time was battling to keep the lights on in Africa's most industrialized economy.
He was confirmed as CEO in September last year and is widely credited with halting the power cuts.
He leaves the company in the middle of the crucial construction of three new coal-fired power stations. Eskom is also considering a building a second nuclear power plant.
"First head to roll. Put simply he had no credibility left after the report," said Peter Attard Montalto, Nomura International's head of emerging markets, in a note.
Eskom's 2026 bond weakened on the news, with the yield rising 10 basis points.

"UNWARRANTED ATTACKS"
Public Enterprises Minister Lynn Brown was "sad" to lose Molefe, spokesman Colin Cruywagen said, while Eskom's Chairman Baldwin Ngubane said the resignation was "regrettable".
The watchdog's report showed 58 telephone interactions between Molefe and Ajay Gupta between August 2015 and March this year. It stopped short of saying crimes had been committed, and called for an inquiry to investigate allegations of corruption in Zuma's government.
Zuma denies granting undue influence to the three Indian-born Gupta brothers, who run a business empire ranging from media to mining, or to anyone else. The Guptas have denied seeking influence.
Separately, the president's office said it was concerned about "unwarranted public attacks" on Zuma by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela, a day after Madonsela defended the release of an audio recording of her meeting with the president during her investigation.
Zuma, 74, survived a no-confidence vote in parliament on Thursday. He has defeated two other votes to unseat him this year, backed by the support of his African National Congress which controls about two-thirds of the 400-member assembly.

BRUSSELS European Union foreign ministers will on Monday consider shelving membership talks with Turkey over what they see as its disturbing lurch away from democracy after a botched coup there, though there is no consensus for such a tough step yet.
Despite EU alarm at the scale of Ankara's post-coup security crackdown, EU diplomats say they must keep talking to President Tayyip Erdogan to retain his crucial help in curbing migration to Europe and fighting Islamist militants in the Middle East.
But the fact that Austria, Luxembourg and some European lawmakers now openly call for suspending the Turkey talks marks a sea change in tone just eight months after the bloc promised Ankara the process would be sped up in exchange for its collaboration in reducing migration from its territory.
"Suspending membership talks with Turkey is not formally on the agenda but we expect some ministers to bring this up," one EU official said of the 28 foreign ministers' meeting scheduled in Brussels on Monday.
"It is true some deeply troubling things are happening in Turkey. But you have to ask yourself the question what exactly would we achieve by suspending the process now? How would that help? We need to keep communication channels open."
An EU report this week accused Turkey of backsliding on its road to membership since the July coup attempt, since which Ankara has suspended, dismissed or arrested over 110,000 people including soldiers, judges, teachers, journalists and Kurdish leaders over alleged support of the putsch.
The EU's top enlargement official said Turkey's EU candidacy was now hanging in the balance.
"This is something that could happen," one diplomat in Brussels said. "But not just yet, definitely not until EU leaders meet in December."
Berlin, as well as several other EU capitals, have so far poured cold water on talk of aborting Turkey membership talks.

"COOL HEADS" NEEDED
"Yes, we have to be critical about developments in Turkey. But we also have to be cool-headed about it and not just jump in and get too much involved in criticizing Turkey's domestic affairs," another diplomat said.
"There is Turkey's role in the region. But if we push too far we also risk being back to where we were last year on migration and it was tearing us apart."
An EU-Turkey deal reached in March has cut to a trickle the number of refugees and migrants reaching Europe via Greece from Turkish shores after more than a million arrivals last year.
It has been sharply criticized by rights groups for undercutting international humanitarian standards. But it has also given breathing space to EU leaders under increasing popular pressure at home for failing to control the influx and embroiled in rows among themselves over how to handle it.
Turkey has told the EU it will have to "live with the consequences" if it halts membership talks.
Ankara's EU membership has always been a long shot. Growing public unease about immigration and Islam in Europe, together with the post-coup clampdown in Turkey, make a Turkish entry into the EU even less likely in the forseeable future.
Turkey has set its sights on getting visa-free travel for its citizens to the EU by the end of the year in return for making sure migrants do not leave its shores for Europe. That prospect, however, is also looking increasingly dim.
Turkey reinstating death penalty would mark crossing a red line for EU leaders. "If Turkey pushes through death penalty legislation, then the halt of the accession process will be automatic," a senior EU diplomat said.

BERLIN Germany urged other developed countries on Friday to support a plan it is finalising to bolster the economies of Africa, create jobs and slow the flow of migrants from the continent to Europe.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and her officials, anxious to stop growing numbers of migrants risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean Sea, are pushing for increased public and private investment in Africa.
Development Minister Gerd Mueller said Germany would in coming weeks release details of what he called a new "Marshall Plan with Africa" - drawing a direct parallel with the huge U.S. investment programme that kick-started the ravaged German economy after World War Two.
"We have to invest in these countries and give people perspectives for the future," he told a news conference.
"If the youth of Africa can't find work or a future in their own countries, it won't be hundreds of thousands, but millions that make their way to Europe."
The International Organization for Migration last week said nearly 160,000 people had crossed the Mediterranean from Africa to Italy this year, while 4,220 had died trying.
Mueller noted that in addition to the migrants already looking to come to Europe, there were about 20 million displaced people in Africa.
He said these issues needed to be recognised by the international community, and Africa should have representation on the U.N. Security Council.
Mueller said his plan was aimed at developing joint solutions with African countries, with a big focus on programmes for youth, education and training and on strengthening economies and the rule of law.
Merkel raised similar issues during a visit to Africa last month, and during a meeting of the G20 industrialised countries in China.
Mueller said a significant share of his ministry's proposed budget increase of over 1 billion euros for 2017 would be earmarked for projects in Africa.
Germany this week pledged a 61-million-euro ($67 million) hike in funding for U.N. relief operations in Africa.


TOKYO Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday praised the "growing convergence" of views between his nation and Japan, saying strong ties will enable them to play a stabilizing role in Asia.
Modi is in Japan to sign a landmark nuclear energy pact and strengthen ties as China's regional influence grows and Donald Trump's election has thrown U.S. policies across Asia into doubt.
India, Japan and the United States have been building security ties by holding three-way naval exercises, but Trump's "America First" campaign promise has stirred concern about a reduced U.S. engagement in the region - an approach that could draw Modi and Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe closer.
Modi told Japanese business leaders that the 21st century is Asia's century, urging them to invest in India.
"The growing convergence of views between Japan and India and our special strategic and global partnership have the capacity to drive the regional economy and development, and stimulate global growth," he said.
"Strong India and strong Japan will not only enrich our two nations, it will also be a stabilizing factor in Asia and the world."
The nuclear agreement, which Modi and Abe are set to sign later in the day, follows a similar one with the United States in 2008 which gave India access to nuclear technology after decades of isolation, a step seen as the first big move to build India into a regional counterweight to China.
The Yomiuri newspaper said the main accord will likely be accompanied by a separate document stipulating that Japan, the only country to have suffered a nuclear attack, will suspend nuclear cooperation if India conducts a nuclear test. Initially, Japan wanted that inserted into the agreement itself, but India resisted, it said.
India has declared a moratorium on such testing since its last explosions in 1998.
The two countries have also been trying to close a deal on the supply of amphibious rescue aircraft US-2 to the Indian navy, which would be one of Japan's first sales of military equipment since Abe lifted a 50-year ban on arms exports.
India's Defence Acquisitions Council met earlier this week to consider the purchase of 12 of the planes made by ShinMaywa Industries, but failed to reach a decision.

TOKYO Japan and India signed a civilian nuclear accord on Friday, opening the door for Tokyo to supply New Delhi with fuel, equipment and technology for nuclear power production, as India looks to atomic energy to sustain its rapid economic growth.
It was the first time Japan, the only country to have suffered a nuclear attack, had concluded such a pact with a country that is not a signatory to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT).
"Today's signing ... marks a historic step in our engagement to build a clean energy partnership," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a joint news conference with his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe.
The accord stipulates that the nuclear fuel and equipment provided can only be used for peaceful purposes, and a separate document signed in parallel has a clause allowing Japan to terminate the pact if India conducts a nuclear test.
"As a sole nation to have been nuclear-bombed, we bear the responsibility for leading the international community towards the realization of a world without nuclear weapons," Abe told the same news conference.
"The agreement is a legal framework to ensure that India will act responsibly for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. It will also lead us to having India participate practically in the international non-proliferation regime."
India says the NPT is discriminatory and that it has concerns about its two nuclear-armed neighbors, China and Pakistan.
India is already in advanced negotiations to have U.S.-based Westinghouse Electric, owned by Japan's Toshiba Corp, build six nuclear reactors in southern India, part of New Delhi's plan to ramp up nuclear capacity more than 10 times by 2032.
Japanese nuclear plant makers such as Toshiba and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd are desperate to expand their business overseas as the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster chilled domestic demand for new nuclear plants.
The agreement with Japan follows a similar one with the United States in 2008, which gave India access to nuclear technology after decades of isolation.
That step was seen as the first big move to build India into a regional counterweight to China.
On India's infrastructure development, Abe said that construction of a high-speed railway connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad, which will be based on Japan's "Shinkansen" bullet train technology, was scheduled to start in 2018, with commercial operation slated for 2023.
"In Japan, the era of high economic growth began when Shinkansen started its service in 1964. I hope the advent of high-speed railway will trigger fresh economic growth in India as well," Abe said.
Modi earlier on Friday praised the "growing convergence" of views between his nation and Japan, saying strong ties would enable them to play a stabilizing role in Asia and the world.

DIYARBAKIR, Turkey A district governor has died after a bomb attack on his office in the largely Kurdish southeast of Turkey and police have detained 30 people in the investigation, security sources said on Friday.
The YPS, a youth wing of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), claimed responsibility for Thursday's attack in Mardin, according to the ANF news agency, which is close to the militant group.
Derik district governor Muhammed Fatih Safiturk was one of three people hurt in the attack, suffering second-degree burns. He died in hospital in the city of Gaziantep on Friday, having been flown there by helicopter, the Dogan news agency said.
Around 30 people, including staff from the governor's office, have been detained in connection with the attack, security sources said.
Police were looking into the possibility that explosives were hidden in a bag placed in the governor's office and detonated remotely, or were sent in a package to the office and exploded on being opened, Dogan said.
Safiturk had been given the additional responsibility in July of running the local municipality as part of moves to replace elected officials from a sister party of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).
A report by the HDP on Wednesday said that more than 3 million people were under the leadership of such government-appointed trustees in around 30 municipalities.
Ankara accuses the HDP, parliament's third-biggest party, of ties to the PKK, which is fighting for autonomy in the southeast. The HDP denies any direct links and says it is working for a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
The PKK often carries out bomb and rocket attacks in the southeast, where violence has raged since a two-year-old PKK ceasefire collapsed in July last year.
Fourteen PKK militants were found dead after an air-backed Turkish military operation against them in the eastern province of Tunceli, state-run Anadolu news agency reported on Friday.
More than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict since the PKK took up arms in 1984. It is considered a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.
The leaders of the HDP were jailed this month pending trial over alleged ties to the PKK, drawing strong international condemnation of the widening crackdown on dissent under President Tayyip Erdogan.
More than 36,000 people have been jailed pending trial and around 110,000 suspended or dismissed from their jobs since an attempted coup on July 15 which Ankara blames on U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen and his supporters.
Pro-Kurdish politicians have been targeted in the crackdown, with 6,000 HDP members detained since the putsch, HDP spokesman Ayhan Bilgen told a news conference on Thursday. Some 2,000 of them have been remanded in custody, he said.
Six advisers of leading HDP officials were among the latest detainees on Friday, security sources said.

KIEV Ukrainian authorities are laying the groundwork for President Petro Poroshenko to visit Washington early next year, hoping to shore up U.S. support against Russia and allay concerns about what a Donald Trump presidency means for Kiev.
Ukraine has relied on Western support and economic aid since street protests in 2014 which toppled a Kremlin-backed president and were followed by a war with pro-Russian separatists and  Russia's annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine.
Some of Trump's campaign comments, from appearing to recognize Crimea as part of Russia to contemplating an end to U.S. sanctions on Russia, stoked fears in Kiev that Trump will mend ties with Moscow at Ukraine's expense.
Kiev is already wary of losing the backing of the European Union over the bloc's own sanctions, imposed on Russia over its seizure of Crimea and support for the separatists fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine.
EU diplomats say the bloc is likely to approve a six-month extension of the sanctions at a summit in December but that it may find it harder to renew them again after Trump is inaugurated in January.
Ukrainian officials, however, say that whatever he said on the stump, they believe Trump will not change U.S. policy on Russia and Ukraine.
"We are confident that the new U.S. administration will continue to work closely with the leadership of Ukraine, providing the assistance that is necessary to counter Russian aggression and carry out internal reforms," Prime Minister Volodymyr Groysman said in a statement to Reuters, echoing similar remarks by Poroshenko.
Trump's victory was cheered in the Russian parliament on Wednesday and raised hopes in Moscow that an easing of the sanctions would give succor to Russia's ailing economy.
The same day, Ukrainian dollar-denominated bonds tumbled in a sign of investors' concern about the potential impact of  Trump's victory. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Trump's foreign policy approach was "phenomenally close" to President Vladimir Putin's.
But Kiev believes bipartisan support for Ukraine in the United States is strong and that the Republican Party, which will control the U.S. Congress, has the backing of a large Ukrainian diaspora which is lobbying for no change in the firm U.S. line on Moscow, a senior Ukrainian official told Reuters.
"The policy of the United States will be consistent," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation.
"It's not only about Trump," he added. "He's not a Tsar, he's not an emperor."

SEEKING REASSURANCE
Despite these comments, Kiev has been seeking assurances of continued U.S. support.
"Mission in NYC done: more than 50 mtgs (meetings), 30 calls in 3 days to support UA (Ukrainian) resolution on human rights in Crimea and Donald Trump Pres-elect," Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin tweeted on Thursday.
He was referring to a resolution submitted to the United Nations condemning what Kiev says is discrimination in Crimea and calling on Russia to halt alleged rights violations there.
Deputy Parliament Speaker Iryna Gerashchenko, who is part of a working group in talks on ending the war in eastern Ukraine that has killed nearly 10,000 people, said neither Republicans nor Democrats had shown a desire to soften sanctions.
"It is also clear for me that a change of administration in the White House will not change the U.S. position," she told Reuters in an interview.
While Ukraine's main objective is ensuring sanctions on Russian remain, Kiev is also hoping Washington will agree to supply it with lethal weapons, the senior Ukrainian official said.
Two contenders to become Trump's Secretary of State, former House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, support such aid. Gingrich met Poroshenko on a visit to Ukraine in September.
"We're preparing the visit of the president of Ukraine to the United States," the senior official said. He did not say how far preparations had progressed.

NEW "FRONT"
Trump's campaign remarks infuriated many Ukrainians and his election triumph was greeted by Ukraine's deputy prime minister as another "front" on which Kiev had to fight. Officials in Kiev fear his victory will embolden Russia.
Trump has praised Putin as a strong leader and his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, helped propel pro-Kremlin Ukrainian leader Viktor Yanukovich to power before he was part of the president-elect's campaign team.
Home Minister Arsen Avakov took to Facebook in July to denounce statements by Trump on Russia's annexation of Crimea, calling them a dangerous indulgence of the "dictator" Putin.
Oleh Lyashko, the head of the opposition Radical party, initially said a Trump presidency would be "disastrous" for Ukraine, though he later qualified that by saying he hoped Trump's overtures to Putin were just "campaign rhetoric".
Nadiya Savchenko, a servicewoman who became a symbol of resistance to Russia after being captured in eastern Ukraine and later freed, wrote an open letter to Trump urging him not to abandon Ukraine, or risk starting a new world war.
Trump "gives preference to Russia and in fact does not recognize Ukraine as a sovereign country," Kiev resident Volodymyr Nazarenko said.
In comments underlining the depth of concern among the population about Trump's election triumph, Nazarenko said: "He will talk to Putin and Ukraine doesn't mean anything to him. This is the most terrifying thing."

MOSCOW The Russian Defence Ministry said on Friday it wanted the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) to urgently send a mission to Aleppo, saying it had evidence Syrian opposition rebels had used chemical weapons there.
The ministry said earlier on Friday it had found evidence that there was a high probability that the rebels had used chlorine gas and white phosphorous on the south-west edge of Aleppo in district 1070.
It said it was basing its information on a study of soil samples, unexploded shells, and shrapnel.
Major-General Igor Konashenkov said Russia would now hand over the evidence to the OPCW and wanted The Hague-based body to urgently send a team to Aleppo to gather its own evidence.
He said Russian forces stood ready to help OPCW experts carry out their work in Aleppo.

STOCKHOLM Sweden will seek assurances from U.S. president-elect Donald Trump that a recently signed defense cooperation agreement will be honored by the new administration and on his commitment to NATO, Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist said.
After years of rising tensions with Russia in the Baltic region, Sweden and the United States signed a declaration of intent in June to increase defense cooperation.
The deal includes joint exercises and adaptation of technologies and practices to a joint NATO-standard.
"He has through his own actions in the election campaign created a long series of question marks," Hultqvist, told Reuters.
"However, we assume that all contracts and agreements that we and other countries have signed with the United States still stand."
During his election campaign Trump threatened to abandon U.S. allies in Europe if they do not spend enough on defense and praised Russian leader Vladimir Putin for his leadership.
Hultqvist said he would seek assurances over Trump's position on NATO, Europe and how he sees the relationship with Russia.
"We will get in contact with the new administration as soon as there is a structure to communicate with," he said.
Late last month Russian media reported that the country is sharply upgrading the firepower of its Baltic fleet by adding warships armed with long-range cruise missiles.
Sweden, which is not a NATO member, mounted its biggest submarine hunt since the Cold War in 2014 when the military said there were several credible sightings of possible Russian vessels.
Neighboring Finland has complained that Russian fighter jets have violated its air space.

YANGON Police on Friday detained the chief executive and the chief editor of Myanmar's largest daily newspaper over a defamation case by a powerful politician following a Facebook posting.
The police detained Than Htut Aung, the flamboyant chief executive of Eleven Media Group and the newspaper's chief editor, Wai Phyo, after Yangon's regional government sued them for defamation over a social media post alleging corruption.
The two have been charged under Myanmar's controversial telecommunication law, which human rights monitors have criticized as being too broadly worded.
The law prohibits use of the telecoms network to "extort, threaten, obstruct, defame, disturb, inappropriately influence or intimidate".
Rights monitors have raised concerns over media freedom in Myanmar after a journalist at an English-language newspaper said she was fired following government criticism of her reporting on a crisis in Myanmar's restive Rakhine state.
The two journalists were summoned to the police station after the lawsuit was filed over the posting by Than Htut Aung, said Lt-Col. Myint Htwe, the head of the Yangon Eastern District police force.
"Than Htut Aung, the chief executive of Eleven Media Group, and chief editor Wai Phyo came to our station and surrendered themselves at 1 p.m. today," he told Reuters.
The journalists, who followed their newspaper story on Sunday with the Facebook posting adding details the next day, said their information came from two business people, whom they have refused to identify.
The editors and the group's representatives, contacted by telephone on Friday, were not immediately available for comment.
Phyo Min Thein, 47, a former political prisoner and rising star of Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party, has rejected the allegations as being intended to defame him.
"(The) post was intended to defame my personal dignity, (it's a) misrepresentation and it has disturbed my activities," Phyo Min Thein told a news conference on Thursday.
The two men were transferred on Friday to Yangon's infamous Insein prison and will stay in custody for two weeks, domestic media said.
It is up to the judge handling the case whether to grant them bail, said Ko Ni, one of Myanmar's leading constitutional scholars.
A member of the ruling NLD was charged under the same law in a separate case this month for criticizing the army and the commander-in-chief Min Aung Hlaing.
Arrests of social media users whose posts are deemed distasteful have continued under Suu Kyi's government.

SOFIA Nearly 10 years after Bulgaria joined the European Union, many of its people feel their problems are too low down the priority list in Brussels.
Many disappointed Bulgarians are now looking toward Russia, their former overlord in the Soviet era, as a more relevant neighbor.
That sentiment is likely to be reinforced in a presidential election run-off on Sunday which former air force commander General Rumen Radev, who is friendly toward the Kremlin, is expected to win.
Radev's position that Bulgaria, a NATO member, should hedge  its bets when it comes to international alliances, has hit a nerve in the Black Sea state, which already depends on Russia for most of its energy, military equipment and tourism revenues.
"The West and the European Union committed many mistakes with Russia in recent years," said Emilia Trencheva, a 48-year old accountant who was enjoying a walk in the gardens of the 1907 National Theatre in Sofia,a popular leisure spot.
"Russia is very important and they isolated it. Rumen Radev will find the right balance. He promised security and this is what people want to hear," she said
Since it annexed Crimea in 2014, Moscow has held military exercises and conducted overflights throughout what was once Communist-ruled Southeast Europe. It has also mounted a  lobbying campaign for influence, diplomats say.
Radev, who resigned from the air force to stand in the election as an independent allied to the Socialist Party, has expressed tolerance for the Russian move in Ukraine and favors easing Western sanctions on Moscow.
"Of course there are violations of international law in Crimea," he told BTV television after winning the election first round on Sunday. "But it is also a fact that at the moment, a Russian flag is flying over Crimea. What should we do? Close our eyes?"
Bulgaria's relationship with its communist-era masters  contrasts with much of the former Soviet bloc, which saw Moscow as an occupier, not a friend.
Bulgarians share a similar language and the Cyrillic alphabet with Russians. They also feel historical gratitude after Russia liberated Bulgaria from 500 years of Ottoman rule in late 19th century.
Unlike Hungary, Czechoslovakia or Poland, Bulgarians did not see Russian military force used against them and many did not develop a deep resentment to Russians.
Loyalties were put aside when the country of 7.2 million people joined the EU in 2007, with many hoping Brussels technocrats would force corrupt politicians to clean up and help them revive a struggling economy.
But Bulgaria remains the EU's poorest member. Popular anger over poor progress in eradicating graft and crime boiled over in 2014 into street protests, putting in power the current center-right government of the GERB party.
GERB appears to have disappointed voters as well, many of whom now associate it with the EU's failure to come through with reforms, and see it as corrupt elites.
"We see a collapse of trust in traditional authorities in the European Union," said Parvan Simeonov, a political analyst with Gallup International in Sofia.
"Only a few years ago, it was unthinkable to hear criticism of Western governments. This is no longer the case. The EU no longer fulfils the hopes of many people."
A Gallup poll conducted in June showed trust in the EU has dropped to its lowest level since 2007 at 48 percent, from about 60 percent. Another pollster said in August that 51 percent of Bulgarians have a strong positive attitude toward Russia.
Gallup listed the EU's internal problems such as the prospects of Brexit, its confrontation with Russia, the migrant crisis and the threat of terrorism among issues that worried voters.
Radev's calls have resonated elsewhere in the region.
In Moldova, pro-Russia Socialist Igor Dodon, 41, is expected to win another presidential vote on Sunday after campaigning on a pledge to reverse the country's course toward EU integration.
Serbia, where Moscow controls the oil and gas sector, is hosting a joint military exercise with Russia dubbed "Slavic Brotherhood". The pro-EU prime minister of its former Yugoslav peer Montenegro lost his parliamentary majority in an October election.
Bulgaria has built a fence to protect its border with Turkey to keep out migrants and refugees. Many Bulgarians fear that Muslim refugees pose a threat to their predominantly Orthodox Christian culture, and increase the risk for terrorist attacks and radicalizing its Muslim minority.
"I will vote for Radev on Sunday because as he said, I don't want Bulgaria to become a migrant ghetto," said Boris Krastev, a 58-year-old scientist.

ENTWINED
The two countries are already entwined in several ways.
Economic sanctions against Russia are opposed by nearly half of Bulgarians, who fear backing them would put Bulgaria at a disadvantage in other economic projects with Russia.
The sanctions had an impact on tourism, which has shrunk sharply. Some 700,000 Russians visited Bulgaria in 2013 compared with less than 500,000 last year.
The trend was overturned this summer when Russian holidaymakers came back. Prime Minister Boiko Borisov said this was a result of his dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Bulgaria is almost completely reliant on Russian gas supplies. Its only oil refinery is controlled by Russia's LUKOIL. Its nuclear power plant, which produces about 35 percent of the electricity in the country, operates on Soviet-built reactors and Russian nuclear fuel.
A study by Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington and the Sofia-based Center for the Study for the Democracy, released in October, said that Russia's economic presence is so strong that Bulgaria is "at high risk of Russian-influenced state capture".
The study, entitled "The Kremlin Playbook", said that due to its strong economic footprint, averaging 22 percent of GDP between 2015 and 2014, Russia was able to cultivate relationships with corrupt businessmen and local oligarchs who in turn have influence on politicians.
Meanwhile exports to Russia have dropped 24 percent last year alone, while imports to Bulgaria fell 20 percent, trade figures show.
"Should there be an instance where the European Union or NATO request that Sofia takes steps that are perceived to work against Russia's interests, the Bulgarian government would come under enormous pressure from pro-Russian parties, prominent businessmen and organizations that mobilize a full range of tools to change the policy in Moscow's favor," it said.
    Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov said that if Radev wins the election, Bulgaria could fall foul of the EU because he sided with the Russian view on Crimea.
"I guarantee you that if Mr Radev expresses such a position at any meeting of head of states, the next stage will be a full isolation of Bulgaria," he said.

JUBA A popular South Sudanese radio station set up with U.S. backing was shut down on Friday by security officials, a journalist said, the latest media outlet to face pressure from the authorities.
Nichola Mandil, a senior journalist at Eye Radio in Juba, which many listeners rely on for news, told Reuters that security officials stopped broadcasts without giving a reason.
"Eye Radio has been officially shut down by the National Security indefinitely," he said, adding that three security officers "shut down the radio station, locked the three studios and took the keys with them."
"They ordered all the journalists to leave the station immediately and we are now in the process of going home," he said, adding that the radio's chief executive was going to meet the director-general of National Security for an explanation.
There was no immediate comment from government officials. One senior official contacted said he was not aware of the incident.
Although radio broadcasts had stopped, the website www.eyeradio.org showed stories posted on Nov. 11.
Journalists in South Sudan have often complained of harassment by the authorities during the civil conflict that erupted in December 2013 between troops loyal to President Salva Kiir and those backing his former deputy Riek Machar.
A peace deal signed in 2015 failed to stick and fighting in Juba flared up in July, prompting Machar to flee after returning to the capital just a few weeks earlier.
In September, the authorities shut the Nation Mirror newspaper, without giving a reason although it followed coverage of a report by a U.S.-based group alleging misuse of state funds by the nation's leaders. It remains closed.
Another newspaper, the Juba Monitor, has also been closed temporarily on several occasions.
Eye Radio, which usually operates 24/7 and is expanding its reach across the country, delivers broadcasts in English, Arabic and other local languages.
It first broadcast in 2003, before South Sudan's independence in 2011 from Sudan, as a project backed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development. It now calls itself a "self-sustaining independent radio station."

ISTANBUL Turkish police detained the chairman of opposition newspaper Cumhuriyet at Istanbul's main airport on Friday, less than a week after nine of its executives and journalists were formally arrested, the paper said.
Authorities had ordered the paper's editor and senior staff be held in jail pending trial over the secularist newspaper's alleged support for a coup attempt on July 15. [nL8N1D604C]
Chairman Akin Atalay was detained at the city's Ataturk Airport on his return from Germany after an arrest warrant was issued for him, Cumhuriyet said.
Since the failed putsch, more than 110,000 judges, teachers, police and civil servants have been suspended or dismissed and 36,000 formally arrested in a crackdown that President Tayyip Erdogan's critics say is quashing legitimate opposition.
Under the state of emergency declared after the coup attempt, police can detain suspects for up to 30 days before a court must decide whether to issue a formal arrest warrant pending trial.
Turkey has also closed more than 130 media outlets since July, raising concerns among its Western allies about deteriorating press freedoms.
Cumhuriyet's previous editor, Can Dundar, was jailed last year for publishing state secrets involving Turkey's support for Syrian rebels. He was later released and is now overseas to avoid arrest. [nL8N1B03FI]
State-run media said on Thursday prosecutors were seeking life sentences for nine staff of pro-Kurdish newspaper Ozgur Gundem, including prize-winning novelist Asli Erdogan, on a charge of membership of a terrorist organisation. [nL8N1DB6MM]

BEIRUT Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his allies hope to benefit from Donald Trump’s election win, believing it has saved them from the risks of an interventionist Clinton administration.
Trump's win may have already shifted the course of the Russian-backed military campaign in Aleppo. A senior pro-Assad official told Reuters that plans to capture the rebel-held east by January were shaped around an assumption Clinton would win.
The confidence in Damascus will have been justified if some of Trump’s comments on Syria crystallize into policy, though there are questions over how far he will follow through on suggestions such as cooperating with Russia - President Bashar al-Assad's most powerful military ally - against Islamic State.
One complicating factor could be Trump's tough stance on Iran, Assad's other main military backer. Trump has threatened to rip up the nuclear deal with Iran and heaped criticism on the sanctions relief it brought. Long-standing Republican aversion to Assad may also block any big policy shift, analysts say.
Yet Trump has struck a different tone to current U.S. policy on some aspects of the multi-sided Syrian conflict, where the United States with allies Turkey and Saudi Arabia has backed some of the insurgents who have been fighting to topple Assad for more than five years.
Trump has questioned the wisdom of backing rebels, played down the U.S. goal of getting Assad to leave power, and noted that while he didn't like him, "Assad is killing ISIS" with Iran and Russia. ISIS is an acronym for Islamic State.
"This is very comforting for us and our allies in Syria," said the senior official in the military alliance fighting in support of Assad, who is backed by the Russian air force, Iran's Revolutionary Guards, Lebanon's Hezbollah, and other militias.
"The wave is currently with us, serving our interests, and we must benefit from it as fully as possible," said the official, who declined to be identified by nationality or affiliation so he could give a frank assessment.
The war has shattered Syria into a patchwork of areas controlled by Assad's state, rebels battling to topple him, a powerful Kurdish militia, and the Islamic State group. It has killed hundreds of thousands of people, and created the world's worst refugee crisis.
While Washington has provided significant support to the  opposition, it has never matched the backing given to Assad by Russia and Iran. The rebels have seen U.S. policy as a betrayal of their revolt, with Washington focusing mostly on the fight against IS in the last two years.

TRUMP "A NEW FACTOR" FOR DAMASCUS
The ground war between Assad and the rebellion has this year focused largely on Aleppo, in the north west of Syria. The government is trying to recapture the rebel-held east of the city, the opposition's most important urban stronghold.
Expectations of a Hillary Clinton win have been shaping military planning in the Aleppo campaign for some time, and the aim had been to conclude the campaign before the new U.S. president took office, the senior official said.
While that is still the plan, the official said Trump's victory was a "new factor". Russian President Vladimir Putin would "certainly have a different approach towards the entire Syrian crisis based on what will happen with Trump".
The Syrian newspaper al-Watan said most Syrians had felt "joy" at the result, and that many had spent the night up following the U.S. election. Trump had no designs in Syria, or the region, it declared.
While some in the opposition expressed concern about Trump's statements and views on Putin, others still hold out hope for a U.S. policy that serves their cause. A senior rebel leader noted Trump's views on Iran were "positive" for the Syrian opposition.
"Today, the role of the United States remains active and essential in Syria, regardless of whether he tries to distance himself from it, he won't be able to," said the rebel, who declined to be identified so he could talk freely.
A build-up of Russian forces has fueled speculation of an imminent escalation in the campaign for eastern Aleppo, where hundreds of people were reported killed in air strikes before Russia declared a pause on Oct. 18.
Rebels say they are well-entrenched in eastern Aleppo, a besieged area the United Nations says is home to 270,000 people. The rebels say it will be impossible for government forces to take the area.
Russian firepower has in recent weeks focused on rebel-held areas to the west of the city, from where insurgents recently launched their own offensive on government-held parts of Aleppo. Rebel shelling has killed dozens of people in western Aleppo.
Asked about Aleppo in an October debate with Clinton, Trump said it was a humanitarian disaster but the city had "basically" fallen. Clinton, he said, was talking in favor of rebels without knowing who they were.
The rebels fighting Assad in western Syria include nationalists fighting under the Free Syrian Army banner, some of them trained in a CIA-backed program, and jihadists such as the group formerly known as the al Qaeda-linked Nusra Front.
Rather than focusing on fighting Assad, Islamic State, has prioritized the expansion and defense of its self-declared "caliphate" in eastern and central Syria.

REPUBLICAN AVERSION TO ASSAD, PUTIN, IRAN
Damascus had hoped that it could win back international legitimacy as part of the international fight against Islamic State, but the United States has rejected that idea, viewing Assad as part of the problem.
The U.S.-led fight against Islamic State in Syria is fraught with complications. The United States has built its strategy around a powerful Kurdish militia that has carved out a self-governing areas across much of northern Syria.
But its alliance with that militia, the YPG, has angered Turkey, a U.S. ally worried that Kurdish influence in northern Syria will fuel separatism among its own Kurdish minority.
The YPG has in turn fought FSA rebels backed by Turkey, which is itself waging a major operation in northern Syria.
One senior adviser who Trump will inherit is the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Marine General Joseph Dunford.
Dunford told Congress in September he thought it would not be a good idea for the military to share intelligence with Russia on Syria, something Moscow has long sought. Republican stalwarts who might join Trump's cabinet or become advisers are unlikely to want close relations with Putin.
    Andrew Tabler, a Syria expert at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, forecast that Trump would start out by sounding out Russia on options for a political transition or agreement to end the war.
Failing that, he may decide to leave western Syria as a Russian zone of influence, with the United States and its allies fighting Islamic State in the east.
"I think it is going to be fluid. Remember a lot of the Republican foreign policy folks in Washington will probably go into this government, and they have very strong feelings about Iran and about the Assad regime, so I don't see a situation where the United States suddenly cozies up to Assad," he said.

BEIJING China will never allow any part of its territory to break off, President Xi Jinping said on Friday, within a week of reining in Hong Kong independence moves and ignoring Taiwan's urging to heed democratic aspirations in the Asian financial hub.
Xi made the comments at an event in Beijing's Great Hall of the People to mark 150 years since the birth of Sun Yat-Sen, China's latest bid to exploit the legacy of a man many view as the founder of the modern nation.
"We will never allow any person, any group, any political party, at any time, in any way, to split from China any part of its territory," said Xi, who is also general secretary of the ruling Communist Party.
"To uphold our national sovereignty and territorial integrity, to never let our country split again and to never let history repeat itself - these are our solemn promises to our people and to our history."
China's parliament on Monday passed a ruling effectively barring two elected Hong Kong pro-independence politicians from taking office, Beijing's most direct intervention in the territory's affairs since the 1997 handover.
Recalling Sun Yat-Sen's belief in a united nation, Xi urged people in China and Taiwan, as well as ethnic Chinese around the world, to oppose independence for Taiwan.
"Any Taiwanese political party, organization or individual – regardless of what they have advocated for in the past – as long as they recognize the "1992 consensus," as long as they recognize the mainland and Taiwan are one China, we are willing to associate with them," Xi added.
The "1992 consensus", agreed with Taiwan's previous China-friendly Nationalist government, acknowledges Taiwan and China are part of a single China, but allows both sides to interpret who is the ruler.
Beijing has halted official communication with self-ruled Taiwan because the government of President Tsai Ing-wen, the leader of the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), refuses to acknowledge this "one China" principle.
In the Chinese capital this month, Xi met Hung Hsiu-chu, the chief of Taiwan's opposition Nationalists, who has said the party holds out the possibility of a peace pact with China.

(This story has been refiled to correct translation of quote in third paragraph)

NEW DELHI As New Delhi grappled with its worst smog in 17 years, the head of India's largest mobile payment firm got on a plane and left, one of thousands of professionals escaping pollution that could cost the capital and the broader economy dear.
Vijay Shekhar Sharma, founder of PayTM payment start-up, left last Sunday for a temporary stay in Mumbai, worried about the impact of hazardous clouds of dust, smoke and fumes that hang over Delhi during the winter months.
"It became very visibly clear that it is going to be tough in Delhi, especially with young kids," Sharma said in Mumbai.
"We were worried that it could create long-term (health) problems."
His company, which has considered moving from its base outside Delhi, has installed air purifiers, brought in plants and masks and offered extra health assistance.
Telecoms operator Idea Cellular and others have allowed more employees to work at home, and hired buses so that car traffic is reduced - all at their own expense.
A few companies are thriving from the heavy smog hanging over the city earlier this month - providers of face masks and air purifiers have seen sales soar.
But others, like the car manufacturers, are in the firing line of local and national politicians who want to reduce the deadly haze, while estate agents and tour operators have complained of a slowdown in business.
Delhi, home to around 17 million people, is among the fastest growing states in India. Its $84 billion economy has been expanding at more than 8 percent for the past two years, faster than a 7.4 percent national average.
Its air quality, meanwhile, has deteriorated, even by the standards of a country with some of the world's most polluted cities. Conditions had improved by Friday, but the problem is perennial and has been particularly acute this winter.
Companies have yet to tot up the cost of a week of coughing, spluttering and watering eyes, but local industry lobby group Assocham estimates "several billions of dollars" of new investments are under threat.
A study by the World Bank shows Asia's third-largest economy lost 8.5 percent of its GDP in 2013 due to air pollution.

"WORST ON EARTH"
Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL), a global real estate services firm serving large corporates, said some clients were reconsidering Delhi as a base, as costs of working there rise.
"This is increasing their operational costs as they are being made to spend more to provide a healthy workplace to their employees," said Santosh Kumar, a senior executive at the firm.
Delhi's image is deteriorating more widely, a headache for tour promoters and a government touting "Brand India".
Some local tour operators say they are already receiving requests from overseas partners to redraw the itinerary of foreign tourists to avoid even an overnight stay in Delhi. Business travelers say they are cancelling trips.
"The ongoing tourism season, which is yet to pick up, could see a maximum hit," Assocham said.
Expatriates are also thinking twice about living in the Indian capital. JLL's Kumar said more smog could see foreigners packing their bags, a blow to real estate as well as employment.
Lisa Akerman, a Swedish national who lives in an affluent Delhi neighborhood, said authorities needed to do much more than they were.
Akerman moved to the city two years ago with her family and has taken measures to ensure clean air in her apartment for her two small daughters. Still, the choking smog left her worried about their health.
Earlier this week, she decided to take them out of the city for a while.
"The pollution level is too much for the children," she said by 'phone from Goa, where she is camping with her kids. "While I love Delhi, its air quality will be a major consideration in deciding whether we want to extend our stay here."

NOT EVERYONE LOSES
The local government has taken steps to reduce traffic amid widespread public anger at pollution that has caused choking, wheezing and breathlessness.
Licenses are being withdrawn for diesel-powered vehicles older than 15 years, and authorities are considering resuming an "odd-even" scheme, under which cars can only travel in the city on alternate days depending on their registration number.
Those steps, and the risk that India's courts will impose stricter rules on emissions, are a potential blow to foreign and domestic carmakers, some of whom have asked for greater clarity.
But not everyone is complaining about the smog.
Japan's Daikin has seen sales of air purifiers increase by up to three times since the Hindu Diwali festival, and its stock that had been expected to last until March is exhausted.
To meet growing orders, the Osaka-based air-conditioner maker increased shipments from its Thai factory by 50 percent.
Nirvana India, which distributes the Vogmask face mask in South Asia, reported soaring sales.
It sold 300 to 400 pieces a week around this time last year, but since Diwali at the end of October, it has sold 5,000-8,000 a week and is seeking emergency stocks from Singapore, China and Korea.
"Earlier, only expats, patients and government departments would buy these masks," said chief executive Jaidhar Gupta. "Now everyone is buying."

LONDON The leader of Britain's Liberal Democrat Party said on Friday his lawmakers would vote against triggering the formal process of leaving the European Union unless the government promises to hold a second referendum.
Tim Farron, whose party has only have eight members in parliament's lower House of Commons, has long called for a second referendum on the terms of any deal with EU leaders.
He said his party would now vote against triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which kicks off the EU divorce process,  if its demand was ignored.
"We'd vote against Article 50 if our 'red line' is not met ... which is we want to respect the will of the people and that means they must have their say on a referendum on the terms of the deal," he told BBC radio.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has said she will invoke Article 50 before the end of next March but last week London's High Court ruled that this would require the approval of parliament, a step which could potentially delay or even derail her plans.
May has still promised to deliver a full exit from the EU and the government are appealing the legal decision to the Supreme Court, the UK's highest judicial body which will hear the case next month.
In June, Britons voted in a referendum to leave the EU by 52 percent to 48 percent but Farron said a second referendum was critical "so that nobody would have imposed upon them something they didn't vote for."
"We believe that what started with democracy last June, which we totally respect, must not now end up with a stitch up, with a deal being imposed on the British people that absolutely nobody voted for," said Farron.
Several lawmakers (MPs) from Britain's opposition Labour party have also said they might vote against triggering Article 50, though the party's leadership has indicated it would not seek to block the process.
"Because they didn't like the first answer, Liberal Democrat and Labour MPs seek to put the question all over again in hope of a different answer," said junior Brexit minister David Jones.

SOFIA Former air force commander Rumen Radev, backed by the opposition Socialists, has expanded his lead over ruling party candidate Tsetska Tsacheva and is poised to win Bulgaria's presidential runoff on Sunday, two opinion polls showed.
A win for Radev, 53, is likely to move Bulgaria closer to Russia, putting it at odds with its European Union and NATO allies, and trigger months of political instability after Prime Minister Boiko Borisov said he would step down if his candidate loses.
An opinion survey by Gallup International showed support for Radev had grown to 51 percent, while parliamentary speaker Tsacheva, 58, backed by Borisov's center-right GERB party, is trailing with 40 percent.
Another independent pollster, Alpha Research, put backing for Radev at 49.6 percent and gave Tsacheva 39.1 percent, suggesting about a quarter of the electorate in the Black Sea state are still undecided.
Radev, a novice to politics, is winning over Bulgarians who are frustrated with a political elite they see as corrupt and self-centered.
"People had high hopes for a quick, brief transition, prosperity, high living standards," the mild-mannered Radev said in a televised debate late on Thursday. "But this happened for a small part of the citizens only. The disappointment is that there is no justice."
His lead also reflects disappointment with Borisov's government over its failure to push ahead with meaningful reforms to overhaul the graft-prone judiciary in the Balkan country of 7.2 million.
Radev has pledged to support tough border security measures to prevent an influx of migrants and to draw lessons from neighboring Romania's greater success in tackling corruption.
In Bulgaria, the government and parliament wield most power but the president can veto legislation once, appoints some key officials and is also chief commander of the armed forces.

JOHOR BAHRU, Malaysia When Malaysian officials went to an island near the site of a boat accident that killed dozens of Indonesians on their way home last week, they were told the vessel was plying illegally with more than double the permitted number of passengers aboard.
For Paul Khiu, commander of the marine police in Johor state at the southern tip of peninsula Malaysia, the discovery came as no surprise.
"These boats can take 30 to 50 people, but they always overload," Khiu told Reuters on his return from Batam island, on the other side of the Singapore Strait.
The boat had come from Johor, a one-hour voyage, carrying  Indonesian workers and their families before it capsized near Batam.
Hundreds of thousands of Indonesians are illegal migrants in Malaysia, doing construction, plantation and domestic work that pays much more than they could earn at home. Some have lived in Malaysia for years and have also brought over their families.
Advocacy groups say the illegal workers are subjected to many abuses and the two governments are doing little to address the situation. Between 600 and 700 illegal Indonesian workers die in Malaysia each year of various causes, including disease, work accidents, drowning and starvation, said Anis Hidayah of the Migrant Care group.
A spokesman for Indonesia's foreign ministry, Armanatha Nasir, said illegal workers remained "a challenge" but both governments were committed to finding a solution.
Malaysia's Home Affairs Ministry said it would soon be meeting Indonesian Embassy officials for preliminary talks on the illegal workers issue, but did not give any further details.
The government had said in March that it would stop bringing in new foreign workers in a bid to encourage businesses to hire locally and also to stop illegal migration.
It had launched a major exercise to legalize foreign workers in 2011, including an amnesty that expired in 2014.

DANGEROUS CROSSING
Some of the migrants make the illegal crossing across the Strait of Malacca separating Indonesia's Sumatra from peninsular Malaysia, but most slip over the sprawling land border between the two countries on the island of Borneo.
There are few controls along the 2,000-km (1,200-mile) border which experts say is virtually impossible to police. The to-and-fro movement has become a lively business, and there are towns on both sides to cater for the migrants.
The sea route is more dangerous. Officials said that more than half of the 101 people on board the high-speed boat died after it hit a reef off Batam and sank, many of them infants and children. Forty-one people survived and six remain missing.
Migrant Care puts the number of Indonesians living in Malaysia at more than 1 million, but other estimates put it even higher.
Hidayah, at Migrant Care, said government regulation in the plantation, construction and domestic helper sectors was poor.
"There is no policy on protection of domestic helpers. There is no regulation of working hours. There are no holidays," she said, adding the situation was much the same in the construction and plantation sectors.
Because of the prohibitive costs and bureaucracy required to enter Malaysia legally, most workers opt for illicit ways to get in, Hidayah said.

SHORT-LIVED REACTION
When tragedies such as last week's accident strike, government action is reactive and short-lived, activists say.
"Despite the need for sustained political attention, often these issues are only addressed in the wake of some particularly egregious incident that sparks public outcry," said Paul Dillon, Jakarta-based program director at the International Organization for Migration.
A 64-year-old Indonesian metalworker, who has lived illegally in Malaysia for nine years, said that on a night-time journey home last year, his boat capsized.
"I could have gone the normal, legal route ... but I just couldn't afford it at that time," the worker told Reuters from a sparsely furnished housing block in Johor he shares with six others.
"I thought I was going to die," he said of the ordeal which he and 35 others survived by swimming 1 km (a half mile) to shore.
Since that incident he has been considering getting documentation, regardless of the costs.
Indonesia has in recent years tried to stop unskilled workers, especially domestic workers, going overseas after a string of physical abuse cases. There is now a moratorium on domestic workers going to 21 countries in the Middle East, and government officials have also discussed banning them from Malaysia and Singapore.
But a persistent shortage of jobs at home means Indonesians are still desperate to work overseas.
"The point is availability of work. For that reason, the most important thing is to create as many jobs as possible domestically," said Hermono, who like many Indonesians goes by one name, of the National Migrant Workers' Protection Agency.
Indonesian migrant workers contributed around $9.6 billion in remittances in 2015, according to the World Bank.
Activists say a ban would only cut off these economically critical inflows and force low-skilled workers to resort to illegal and dangerous means of travel.
"People need to earn and if the jobs are elsewhere, you should be ensuring people can go legitimately and work safely," said Dee Jupp, an independent researcher who has done studies on Indonesian migrant workers. "Recognizing this will give legitimacy and allow it to be regulated and safer."

BUDAPEST Hungary's government will not resubmit a law to ban the resettlement of migrants after parliament narrowly rejected the plan this week, Prime Minister Viktor Orban told state radio on Friday.
Orban had said the amendment was needed to honor an October referendum, in which more than three million Hungarians, an overwhelming majority of those who voted, rejected EU quotas stipulating how many migrants member states must accept.
The far-right opposition Jobbik party sealed the bill's rejection by boycotting the vote on Tuesday. It said it would throw its support behind the ban if Orban scrapped a separate government bond scheme that allows foreigners to buy residency rights.
But giving way to Jobbik's demand would have been politically difficult for Orban after the parliamentary defeat.
"We tried to put this (referendum decision) into the constitution but could not achieve this as the opposition sided with Brussels," Orban said in an interview on radio.
As a result, Orban added, his government would have to fight the European Union's migrant quotas in Brussels instead, using Hungary's existing constitution.
Orban said he could rely on his own Fidesz party and its partner the Christian Democrats in his fight now that Jobbik had turned from a radical party into "a bunch of softies" who  represented the interests of Brussels instead of Hungary's.
"The battleground is in Brussels, at home we have done what we could, our conscience is clean," he said.
Jobbik is Fidesz's strongest political opponent. The latest poll by research center Tarki showed its support at 10 percent in October, down from 14 percent in July. Fidesz widened its support to 32 percent from 30, with the opposition Socialists on 9 percent support. The next election is due in 2018.

DAKAR The top U.N. regional official for West Africa on Thursday called for the release of dozens of political prisoners in Gambia as long-ruling President Yahya Jammeh submitted his candidacy for a fifth mandate ahead of a December election.
During a visit to the country on Thursday, Mohamed Ibn Chambas urged transparency and a "level playing field" ahead of polls which regional observers have previously boycotted, citing intimidation of the opposition.
"I entreat the government to release the thirty protesters involved in the April demonstrations, as well as the fourteen others who are in pre-trial detention ...," he said, referring to protests in favor of free speech and electoral reform.
He also sought probes into the deaths of two opposition leaders detained around the same period. Jammeh's critics say the deaths are suspicious but the government denies any wrongdoing.
Despite a rare show of unity from Gambia's opposition who have rallied behind businessman Adama Barrow, most observers still expect Jammeh to extend his 22-year rule on Dec. 1.
That is despite growing signs of discontent within the country such as the April protests and a rising number of departures from Gambia, which has the highest number of migrants arriving in Italy this year relative to its population.
Many others have drowned on the way.
Chambas added that it was "regrettable" that a meeting scheduled for earlier this week between Jammeh and the opposition that was intended to provide guidelines for fair elections had been canceled.
At the last election in 2011, regional bloc ECOWAS refused to send observers, citing intimidation of the opposition and the electorate.
However, Jammeh said on Thursday all observers were welcome.
"I urged the chairman of the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC), Alieu Momar Njai, to invite all those who doubt the credibility of the electoral process to come observe the whole election procedure," he said shortly after filing his candidacy to the IEC.
EU sources had previously said they had positive indications that a small team of election experts would be welcomed to the country.
That is despite signs of the former British colony's growing disenchantment with the West, such as its government's decision to withdraw from the International Criminal Court in October.

SANTIAGO A plane traveling between Santiago and the southern Chilean city of Punta Arenas had to return to the capital and make an emergency landing on Thursday afternoon after a bomb threat, authorities said.
A Brazilian woman on board the LATAM Airlines  flight had told one of the flight attendants there was a bomb on the plane around 20 minutes into the flight, said airport manager Juan Luis Rodriguez.
After returning to Santiago, the passengers were escorted off the plane, he said, and the woman was arrested. Authorities are searching the plane, he added.
LATAM Airlines said it could not comment under aviation protocols.

MAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan An attack on the German consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif on Thursday killed several civilians and wounded dozens of others but all the Germans at the compound have been rescued, the police chief of the local province said.
Sayed Kamal Sadat, police chief of Balkh province, said those wounded by shattered glass from the powerful explosion had been taken to local hospitals.
Afghan special forces were still conducting search operations but were not encountering any more resistance, he said. The area would be locked down until morning when the search would continue after daybreak.

NEW YORK Four Turkish and Iranian nationals from the same family have been indicted on charges they violated U.S. sanctions against Iran by conducting hundreds of millions of dollars of transactions for Iran's government and Iranian metals companies.
According to an indictment made public on Thursday in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, Habibollah Zarei, Nesteren Zarei Deniz, Bora Deniz and Abdullah Evren Erdem conspired to evade U.S. sanctions from 2014 until at least January 2016.
The defendants were accused of helping three Iranian companies import and export large quantities of copper and steel to and from Iran, and arranging for U.S. banks to transfer at least $100 million to further the scheme.
"These defendants conspired and schemed to hide millions of dollars' of financial transactions specifically to evade U.S. sanctions laws," and deserve to face "strong legal action," U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in a statement.
All of the defendants are at large. It is unclear whether they have hired lawyers.
Earlier this year, Reza Zarrab, a prominent Turkish gold trader, was arrested and criminally charged in a separate U.S. case for allegedly conspiring to conduct large transactions on behalf of Iran and entities there.
Prosecutors said Zarei, 67, is the father of Zarei Deniz, 39, and father-in-law of both her husband Deniz, 44, and Erdem, 32.
All live in Turkey and are citizens there, while Zarei and Zarei Deniz are also Iranian citizens, prosecutors added.
Each of the four defendants was charged with four conspiracy counts for alleged bank fraud, evading sanctions, money laundering and defrauding the United States. The bank fraud conspiracy charge carries a maximum 30-year prison term.
Papers relating to the case were first filed last December in the Manhattan court.
The case is U.S. v. Deniz et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 15-cr-00833.

A Russian hacking group began attacking U.S.-based policy think tanks within hours of Donald Trump's presidential election victory, according to cyber experts who suspect Moscow is seeking information on the incoming administration.
Three cyber security firms told Reuters that are tracking a spear-phishing campaign by a Russian-government linked group known as Cozy Bear, which is widely suspected of hacking the Democratic Party ahead of the election.
"Probably now they are trying to rush to gain access to certain targets where they can get a better understanding on what is going on in Washington after the election and during the transition period," said Jaime Blasco, chief scientist with cyber security firm AlienVault.
Targets included the Council for Foreign Relations, said Adam Segal, a security expert with the think tank. His colleagues include former U.S. Senator John D. Rockefeller IV and former Reagan administration State Department official Elliott Abrams.
Representatives with the Russian Embassy in Washington could not be reached for comment. Moscow has strongly denied that it was behind the hacks.
Spear-phishing campaigns use malware-tainted emails to infect computers of carefully selected staff at target organizations. They typically appear to be from people whom the victims know and on subjects of interest to them.
Some of the emails appeared to be from Harvard University under the subject line, “Why American Elections are flawed,” according to Washington-based cyber security firm Volexity.
The attacks began as the Obama administration was weighing if and how it might respond in its final two months to a series of high-profile hacks on Democratic Party organizations that U.S. intelligence officials have publicly blamed on Moscow.
A former senior Obama administration official said on Thursday that the White House had decided to take action against Russia after the election but no decision had been made on exactly how to respond.
Options included U.S. prosecutors indicting Russians believed to be behind the attacks, applying new economic sanctions against Moscow and the United States launching a retaliatory cyber attack against Russia, said the former official who asked not to be named.
White House officials feared that retaliating before the election could have led Russia to launch a major cyber attack on the United States that would have disrupted the banking system, power grid or internet service. But they said administration officials had decided that the United States needed to show after the election that it would respond to state-sponsored cyber attacks, said the former official.
Trump has said he is not convinced Russia was behind the attacks. He has yet to fill key national security posts, which makes it difficult to assess how his administration might handle the issue.
Harvard's chief information security officer, Christian Hamer, warned staff about the attacks on Thursday afternoon, saying that federal law enforcement was investigating.
He said some of the emails used in the campaign appeared as if they were sent from members of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences, using the school's branding.
An FBI representative declined comment.

BERLIN A German Foreign ministry spokesman reported fighting outside and in the compound of the German consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif late on Thursday after a blast that NATO forces said caused heavy damage to the building.
The spokesman said Afghan security and NATO forces were now on site and Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier was receiving continual updates on the situation.
The ministry had convened a crisis task force, the spokesman added.

LIMA (This story corrects culture ministry's Nov 9 comments to say man was accidentally shot dead and not killed by arrow from isolated tribe; corrects headline, paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 to reflect Nov 10 ministry statement.)
An indigenous man was killed and two were wounded last week in the latest clash between sedentary communities and the isolated Mashco Piro tribe as they emerge more frequently from their jungle enclaves, the government said.
The nomadic Mashco Piro turned their bows and arrows on members of the Nahua tribe who had followed their footprints into the wilderness near their town Santa Rosa de Serjali in the region of Ucayali, said Deputy Culture Minister Alfredo Luna.
Some of the Nahua were carrying weapons and a Nahua man was accidentally shot dead in the encounter, the ministry said in a statement on Thursday. Two members of the Nahua community were wounded by arrows.
The Mashco Piro have largely shunned contact with outsiders for at least 100 years as they live off of hunting and foraging in a vast expanse of rainforest in Peru and Brazil.
Believed to be descendants of farmers who fled abuse by white plantation owners during the Amazonian rubber boom in the late 1800s, the Mashco Piro have increasingly ventured outside of their safe havens in recent years.
Illegal logging, drug trafficking and wildcat gold mining may be forcing the Mashco Piro from some lands, while climate change may be disrupting where they traditionally find food and water, Luna said.
Peru broke with its longstanding policy of avoiding contact with isolated tribes last year to communicate with a group of Mashco Piro that had repeatedly appeared at the edge of settled indigenous towns in recent years, killing at least two locals in bow and arrow attacks.
Luna said last week's deadly clash was the first inside a reserve set up for the Nahua, Indians who had lived in isolation up until the 1980s when illegal loggers captured a group of them and spread disease among their members that killed scores.
Peru is home to about a dozen isolated tribes whose members have immune systems with little resistance to common illnesses.
The Mashco Piro may also be drawn to settled areas where they can seize machetes, cooking pots and crops that make their lives in the wilderness easier.
Luna said studies indicate that there may be between 1,000 to 4,000 members of the Mashco Piro in the Amazon.

BERLIN U.S. president-elect Donald Trump needs to clarify his views on Russia, and to understand that NATO must be treated as an alliance of shared values rather than a business, Germany's defense minister said.
"What his advisors will hopefully tell him and what he needs to learn is that NATO isn't just a business. It's not a company," Ursula von der Leyen told a ZDF talk show on Thursday. "I don't know how he values NATO."
During his election campaign, Trump threatened to abandon U.S. allies in Europe if they do not spend enough on defense.
"You can't say 'the past doesn't matter, the values we share don't matter' but instead try to get as much money out of it (NATO) as possible and whether I can get a good deal out of it," she said.
Von der Leyen advised Trump against getting too close to Russian President Vladimir Putin, noting that NATO had stood by the United States after the 9/11 attacks.
"Donald Trump has to say clearly on which side he is. Whether he's on the side of the law, peace and democracy or whether he doesn't care about all that and instead he's looking for a best buddy (with Putin)," she said.
Trump has expressed admiration for Putin, condemned by the West for his actions in Ukraine.


WASHINGTON The U.S. Treasury said on Thursday it had imposed sanctions on four leaders of al Nusra Front under regulations targeting people suspected by the United States of engaging in terrorist activity or supporting terrorist groups.
The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control said the sanctions were aimed at disrupting al Nusra Front's military, recruitment and financing activities. The regulations bar U.S. citizens from engaging in business with people  sanctioned by the office.
The Treasury's actions were made in coordination with the U.S. State Department, which on Thursday named Jabhat Fatah al Sham as an alias of al Nusra Front. The United States considers Nusra Front to be al Qaeda's affiliate in Syria.
Nusra Front said in July it was breaking ties with al Qaeda and changing its name to Jabhat Fatah al Sham in an effort to deny the United States and Russia a pretext to attack it. But Washington has not recognized the change.
The Treasury said in a statement it was imposing sanctions on four Nusra Front leaders:
- Abdallah Muhammad bin-Sulayman al-Muhaysini, a member of al Nusra Front's inner leadership circle who was involved in recruiting fighters for the group in northern Syria;
- Jamal Husayn Zayniyah, a Nusra Front leader who was responsible for planning operations in al Qalamun, Syria, and Lebanon;
- Abdul Jashari, a military adviser for Nusra Front in Syria who has helped raise funds for the families of fighters of the group;
- Ashraf Ahmad Fari al Allak, a Nusra Front military commander in Dara Province, Syria.

BERLIN Thursday's attack on the German consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif likely involved two car bombs, and resulted in heavy damage to parts of the consulate, a spokesman for NATO forces in the city said.
"There are massive damages to the consulate," the spokesman said, adding that NATO troops were now on site securing the consulate and preparing to evacuate its personnel.
At least one car packed with explosives was rammed into the high outer wall surrounding the consulate, but authorities were investigating if a second car was involved, the spokesman said.
It could not be ruled out that additional explosives were in the area, the spokesman said.
Militants attacked the German consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif late on Thursday, ramming a car packed with explosives into its high outer wall in an assault that media said killed at least two people and wounded scores.
The bombing was claimed by the Taliban in retaliation for NATO air strikes last week near the northern city of Kunduz, German broadcaster Deutsche Welle said.
At least two people were killed and 60 wounded including locals in Thursday's attack, some critically, the Twitter feed of a journalist, Bilal Sarwary, quoted a local doctor as saying.


UNITED NATIONS United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on Wednesday he hopes the administration of Donald Trump will "strengthen the bonds of international cooperation" and described Hillary Clinton as "a powerful symbol of women's empowerment."
"In the aftermath of a hard-fought and often divisive campaign, it is worth recalling and reaffirming that the unity in diversity of the United States is one of the country’s greatest strengths. I encourage all Americans to stay true to that spirit," Ban said after Trump's presidential election victory.
"People everywhere look to the United States to use its remarkable power to help lift humanity up and to work for the common good," Ban told reporters.

DUBAI The future leader of the Middle East's top foreign ally is, in the words of a Saudi prince, an anti-Muslim "disgrace", openly disdainful of Arab security partnerships, who believes Saudi Arabia would cease to exist for long without the United States.
Donald Trump's presidential election victory means he is the man Washington's Arab allies must deal with after his January inauguration, as they seek U.S. help to end wars from Syria to Mosul, manage humanitarian crises and provide jobs for their populations at a time of low oil prices.
Trump's campaign tirades against Muslim migrants - the target of Prince Alwaleed bin Talal's comments on Twitter - and against Arab allies who don't "pay" for U.S. support suggest the relationship could be delicate.
How far Trump the president will differ from Trump the polarizing election candidate is not clear.
Brief, congratulatory messages flowed quickly from Arab allies, including one from Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz, who wished Trump success in "achieving security and stability in the Middle East and the wider world".
But underneath the protocol, for many Arab rulers and royals Trump’s victory is a source of anxiety. They now face a new America led by Trump who, they fear, could upend a regional order that has prevailed for decades.
Some ordinary Arabs like Trump's no-nonsense style, and praise what they see as his capacity for tough leadership.
"A strong leader ... that is what is needed here in the Middle East and all across the world," said Ali al-Muhannadi, 57, a Qatari owner of an electrical company, filling his car up at a petrol station in Doha on Wednesday.
Muhannadi saw Trump as a useful ally in confronting the jihadist threat, saying he is "very frank and not like a politician. Islamist radicals are bad for the West and for us too".
But privately there are concerns about a lack of clarity in Trump's policies for the world's most combustible region as it struggles to break free from war while trying to safeguard the free flow of its oil exports.

DISAFFECTED ARAB YOUTH
In particular there are worries that Trump's hostile rhetoric towards Muslim migrants will play into the hands of Islamic State and al Qaeda, which are eager to recruit disaffected young Arabs to wage war on the regional governments they despise as stooges of Washington.
Gulf Arab leaders want a U.S. president who understands their concerns after eight years of what they regard as diffidence under President Barack Obama, someone who did not provide the kind of personal contact they value.
In particular they want help to push back against Iran, their main rival. But they fear Trump's public praise for Vladimir Putin will encourage Russia to expand its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, an ally of Iran and an enemy of most Gulf Arab states.
Apart from a commitment to Israel's security, a constant in U.S. foreign policy, and an isolationist tone to his comments, much in Trump's statements about the region remains vague and poorly thought out, diplomats and analysts say.
Opinion is divided about whether Trump's remarks on the campaign trail will be enacted when in office. Among these is his comment that he would consider halting U.S. purchases of Saudi oil unless Riyadh provides troops to fight Islamic State.
Faisal Al Yafai, a commentator at The National newspaper, said many people thought Trump had used his extravagant comments to win votes and once in office he would mellow.
"I am unconvinced. I think he actually believes his rhetoric. It's quite worrying that he doesn’t seem to understand how global politics works," he said. "For example you don’t go around saying 'if our allies were threatened we wouldn't intervene, why can't they build their own nuclear weapons?'"
"That sort of stuff doesn’t help confidence. That collapse of confidence between the U.S. and its allies has a knock-on impact on the economies and in the decisions those countries take on a political level."
Yafai, whose newspaper is based in the United Arab Emirates, noted Iraqis were putting their lives on the line to regain  Mosul, Islamic State's main stronghold in the country. "That is not just a war for the region, it is a war for the world," he said.
Others are more sanguine.
A senior Turkish official predicted continued strong relations with the United States and argued that "comments in an election period always have a harder and more hawkish tone than is necessary. But they remain peculiar to the election period."

SAUDIS "READY TO TAKE A RISK"
Prince Sultan bin Khaled al Faisal, a former Saudi special forces officer and now senior fellow at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh, said that in U.S. elections "what they say and what they do are two totally different things".
"Foreign policy is not made by one man," he said. "But it’s difficult to pinpoint what his policy actually is."
Trump's remarks have been combative, and eye-catching. He has said the United States should be reimbursed by the countries it provides protection for.
Without America, "Saudi Arabia wouldn't exist for very long," Trump told the New York Times in March.
Trump's win drew a cautious welcome in Syria, which has entered its fifth year of war between rebels and Assad's forces.
In Damascus, Syrian member of parliament Sherif Shehada said U.S. policy could shift Assad's way. "We must be optimistic, but cautiously optimistic," Shehada told Reuters by telephone.
Trump's statements on Syria, and his more open-minded stance towards Assad's ally Russia, have fueled rebel concern about the policy he may adopt on the conflict, in which the Russian air force has been bombing insurgents.
But beyond all that, many officials and observers see another ominous consequence.
Trump’s win has not only delighted Western right-wingers but also jihadists who told supporters the election had revealed the true position of the United States towards Muslims.
"The masks have slipped," one supporter said on Islamic State websites. "(Trump's) moronic declarations alone serve us even if his decisions will be under the supervision of the Senate...," wrote another.

MUMBAI/NEW DELHI Indians struggled to pay for basics goods like food and fuel on Wednesday and fretted about their savings, after the government withdrew 500 and 1,000 rupee notes from circulation in a bid to flush out money hidden from the tax man.
The shock measure also sent shudders through the investment community on a day when the markets were also reeling at the election of Republican candidate Donald Trump as the next U.S. president.
India's National Stock Exchange share index slumped as much as 6.3 percent in early trade before recovering most losses to close the day off 1.3 percent.
The currency move, announced late on Tuesday night by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, aims to bring billions of dollars worth of unaccounted wealth into the mainstream economy and curb corruption.
The biggest disruption in decades to cash transactions, which power much of the rural economy, comes months before a series of state elections including in India's most populous Uttar Pradesh state.
Critics have warned that ordinary people who do not have access to the banking system will be hardest hit, and that Modi risks upsetting his ruling party's support base of small traders and businessmen who largely deal in cash.
It will also affect politicians running for office in a country where there is no state financing for elections and many campaigns are funded by unaccounted wealth.
"This is a pre-election disaster for political parties, the piles of cash sitting with them are worthless," said one tax official, who asked not to be named.
Modi, however, came to office in 2014 promising a war against the shadow economy that won him support from middle-class Indians who accuse elite politicians and businessmen of cheating the system.
"If elections can become cheaper as a result of this decision, it would be a good beginning," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley told a news conference.
The replacement of the old currency was also designed to stop anti-India militants suspected of using fake 500 rupee notes to fund operations.

NOT ENOUGH CASH
From midnight, the larger bank notes ceased to be legal tender for transactions other than exchanging them at banks for smaller notes.
Retailers refused to accept the bills, worth around $7.50 and $15 respectively, and people were unable to access ATMs after banks closed them down.
Deepak Urs, a staff trainer at a financial services company in India's southern tech hub of Bengaluru, said he would need to take time off work to exchange his old notes.
"Once the ATMs start operating, there will be long queues," he said. "Maybe tomorrow onwards, every two, three weeks, I will have to go the ATM or bank to get cash."
India's "black economy," a term widely used to describe transactions that take place outside formal channels, amounted to around 20 percent of gross domestic product, according to investment firm Ambit.
New bills of 500 and 2,000 rupees will be introduced from Nov. 10. Jaitley said it would take two to three weeks to replace the old notes, amid concerns over the availability of cash.

POLICE ON ALERT
Deepak Chhatoi, a salesman at a car varnishing store in Mumbai, said he had to turn away customers wanting to pay with larger bills, and could not buy the popular potato sandwich known as the vada pav.
"I couldn't even have breakfast this morning because there seems to be a shortage of change in the market," he said.
The extent of the impact of the measures became evident as petrol stations and hospitals also refused to accept larger denomination bank notes, even though the government had given them a waiver to continue accepting them.
Meanwhile, bank ATMs were closed and banks prepared for a flood of people seeking to exchange larger bank notes for smaller ones.
They will have to fill a form and show proof of identity to exchange no more than 4,000 rupees worth of the old notes at any bank, which is likely to cause further chaos.
Swapan Mandal, a laborer, wanted to withdraw 3,000 rupees from an ATM and send it to his family in Kolkata, in eastern India, but was unable to do so.
"I have only 500 rupees notes at home. I don't know if I will be able to send the money," he said.
A sub-inspector in New Delhi said the police commissioner had issued orders to watch for disturbances, especially at key retail outlets like petrol pumps.
"This is a sensitive time. We have to be alert," he said.

TEMPORARY GOLD RUSH
The main opposition Congress party said it supported moves to attack the shadow economy, but that withdrawing bigger denomination notes would hit the common man first.
"Modi shows how little he cares about ordinary people of this country - farmers, small shopkeepers, housewives, all thrown into utter chaos," said party leader Rahul Gandhi.
"(All the) while the real culprits sit tight on their black money stashed away abroad or in bullion or real estate."
Indians raced to turn their cash into gold, which jumped nearly 4 percent to its strongest in more than five weeks as investors sought safety following Trump's unlikely win.
India is the world's second largest gold consumer and around a third of its demand comes from the unaccounted sector.
On Tuesday night, jewelers in Mumbai kept shops open until midnight as panicked people rushed to buy gold with cash, said Kumar Jain, vice president of the Mumbai Jewelers Association.
On the stock market, real estate firms that depend on cash transactions were hit particularly hard, with DLF Ltd, India's biggest property developer, closing 17 percent lower.
But analysts said the move would prove beneficial to India in the longer term, by ushering in transparency and bringing transactions into the formal economy, and providing additional revenue for a country that has long struggled to contain its fiscal deficits.
It could also lead to easing inflation, raising the prospect of additional rate cuts from the central bank, which lowered the key repo rate by 25 basis points last month.

ANKARA Donald Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election is likely to empower hardliners in Iran who are pushing for global isolation and discourage already wary foreign investors.
Republican Trump said during the election campaign that he would abandon the nuclear deal reached between Tehran and six world powers in 2015 that curbed Iran's nuclear program in return for the removal of international sanctions.
His tough stance, in contrast to President Barack Obama's offer of an olive branch to Tehran, could serve the interests of hardliners in Iran.
"If Trump adopts hostile policies towards Iran, this will empower hardliners in Iran," a senior Iranian official told Reuters on condition of anonymity because of the political sensitivity of his comments.
A second senior Iranian official said: "Trump's victory will unite Iran's hardliners and their supporters ... It means more political pressure at home and an aggressive regional policy."
During the election campaign, Trump described Iran as the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism and dismissed the nuclear accord as "one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated."
But Trump he has frequently made contradictory statements so  foreign governments are unsure how much of his rhetoric will be translated into U.S. policy.
Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif urged him to stay committed to the Iran deal. President Hassan Rouhani said the election result would not effect Iran's policies and the nuclear accord could not be dismissed by one government.
But hardliners loyal to Iran's most powerful authority, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei -- the Revolutionary Guards (IRGC), powerful clerics and influential politicians -- had signaled their support for Trump in the past few weeks.
They are wary of any detente with the West which could imperil the Islamic Revolution, and hold influential positions in the judiciary, security forces and intelligence services.

CONCERNS ABOUT THE ECONOMY
Khamenei, whose hostility toward Washington is the glue that holds together Iran's faction-ridden leadership, has ruled out normalization of ties with the United States, which the hardliners refer to as the Great Satan.
The nuclear deal heightened hardliners' anger over the rise to power of pragmatist Rouhani, elected president in 2013 on a pledge to improve foreign relations and revive the economy.
Tension eased when Khamenei approved the deal, fearing economic hardship might cause the collapse of the establishment.
"Many Iranians and the government see the nuclear deal as the only way to get Iran out of economic isolation," said the first Iranian official. "I don't think Trump will tear up the nuclear deal."
Rouhani's failure to improve the economy despite the lifting of most sanctions in January has opened him to criticism from hardline rivals and powerful clerics.
Some Western companies had been hoping Democrat Hillary Clinton would defeat Trump in the election because of concern over the fate of the nuclear deal.
"Now with Trump's victory, even the European companies will be reluctant to invest in Iran ... in the best-case scenario they will adopt the policy of wait and see," said a senior Economy Ministry official.
The official said this would "harm the credibility of Rouhani and his economic plans."
Iran, which has a population of 80 million, was the biggest economy to rejoin the global trading and financial system since the Soviet Union broke up in 1991.
But many foreign investors are put off by obstacles to doing business in Iran such as the poor state of banks that were long outside the international financial system, the state's big role in the economy and a lack of clarity about the legal system.
Europe's largest banks have been reluctant to finance deals because they fear they could run incur financial penalties by violating U.S. sanctions that remain in force.
"With Trump's victory, major and even medium-size foreign companies, banks and other investors will be more cautious ... to invest in Iran," said Tehran-based businessman Reza Sardari.
"This will harm the economy just when we were hoping to attract foreign investors."

REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS COULD BENEFIT
Khamenei has shown he is anxious about the continuing economic difficulties and has blamed them on the government.
With Trump in the White House, the situation is likely to play into the hands of the elite Revolutionary Guards and an overseas arm, the Qods force, an Iranian security official said.
When the EU and U.S. sanctions were imposed in 2012, the Guards became involved in a wide range of industries, including energy, tourism, auto production, telecommunications and construction.
"With Trump's victory, Iran needs the Guards ... they will gain more economic and political power," the official said.
The Revolutionary Guards first secured an economic foothold after the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s when Iran's clerical rulers allowed them to invest in leading Iranian industries. Their economic influence grew after former guardsman Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected president in 2005.
Tehran could turn to the Guards for help with the economy if Western companies decide to stay away from Iran, even though foreign investors might see that as a further risk because some Guards' members and front companies are under U.S. sanctions.
"The Guards and the Qods Force are Iran's key assets in the region," said the security official. "No matter who is America's president, we will continue to support our regional allies."
Iran, the dominant Shi'ite Muslim power, supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and has dispatched teams to Syria to gather intelligence and train Syrian forces. As a rival of Sunni Saudi Arabia, Iran has fought decades of sectarian proxy wars in Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and Yemen.

PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION LOOMS
But the regional policies adopted by Iran's clerical rulers could be constrained by the country's economic problems.
"The Iranian leadership's first priority is to improve the economy," said Tehran-based analyst Saeed Leylaz.
"For a short while, there will be political nuances because of Trump's election ... but then the Iranian leadership has to focus on its own problems. They will try to avoid any confrontation."
Some insiders say Trump's election might motivate Iranians worried by the rise of hardliners to vote for Rouhani in the presidential election scheduled for May.
Others say he faces a struggle to maintain popularity if the economy does not improve soon.
"If there is no economic upswing before Iran's presidential elections, Rouhani will be accused by his hardline rivals of giving away too much on the nuclear issue and failing on the economy," said a moderate former Iranian official.
"This will make him a very weak president even if he gets re-elected."

MOSCOW Russia is ready to do its part to fully restore ties with Washington following the election of businessman Donald Trump as the next U.S. President, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday.
Trump stunned the world by defeating heavily favored rival Hillary Clinton in Tuesday's presidential election, ending eight years of Democratic rule and sending the United States on a new, uncertain path.
Among those uncertainties will be the Trump administration's future relations with Russia. Ties between Washington and Moscow have become increasingly strained over the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria, and allegations of Russian cyber attacks featured in the U.S. election campaign.
"We heard the campaign statements of the future U.S. presidential candidate about the restoration of relations between Russia and the United States," Putin said on Wednesday at a ceremony to receive credentials from new foreign ambassadors.
"It is not an easy path, but we are ready to do our part and do everything to return Russian and American relations to a stable path of development," he added.
"This would be good for both the Russian and American people and have a positive impact on the climate of world affairs."
Trump is widely viewed as friendly to the Kremlin and Putin has said previously his future counterpart is a talented and colorful character.
The Kremlin said earlier on Wednesday Russia hoped coordination with the United States over the war in Syria, where the two countries back opposing sides, would improve under the new U.S. president.

BRUSSELS The European Union voiced grave concern about Turkey's crackdown on opponents since a failed July coup in a highly critical report on Wednesday that made clear that Ankara's prospects of joining the bloc have become ever more distant.
Turkey has rolled back the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and other fundamental democratic standards since the coup attempt, the EU said in its most hard-hitting  annual report on the country's long-running membership bid.
"The coup attempt of July 15 was an attack on democracy per se. Given the seriousness of the situation, a swift reaction to the threat was legitimate," the EU's top enlargement official, Johannes Hahn, said.
"However, the large scale and collective nature of measures taken over the last months raise very serious concerns.
"Turkey as a candidate country must fulfill the highest standards in the field of the rule of law and fundamental rights. In this year's report we therefore stress Turkey's backsliding in the area of rule of law and fundamental rights."
The report risks further damaging the EU's relations with a country it is relying on to restrict the flow of migrants and refugees from Syria and elsewhere.
Turkey's minister for EU Affairs dismissed the report as "far from constructive" and said that parts of it lacked objectivity.
"The report does not serve to benefit EU-Turkey ties," Omer Celik told a news conference in Ankara, adding the bloc now lacks the vision of its founders. "Stronger bridges need to be built between the EU and Turkey."
Earlier, President Tayyip Erdogan showed his frustration with the long stalemate over membership, saying the EU should take its final decision on Turkey's application quickly.
"Reassess it, but do not delay in reassessing it. Make your final decision," Erdogan said in a televised speech.

"SERIOUS QUESTIONS"
The post-coup crackdown, which has seen more than 110,000 soldiers, judges, teachers, journalists and others detained, dismissed or suspended, has shocked the EU as it tries to work with Ankara on migration and countering terrorism.
The EU has stepped up its criticism of Ankara since its arrest of prominent Kurdish lawmakers last week, and it said it would be Erdogan's fault if Turkey failed to meet criteria for a promised removal of visa requirements for visiting Europe.
The report said Turkey's anti-terror laws were being applied too broadly. "The measures taken since July... raise a number of very serious questions going to the heart of the rule of law," Hahn said.
"These various actions, including considerations on reintroducing the death penalty, seem to be increasingly incompatible with Turkey's official desire to become a member of the EU. It's time Ankara tells us what they really want."
However, Celik said the report's criticisms on Turkey's judiciary and basic rights was "far from objective". He also rejected that Turkey used disproportionate force in the crackdown following the July 15 coup.
In a separate interview with Reuters, Hahn said Turkey's EU candidacy was hanging in the balance.
Luxembourg and Austria, as well as some European lawmakers called on the bloc to halt membership talks with Turkey or punish it with other sanctions.
But Germany, the bloc's top power, opposes sanctions now and Chancellor Angela Merkel was a key driving force behind a March migration deal with Ankara that cut arrivals of refugees and migrants to Europe via Greece to a trickle after a mass and uncontrolled influx last year.

MEXICO CITY Mexico was pitched into deep uncertainty by Donald Trump's U.S. election victory on Tuesday after a bitterly divisive campaign, raising the prospect of major clashes over trade, immigration and security.
The peso currency suffered its biggest fall in 22 years on fears Trump will stick to a campaign pledge to rewrite or dump a free trade treaty he says is loaded in Mexico's favor. Investors worry a trade fight could tip Mexico's economy into recession.
The Republican candidate has threatened to deport millions of undocumented Mexican migrants, many of whom he described as rapists and drug runners, and to keep others out by building a massive border wall he says Mexico will pay for.
Watching in homes and bars around the country as the New York real estate tycoon extended his lead over Democrat Hillary Clinton in one U.S. state after another, many Mexicans were gripped by disbelief and fear.
"We have to start saving for that wall," said Rafael Garnica, a 29-year-old Mexico City technology entrepreneur. "It's not just Trump that frightens me, it's that he represents a huge amount of people in the United States."
On Twitter, some Mexicans urged their government to seek dialogue with Trump, while others said they feared a rupture of ties with the United States.
"Trump's victory is the antithesis of the fall of the Berlin Wall," tweeted Fernando Belaunzaran, a politician for the center-left Party of the Democratic Revolution.
Trump's victory coincided with the anniversary of the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall.
Trump has proposed blocking billions of dollars in remittances sent home by Mexicans working in the United States to make Mexico pay for his border wall.
Pena Nieto, who likened Trump's rhetoric to that of Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, has dismissed the idea out of hand and his foreign minister reiterated on Wednesday the country had no intention of paying.
On the campaign trail, Trump relentlessly attacked the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Mexico, Canada and the United States as the "worst deal ever", vowing to scrap it if he cannot renegotiate it.
NAFTA has been a cornerstone of Mexican economic policy since it took effect in 1994.
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said in a news conference on Wednesday that uncertainty and volatility had increased since Trump's win, but that there was no immediate impact on trade rules between the two countries.
Some business leaders say the U.S and Mexican economies are now so closely integrated it is impossible to take steps against one without damaging the other.
"We will be facing months of volatility and uncertainty while the new government in Washington takes office and we see whether Mr. Trump is able to make good on his unfortunate campaign promises and rhetoric," said Andres Rozental, a former Mexican deputy foreign minister.
Mexican officials hope to diversify export markets to try to reduce the country's dependence on U.S. consumers, and Pena Nieto has said he would work with the winner of the election.
He was pilloried at home for inviting Trump to Mexico in late August in an effort to create some leverage for his government in case the businessman won.
Trump softened his tone on the brief stopover he made to meet Pena Nieto, telling a news conference it was important to keep manufacturing in North America and describing Mexican-Americans as "spectacular, hard-working people."
But within hours of his departure, he and Pena Nieto got into a Twitter feud over who would pay for the wall.
After Trump's victory, Pena Nieto said on Twitter he was ready to work with him, calling the neighboring countries friends who "should continue to work together for the competitiveness and development of North America".

COOPERATION FEARS
Under NAFTA, four out of every five dollars made by Mexican exporters has come from the United States, and bilateral trade is now worth about half a trillion dollars annually.
Trump has threatened to levy tariffs of up to 35 percent on Mexican-made goods, sparking fears of a massive hit to trade, especially in Mexico's northern border regions.
The U.S. president has the power to rescind NAFTA but policymakers on both sides of the border consulted by Reuters said Trump would come under heavy pressure from Congress and business leaders not to wreck trade.
Some Mexicans whose livelihoods are linked to the trade ties between the two countries also expressed hope that Trump's bark would be worse than his bite.
"We'll have to see, because there's no certainty that he's going to do everything that his campaign has been saying," said Jonathan Bolaños, night receptionist at the Hotel Fiesta Inn, based in an industrial park in the border city of Nogales. "It's true he was very aggressive, very tough, but sometimes people have to act that way to reach positions requiring charisma."
Still, Mexican officials say Trump's hard line on trade blurs with his radical stance on immigration.
"Trump's wall isn't just a message to Mexico about migrants. It's about imports too," said a senior Mexican government security official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Friction over trade could put bilateral cooperation over security, the fight against drug trafficking and curbing illegal migration under strain, which U.S. and Mexican officials say has improved steadily under Pena Nieto and President Barack Obama.
Mexico's ambassador to Washington, Carlos Sada, said at an event in Los Angeles last month that Trump had dealt a blow to the United States' image south of the border and stirred up historic resentment.
Alongside him, the U.S. ambassador to Mexico, Roberta Jacobson, joked about how Trump's campaign had also made life difficult for U.S. diplomats south of the border.
"I thought about just hiding until November 9th," she said.    "The overwhelming, universal reaction to the Trump visit itself, and even to a lot in the election campaign, has been 'What the ... fff ... you know?'"
"But the more concerning response, the much deeper response has been: 'We're afraid it won't go back to normal after this.'"

PARIS France's far-right National Front party leader Marine Le Pen congratulated Donald Trump for his U.S. presidential election victory on Wednesday and said she hoped the same kind of upset would happen in France next year.
"Congratulations to the new president of the United States Donald Trump and to the free American people!" Le Pen, who will compete in France's presidential election six months from now, said on Twitter.
"What happened last night was not the end of the world, it was the end of a world," she later told reporters. "The Americans gave themselves a president of their choosing and not the one that the establishment wanted them to rubber-stamp."
Opinion polls show Le Pen likely to win the first round of French presidential elections next April but lose the second runoff round in May to whoever should be her opponent.
Her father Jean-Marie Le Pen, the party founder who reached the second round of French presidential elections in 2002, tweeted: "Today the United States, tomorrow France."
France's National Front has been building support for its anti-immigration, anti-European Union stance in recent years.
Marine Le Pen argued that Trump's victory is part of a much wider revolt by voters against political elites worldwide, not only in France.

NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Kenyan teachers want the government to ban a chain of low-cost private primary and nursery schools, backed by Microsoft's Bill Gates and Britain's aid budget, after it faced criticism from a court in neighboring Uganda for hiring unlicensed teachers.
Uganda's high court on Friday ordered Bridge International Academies (BIA) to close 63 schools in the country for operating without a license, having poor sanitation and for using unregistered and unlicensed teachers, the judgment said.
The company, founded by an American couple, started working in Uganda in 2015 after opening 405 schools in Kenya since 2009 that use an 'Academy in a box' model in which teachers read lessons from a tablet computer.
However, the fast-growing company has faced opposition from teachers unions in Kenya and Uganda, where it often hires staff who have not undergone government training to read scripted lessons, delivered via the internet.
"These academies should not be allowed to operate anywhere in third world countries," said Wilson Sossion, secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Teachers, adding that his union will release a report criticizing BIA in December.
"We want to believe that will open the eyes of the government of Kenya to move a step further to close down Bridge schools."
Kenyan government officials were not immediately available for comment.
Low-cost private schools are expanding across the region, particularly in unplanned slums where there are not enough government schools.
Last year, the United Nations adopted an ambitious set of development goals, pledging to leave no one behind, including the 57 million children around the world who are not in primary school - most of them in Africa.
BIA, which aims to reach 10 million students by 2025, targets families that live on $2 per person per day, keeping its costs down through technology, standardized content and scale among other factors.
Tuition fees in Uganda range from 54,000 shillings ($15) to 108,000 shillings ($30) per term, depending on age and location.

GHOST TEACHERS
BIA has filed documents to appeal the Ugandan ruling, citing its adherence to government standards, BIA's Expansion Director in Uganda, Andrew White, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Bridge is being singled out by other vested interests who fear the innovation and changes that Bridge could bring to the education sector," White said.
Rates of teacher absenteeism are more than 25 percent in Kenya and Uganda and large sums are lost through the payment of 'ghost' teachers who do not exist, a 2013 report by anti-corruption watchdog Transparency International said.
With BIA's tech-based approach, teachers have to log in and out each day, cutting absenteeism to below two percent, White said.
"A teacher cannot be absent in our class," he said. "A ghost can't log in and can't log out."
BIA's entrepreneurial approach has won it financial backing from Mark Zuckerberg and Pierre Omidyar, the wealthy founders of Facebook and eBay, as well as the World Bank's private sector arm, the International Finance Corporation.
But increased foreign investment in private sector schools, has been controversial, with campaigners calling for a greater focus on the right to free quality public education.
Britain's Department for International Development (DFID) has come under fire for investing $7.1 million of taxpayers' money in BIA through its development finance arm, CDC, and the venture capital firm Novastar.
The U.N. Committee on the Rights of the Child criticized DFID's funding of private schools in July, saying it could contribute to substandard education and leave behind children who cannot afford even low-fee schools.
"Our priority is to ensure children in the world's poorest countries get the education they deserve, regardless of whether the school is public or private," a DFID spokesman said.
"When state provision is not delivering for the poorest, we work with low-cost privately run schools to provide an education to children who would otherwise get none."
($1 = 3,520.0000 Ugandan shillings)

MEXICO CITY Mexico's foreign minister said on Wednesday the country's government would not pay for a wall along the U.S. border promised by president-elect Donald Trump.
"Paying for a wall is not part of our vision," foreign minister Claudia Ruiz Massieu told local television.
As part of his campaign, Trump vowed that he would build a massive border wall and make Mexico pay for it.
Ruiz Massieu said that the government had maintained communication with Trump's campaign team ever since his visit to Mexico in August.
"There has been a fluid, daily communication with different members of the campaign," she said.

KIEV Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said he hoped the United States would continue to support Ukraine in its stand-off with Russia following the victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential election.
"The President looks forward to a continuation of U.S support in two important areas: Ukraine's fight against Russian aggression ... and also assistance in the realization of major reforms," Poroshenko was quoted as saying in a statement on Wednesday.

OTTAWA Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Wednesday congratulated Donald Trump on winning the U.S. presidency and stressed the close friendship and ties between the two nations.
Trudeau said in a statement that he looked forward to working very closely with Trump and his administration on trade, investment, international peace and security.


JAKARTA/ISLAMABAD/CAIRO Many Muslims around the world expressed dismay on Wednesday at Donald Trump's election as U.S. president, saying they feared it might raise tensions between the West and Islam and contribute to radicalization.
While Egypt's president made an early congratulatory call to Trump, ordinary Muslims were worried that his victory would be a propaganda gift to jihadist groups. Others were apprehensive that the president-elect will implement campaign pledges to clamp down on Muslims entering the United States.
"Trump has espoused highly inflammatory rhetoric against Muslims. Voters there will expect him to fulfill his promises. That makes me worry about the impact on Muslims in the U.S. and in the rest of the world," said Yenny Wahid, a prominent mainstream Muslim figure in Indonesia.
The world's 1.6 billion Muslims follow a multitude of sects and schools of thought, constitute a majority of the population in countries as varied as Indonesia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Senegal and Albania, and hold a vast array of political views.
Yet Trump's previous comments about Muslims, that those from abroad should be barred entry or intensely scrutinized beforehand, and the presence of vocal anti-Islam activists among his supporters, has alarmed many.
During a bitter election campaign, Trump also attacked his opponents for what he characterized as their denial about the threat posed by militant Islam, which he said was "coming to our shores", adding that he would quickly form a commission on it.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi was the first world leader to congratulate Trump on the phone, Sisi's office said.
Many other Egyptians also welcomed his victory, saying his opponent Hillary Clinton's record in office had won her few friends in the most populous Arab country.
Clinton, Secretary of State during the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings, is unpopular with many Egyptians. Many of those who backed the revolt saw her as a long-standing supporter of Hosni Mubarak, the autocrat they toppled from power.
But elsewhere, other Muslims saw Trump as a hostile figure.
"Whatever happens to America affects everybody and with all these promises of doom by Trump to the blacks, to the Muslims, the minority, so it's not something we're happy about," said Ganiu Olukanga, a Muslim resident of the Nigerian capital Lagos.
Some Muslims, including Wahid, said they feared his election as president might encourage a view that the United States held enmity for Muslims and that this would hinder efforts in Islam to counter radicalization.
"Trump's victory will be an enormous gift to a failing jihadist movement, that will have now have a renewed rallying cry," said Ammar Rashid, an academic and member of Pakistan's Awami Workers Party on Twitter.
"If jihadi ideology has a source of sustenance, it is the image of the US as the evil anti-Muslim crusader. They will milk Trump's win dry," he added.
In jihadist social media forums, militants said Trump's election had merely revealed the true position of the United States toward Muslims. "The masks have slipped," one wrote.
But some other Muslims were more hopeful, including Umer Daudzai, former Afghan minister of interior, citing the record of Ronald Reagan who was U.S. president from 1981-89. "Ronald Reagan ended the Cold War. I hope Donald Trump will end all wars and become hero of peace in the world," he told Reuters.

"NEGATIVE, CYNICAL"
Among some officials, there were also expressions of concern but the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the body that represents Muslim states, issued no statement early on Wednesday.
In Indonesia, the most populous Muslim nation, an official from the faith's top clerical body there said Trump's election could create new tension between the United States and the Islamic world.
    Trump had made "negative, cynical" comments about Muslims in the past, Din Syamsuddin, a senior official at the Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI), told reporters in Jakarta. "He had forgotten that many Americans are immigrants."
Saudi Arabia, a U.S. ally that is both birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest places, issued a statement that it had congratulated Trump on his election win without making further comment.
However, Awad al-Qirni, one of its most popular clerics with a Twitter following of two million, said in a social media post after the election - but without referring to Trump directly - that "America declines into collapse" and that "its internal crisis will grow severely".
In Pakistan, Sherry Rehman, a senator and former ambassador to Washington, said Trump's proposal last year to bar Muslims from entering the U.S. had disturbed many.
"Pakistan obviously cannot rule out engaging with whomever America elects but his anti-Muslim rhetoric may cast a shadow on relations in times of uncertainty," he told Reuters on Wednesday.
And in Bangladesh, a government official who asked not to be named said: "I can't think what awaits us. Donald Trump was talking about fighting against Muslims. Are we going to see more wars?"
Among private citizens in Dhaka, some said they hoped the pressure of office would temper Trump's views.
"It is just unbelievable and I am a bit tense. I hope there will be a difference between Donald Trump and President Donald Trump. President Trump will be more mature than individual Trump," Asif Iqbal, a private sector employee, said.

ADEN Yemeni troops loyal to President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi's government killed at least 30 suspected al Qaeda militants in a raid backed by a Saudi-led military coalition, the Yemeni military said on Wednesday.
Four soldiers were also killed in the operation on Tuesday at a farm west of Mukalla, the port city and capital of the province of Hadramout, the military said on its Facebook page.
The raid was supported by the Saudi-led Arab coalition that has been fighting on the side of Hadi in a war against Houthi rebels and forces loyal to former president Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Yemeni officials on Tuesday reported that six militants were killed in the raid, while four others were captured.
Al Qaeda militants took advantage of the civil war which began last year, seizing parts of southern Yemen, including Mukalla, before Yemeni government soldiers and Arab coalition troops drove them out.
The militants have since dispersed into the desert or have gone into hiding, but continue to launch occasional attacks on state officials and institutions.
The United States, which regards al Qaeda in Yemen as one of the deadliest branches of the network founded by Osama bin Laden, has used drones to hunt down leaders and elements of the militant group.


ROME Donald Trump's unexpected victory in the U.S. presidential election is likely to make it even harder for Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi to win a crucial referendum on constitutional reform set for December.
Renzi was one of the few world leaders to publicly endorse Hillary Clinton and Trump's triumph has not only put the Italian premier in a difficult diplomatic position, it has also underlined the rise of anti-elite sentiment around the world.
"This factor is weighing against Renzi because at the moment for many Italians he represents the establishment," said Roberto D'Alimonte, politics professor at Luiss University in Rome.
Renzi has said he will resign if he loses next month's ballot and was already facing fierce headwinds, with all opposition parties pitted against him and almost every opinion poll over the past two months showing the 'No' camp ahead.
However, a large number of Italians remain undecided, helping to fuel government confidence that the 'Yes' vote will eventually win and stave off a renewed bout of political uncertainty that is feared by the financial markets.
"The Trump win does show that populism continues in 2016 and suggests a 'no' vote in the Italian referendum could be stronger than we assumed," David Zahn, the head of European fixed income at U.S. fund manager Franklin Templeton, told Reuters.
The spread between Italian and German 10-year benchmark bonds was up 7.8 basis points at 1200 GMT at 154.05, the highest level since June when the closely watched gap jumped in the wake of Britain's vote to leave the European Union. [IT10DE10=TWEB]
The constitutional reform proposes drastically curbing the role of the upper house Senate, a move that Renzi says will simplify decision-making and ensure stable government. Opponents say it will make the legislative process more complicated and reduce checks and balances.

"WE ARE THE BARBARIANS!"
Italy's anti-establishment 5-Star Movement currently heads the opinion polls and its founder, Beppe Grillo, hailed Trump's victory, seeing it as a vindication of his own maverick stance.
"It is those who dare, the obstinate, the barbarians who will take the world forward. We are the barbarians! The real idiots, populists and demagogues are the journalists and the establishment intellectuals," Grillo wrote on his blog.
Jumping on the U.S. election bandwagon with an eye to the forthcoming referendum, former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia (Go Italy!) party put out Tweets saying "In America, they voted NO".
The group's parliamentary leader Renato Brunetta called on Renzi to resign immediately and not even wait until Dec. 4, saying his pro-Clinton stance had weakened Italy's standing.
"From this day forward Matteo Renzi is politically finished, he is a dead man walking," Brunetta said in a statement. "No other European country sided with one of the two contenders like Italy did. Now Renzi must reap the consequences and take responsibility for his bad choices."
Renzi himself offered Trump his congratulations and said Italy's relations with the United States, its NATO ally, were "solid".
The new U.S. president is due to visit Italy next May when the country hosts the 2017 summit of Group of Seven leaders.

JERUSALEM Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed confidence on Wednesday that he and newly elected U.S. President Donald Trump can work together to bring U.S.-Israeli relations to "new heights".
In a statement congratulating the Republican candidate, Netanyahu said: "President-elect Trump is a true friend of the State of Israel, and I look forward to working with him to advance security, stability and peace in our region."
"I am confident that President-elect Trump and I will continue to strengthen the unique alliance between our two countries and bring it to ever greater heights," said the right-wing leader, who has had a rocky relationship with outgoing Democratic President Barack Obama.

THE HAGUE Dutch far-right politician Geert Wilders said Donald Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election was a sign that the West was living through a "patriotic spring" that would boost support for populist parties in Europe like his own.
Wilders, whose anti-immigration, anti-Muslim Freedom Party tops polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections, said mainstream politicians had lost the trust of voters in the West by ignoring the issues they cared most about.
"Trump winning proved to me that people are fed up with politically correct politicians who are concerned and involved with issues that regard themselves but not those that are important to the public," he said.

BEIJING Chinese President Xi Jinping congratulated Donald Trump on winning the U.S. presidency, state TV reported on Wednesday, telling him the two biggest economies in the world shared responsibility for promoting global development and prosperity.
"I place great importance on the China-U.S. relationship, and look forward to working with you to uphold the principles of non-conflict, non-confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation," Xi told Trump in a message. State TV did not specify how the message was delivered.
The stable and healthy long-term development of Sino-U.S. relations was in the fundamental interest of the Chinese and American peoples, he said.
Trump, a real estate developer and reality TV host, stunned the world on Tuesday by defeating heavily favored rival Hillary Clinton, sending stocks and the U.S. dollar tumbling.
On the campaign trail, Trump vowed to take on China and tax Chinese imports to stop currency devaluation.
(This version of the story was corrected to change telephone call to message)

WASHINGTON Donald Trump's election as president raises the prospect the United States will pull out of the nuclear pact it signed last year with Iran, alienating Washington from its allies and potentially freeing Iran to act on its ambitions.
Outgoing President Barack Obama's administration touted the deal, a legacy foreign policy achievement, as a way to suspend Tehran's suspected drive to develop atomic weapons. In return Obama, a Democrat, agreed to a lifting of most sanctions.
The deal, harshly opposed by Republicans in Congress, was reached as a political commitment rather than a treaty ratified by lawmakers, making it vulnerable to a new U.S. president, such as Trump, who might disagree with its terms.
A Republican, Trump ran for the White House opposing the deal but contradictory statements made it unclear how he would act. In an upset over Democrat Hillary Clinton, Trump won on Tuesday and will succeed Obama on Jan. 20.
A businessman-turned-politician who has never held public office, Trump called the nuclear pact a "disaster" and "the worst deal ever negotiated" during his campaign and said it could lead to a "nuclear holocaust."
In a speech to the pro-Israel lobby group AIPAC in March, Trump declared that his “Number-One priority” would be to “dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran.”
He said he would have negotiated a better deal, with longer restrictions, but somewhat paradoxically, he criticized remaining U.S. sanctions that prevent American companies from dealing with Iran.
By contrast, he has conceded it would be hard to destroy a deal enshrined in a United Nations resolution. In August 2015, he said he would not “rip up” the nuclear deal, but that he would “police that contract so tough they don’t have a chance.”
Iran denies ever having considered developing atomic weapons. But experts said any U.S. violation of the deal would allow Iran also to pull back from its commitments to curb nuclear development.
Those commitments include reducing the number of its centrifuges by two-thirds, capping its level of uranium enrichment well below the level needed for bomb-grade material, reducing its enriched uranium stockpile from around 10,000 kg to 300 kg for 15 years, and submitting to international inspections to verify its compliance.

'DIVISIVE DEAL'
“Say goodbye to the Iran deal,” said Richard Nephew, a former U.S. negotiator with Iran now at Columbia University.
“There is very little likelihood that it stays, either because of a deliberate decision to tear it up by Trump, or steps that the U.S. takes which prompt an Iranian walk back.”
The spokesman of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, Behrouz Kamalvandi, was quoted as saying by Tasnim news agency: "Iran is prepared for any change," adding that Iran would try to stand by the deal.
The nuclear deal was divisive in Iran, with hardliners opposed to better relations with the West arguing that pragmatist President Hassan Rouhani was giving up too much of the country’s nuclear infrastructure for too little relief.
Rouhani said on Wednesday the U.S. election results would have no effect on Tehran's policies, state news agency IRNA quoted him as saying. [nL8N1DA46H]
Some of Washington’s closest Middle East allies have been skeptical of the nuclear deal. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been outright hostile. Gulf leaders say the deal has emboldened Iran's pursuit of regional hegemony in part through support for proxy groups fueling regional conflicts.
Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, whose power supersedes that of Rouhani, regularly criticizes the United States and says it should not be trusted, but ultimately assented to the terms of the deal, known by its acronym JCPOA.

KHAMENEI BIG WINNER
“The big winner in the aftermath of a Trump victory is Iran’s Supreme Leader,” said Suzanne Maloney, a foreign policy expert at the Brookings Institution.
“He will have the most cartoonish American enemy, he will exult in the (hopefully brief) crash of the American economy, and he will be able to walk away from Iran’s obligations under the JCPOA while pinning the responsibility on Washington.”
Further complicating any Trump effort to renegotiate the deal is that it is a multilateral agreement involving U.S. allies in Europe as well as fellow world powers Russia and China. European and Asian firms have been returning to Iran and making major investments there, meaning the United States would likely be alone in pulling out of the deal, possibly isolating it from its partners.
On Wednesday, the head of gas, renewables and power for French oil and gas company Total TOTF.PA in Iran said Trump's election would have no impact on investments [nP6N1CW004].
Khamenei has already promised to “set fire” to the nuclear deal if the West violates it. Iran has repeatedly complained it has not received benefits promised. Though European companies have been eager to explore business prospects in Iran, few deals have been enacted in part because European banks have been reluctant to finance deals involving Iran.
“As to whether he can negotiate a ‘better’ deal, it takes two (or seven) sides to agree to begin that process, something I rate as highly unlikely,” said Zachary Goldman, executive director of the Center on Law and Security at New York University and a former U.S. Treasury official.
“And if we walk away from the deal I think we will be in the worst of all worlds - Iran will feel freed from its commitments and we may be blamed for the deal falling apart.”

PARIS Europe must not flinch in defending its interests and people now that Donald Trump's election win has added to the uncertainty created by Britain's decision to exit the European Union, France's foreign minister said on Wednesday.
France is a key American ally, and its officials had in recent weeks openly endorsed Hillary Clinton for U.S. president and warned that Trump's "confused" foreign policy objectives were alarming for the rest of the world.
"We have to meet the challenge for a Europe that must be able to better defend its citizens and its interests," Ayrault told France 2 television.
"Europe cannot blink after Brexit, after the election of Donald Trump with all the questions being raised, Europe must stand together more, be more active and go more on the offensive even if it is just to protect itself."
President Francois Hollande, who has yet to announce whether he will run for a second term in next year's French presidential election, said Paris wanted to immediately begin talks with Trump to clarify his stance on key international affairs.
"This American election opens a period of uncertainty," the Socialist president told reporters. "In the context we need a strong France and a united Europe capable of expressing and carrying out its policy everywhere where its values and interests are put into question."
Trump's campaign was marked by insults and inflammatory rhetoric with regard to radical Islam, while on international affairs he has brought into question U.S. policy on everything from Syria to Iran, Mexico and North Korea.
France, which vies with Britain for status as the world's fifth largest economy, has itself been reeling in the wake of several deadly attacks claimed by Islamic State militants since last year.
Trump's comment in July that "France is no longer France", and that if it had looser gun laws then the attacks would not have happened, upset French officials.
"The U.S. is a vital partner for France and what's at stake is peace, the fight against terrorism, the situation in the Middle East, economic relations and the preservation of the planet," said Hollande. "On all these levels, I will begin immediately discussions with the new American administration, but I will do it with vigilance and frankness."

NO IMPOTENCE OR WEAKNESS
With just six months to go before France goes to the polls, likely conservative candidates also sought to stress the importance of a stronger France and more united Europe.
Former president Nicolas Sarkozy, who is trailing rival Alain Juppe in opinion polls as they campaign for the conservative presidential ticket, said France must tackle the new world order head on.
He said it was clear that with Trump now joining Russia's Vladimir Putin and China's Xi Jinping as leaders determined to defend their country's interests, France could no longer sit passively on the sidelines and blindly accept the impact of globalization, immigration and Islamist militancy.
"Times will be tough. France must play its role to re-establish authority. My belief is that there will be no place for impotency, weakness or surrender," Sarkozy told reporters.
Juppe, a former prime minister, said it was too early to give a view on Trump in light of the U.S. Republican's contradictory comments especially with regard to France and Europe, which he "appears to know pretty badly".
"It forces us to reorganize ourselves because the United States will defend its interests so we will need to defend ours, those of France and Europe, so in a way the ball is in our court," Juppe said.

VATICAN CITY The Catholic Church's highest-ranking diplomat wished U.S. President-elect Donald Trump well on Wednesday, saying he would pray for the new incumbent to be "enlightened".
"We wish the new president well, that he may have a truly fruitful government," Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin told the papal state's radio station.
"We pledge to pray that God enlightens him and supports him in the service of his country of course, but also in the service of wellbeing and peace in the world. I think today everyone needs to work to change the global situation, which is one of deep laceration and serious conflict."
Earlier this year, Pope Francis suggested Donald Trump was "not Christian" because of his stance on immigration. A papal spokesman later said this was not a personal attack on the Republican party candidate.

KABUL The Afghan Taliban on Wednesday called on U.S. president-elect Donald Trump to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan.
"Our message is that the Americans should draft a policy not to take away the independence and sovereignty of other nations.     Most importantly they should withdraw all their troops from Afghanistan," the Taliban said in a statement in reaction to Trump's surprise election win.

LONDON London's Fire Brigade said on Wednesday they had been called to reports of a smell of burning on a parked aircraft at Heathrow Airport but there was no fire, contrary to a newspaper report on Twitter.
The Sun newspaper had said in a tweet firefighters had been called to reports of a fire on a British Airways plane at the airport.
A spokeswoman for the fire brigade said there was no fire nor were there any crew or passengers on board the plane. But firefighters were on the scene standing by. No details of the plane were immediately available.

BERLIN Germany should act as a "bridge-builder" to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and help clear up unanswered questions about his views on conflicts in Iraq, Syria and U.S. ties to Europe, Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday.
Von der Leyen, asked whether she feared that the United States under Trump could weaken its support for Europe or Germany in the face of a heightened threat from Russia, told Reuters that she expected Washington to stick to its longstanding commitment to trans-Atlantic ties.
"Our expectation is that the American commitment to that friendship will continue unabated," she said. "My wish is that we find a common basis for understanding because the problems    are big enough and we must tackle them together."

LONDON Police said there had been fatalities after a tram overturned in Croydon, south London, on Wednesday.
"A number of people have been taken to hospital with injuries and sadly it looks as though there has been some loss of life," British Transport Police said on its website.
"It is too early for us to confirm numbers but we are working hard to assess the ongoing incident and we are continuing to focus on recovery efforts."


MOSCOW Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday relations with Poland were unsatisfactory but Russia was ready to try and restore a dialogue with Warsaw.

BEIRUT Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday that the U.S.  election results would have no effect on Tehran's policies, state news agency IRNA quoted him as saying, noting that Iran's expanding economic ties with the world were irreversible.
"The results of the U.S. election have no effect on the policies of the Islamic Republic of Iran," Rouhani said.
"Iran's policy for constructive engagement with the world and the lifting of nuclear-related sanctions have made our economic relations with all countries expanding and irreversible."
He added that Iran's nuclear deal with six world powers has been reflected in a United Nation Security Council resolution and cannot be dismissed by one government.

MOSCOW Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday he hoped Montenegro would pursue a balanced foreign policy and maintain ties with Russia.

LONDON Britain's Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, who has previously criticized U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, congratulated him on his victory on Wednesday and said he looked forward to continuing the partnership between the two nations.
"I believe passionately in the importance of the UK - US relationship and am confident we can take it forward together," Johnson, who was formerly mayor of London, said on his Twitter feed.
Last year, Johnson said that he feared going to New York because of "the real risk of meeting Donald Trump" after the billionaire said parts of London were now so radicalised they could no longer be policed by officers, who feared for their lives.

ISTANBUL Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Wednesday he hoped for an improvement in ties with the United States after Donald Trump's election victory, and called for the extradition of the U.S.-based cleric Turkey blames for a failed July coup.
President Tayyip Erdogan, whose relations with outgoing U.S. President Barack Obama have at times been strained, meanwhile said he hoped Trump's victory would lead to "beneficial steps" for the Middle East and for basic rights and freedoms.
Turkey has been frustrated by what it sees as Washington's reluctance to hand over cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom it accuses of masterminding an abortive putsch four months ago and who has lived in exile in Pennsylvania since 1999.
"An area of opportunity has been created for the new president to advance relations with policies taking into account Turkey's fight against terror," Yildirim said in a speech broadcast on Turkish television.
"A new page will be opened for Turkish-U.S. friendship if you soon hand over the terror group leader who has harmed the friendship between the U.S. and Turkey," he said, in reference to Gulen. The cleric denies involvement in July's failed coup.
Turkey, a NATO member and sometimes fractious ally in the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State, has also been angered by U.S. support for the Kurdish YPG militia in Syria, which it sees as a hostile force linked to Kurdish militants who have fought the Turkish state for more than three decades.
A senior Turkish official told Reuters that statements from Trump indicating he would withdraw support from "terror groups" was critically important for Turkey.
"We expect the development of better relations in the period ahead," the official said. "It is a positive development in itself that the United States will put a distance between itself and terror groups like the YPG, and it will be an important step for establishing healthier balances in the Middle East."
Erdogan made only brief reference to the U.S. election result at the end of a speech to a business forum in Istanbul.
"I hope that this choice of the American people will lead to beneficial steps being taken for the world concerning basic rights and freedoms, democracy and developments in our region," he said.

ATHENS Greece's far-right Golden Dawn party hailed Donald Trump's election as president of the United States, calling it a victory against "illegal immigration" and in favor of ethnically "clean" nations.
Golden Dawn, Greece's third-largest party, took its first seats in parliament in 2012 on a backlash against austerity policies in Greece, which has received three international bailouts since 2010.
"This was a victory for the forces which oppose globalization, are fighting illegal migration and are in favor of clean ethnic states, in favor of self-sufficiency in the national economy," a spokesman of the party said in a post on YouTube.
"A great global change is starting, which will continue with nationalists prevailing in Austria, Marie LePen in France and Golden Dawn in Greece."

BRUSSELS Leaders of the European Union institutions invited Donald Trump to a summit as soon as he can schedule one and cited security and trade ties as key in a letter on Wednesday congratulating him on his election as U.S. president.
"Today, it is more important than ever to strengthen transatlantic relations," wrote Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker, presidents respectively of the European Council, which groups member states, and the executive European Commission.
"Only by cooperating closely can the EU and the U.S. continue to make a difference when dealing with unprecedented challenges such as Da'esh (Islamic State), the threats to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, climate change and migration."
"Fortunately, the EU-U.S. strategic partnership is broad and deep: from our joint efforts to enhance energy security and address climate change, through EU-U.S. collaboration on facing threats to security in Europe's Eastern and Southern neighborhoods and to the negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) - we should spare no effort to ensure that the ties that bind us remain strong and durable."

ISTANBUL The European Union should make it final decision on Turkey's application to join the bloc quickly, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday, highlighting his frustration over the long  stalemate between Ankara and Brussels.
"Reassess it, but do not delay in reassessing it. Make your final decision," Erdogan said in a speech in Istanbul, which was broadcast live on television.
The European Union has recently stepped up criticism of Turkey's crackdown on opponents and alleged plotters behind a failed coup, drawing a sharp retort from Ankara, which accuses Europe of failing to grasp the threats it faces.

MOSCOW Russia will do all it can to restore trade and economic relations with the United States, Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev told Russian news agencies on Wednesday, following Donald Trump's victory in the U.S. election.

JAKARTA Donald Trump's U.S. election victory may create fresh tension between the United States and the Islamic world, an official at Indonesia's top Muslim clerical body said on Wednesday.
Trump, who once proposed a ban on Muslims entering the United States, stunned the world by defeating heavily favored Hillary Clinton in the presidential race, ending eight years of Democratic rule.
Trump had made "negative, cynical" comments about Muslims in the past, Din Syamsuddin, a senior official at the Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI), told reporters in Jakarta. "He had forgotten that many Americans are immigrants."
Indonesia has the world's largest Muslim population.

WASHINGTON U.S. President-elect Donald Trump may try to improve ties with Russia, tear up trade deals with Mexico and Pacific nations and abandon U.S. allies in Europe and Asia if they don't spend more on their own defense - or, he may not.
Foreign governments are uncertain how much of Trump's rhetoric will be translated into policy because he has frequently made contradictory statements and provided few details of how he would deal with the world or who he would appoint to key posts.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault pledged to work with Trump but said his personality "raised questions" and he admitted to being unsure what a Trump presidency would mean for key foreign policy challenges, from climate change and the West's nuclear deal with Iran to the war in Syria.
Trump, who has no foreign affairs or military experience, will confront the absence of a national or even Republican political consensus on how to deal with Syria, the Islamic State militant group, the rise of China and a newly assertive Russia.
"This is virtual terra incognita," said Aaron David Miller, a Middle East negotiator who served Democratic and Republican presidents and is now with the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington.
"The biggest danger of a Trump presidency is the unpredictability and sheer lack of stability that our allies and adversaries would feel, and he turns that into a virtue by saying that he wants to be unpredictable," he said.
Among the names said to be in consideration for top national security jobs in a Trump administration are former House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich and one-time United Nations ambassador John Bolton for secretary of state, and General Michael Flynn, a former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, for national security adviser.A Republican foreign policy expert who has occasionally counseled Trump, cautioned that he is more likely to make his own decisions and impulses than to follow the advice of his aides.
Many top Republicans have publicly repudiated him, and a number of professional diplomats, intelligence and military officers have privately said they would retire if Trump wins.
"If he does everything he says he's going to do, we can kiss goodbye our leadership role in the world," former CIA deputy director John McLaughlin told Reuters. "So let's hope he doesn't mean it or that someone talks him out of it."
Trump has suggested he could accept Japanese and South Korean nuclear arms development, abandon the Iran nuclear deal, negotiate with North Korea on its nuclear weapons program, and embrace Russian President Vladimir Putin.

GETTING ALONG WITH RUSSIA?
Trump has adopted an open-minded stance toward Putin, whom many current and former U.S. officials consider an autocrat bent on suppressing dissent at home while bullying his neighbors and projecting Russia's power abroad.
Russia has annexed Crimea from Ukraine, backed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and, according to U.S. intelligence officials, hacked  emails of prominent Democratic Party leaders and organizations.
"I would hope to have a good relationship with Russia and I would hope to have a good relationship with Putin," Trump told Reuters in an interview last month. "If we had a good relationship with Russia that would be a wonderful thing."
James Dobbins, a former U.S. diplomat now at the Rand Corp., said he would not be surprised to see an effort to "reset" U.S. relations with Russia.
Trump has taken a more aggressive tone toward China, threatening to slap tariffs on Chinese products to show Beijing the United States is "not playing games anymore" when it comes to leveling the field on trade.
China's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday it would work with Trump to ensure the steady development of bilateral ties.
Trump also says he could scrap the North American Free Trade Agreement that took effect in Mexico, the United States and Canada in 1994, and he has threatened to impose tariffs of up to 35 percent on Mexican-made goods to help U.S. industry.
Trump has taken aim at the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal championed by President Barack Obama, calling it a "death blow" for American manufacturing.

"LESS CONFLICT-AVERSE"
Trump has also floated the idea of abandoning NATO's guarantee of mutual defense, suggesting that the United States would help defend other NATO members such as the Baltic states only if they had "fulfilled their obligations to us."
Asked in March if he would object if Japan or South Korea developed their own nuclear weapons, Trump told the New York Times there might come a time that the United States could not protect them as it has in the past and they might need to develop their own arsenals.
Both positions violate bedrock principles of U.S. foreign policy that have stood for decades: that an attack on one NATO member would be regarded as an attack on all and that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is to be avoided at all costs.
Jon Alterman, the head of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank in Washington, said Trump's predilection for keeping other nations guessing could itself be a source of instability.
"Countries may feel more at risk and maybe less conflict-averse if they feel they have to protect themselves," he said.
Robert Zoellick, a former deputy secretary of state who in May signed a letter saying Trump "would be the most reckless president on American history," suggested that Trump's temperament could lead to unexpected outcomes.
"No one knows how Mr. Trump's vanity will respond if a foreign counterpart diminishes him," he wrote in the Financial Times last month.

BRUSSELS European Parliament President Martin Schulz on Wednesday said he hoped for a "rational cooperation" with Donald Trump as the next U.S. president after a bitter political campaign.
"It will not be easy because during the election campaign we heard some elements of protectionism, also some worrying words about women, about minorities," said Schulz, a German Social Democrat.
"But my experience is also that election campaigns are different from the real politics during a term of the president so I hope that we will get back to a rational cooperation," he said in televised remarks.
In a separate written statement, he highlighted need for Trump to formulate more detailed policies after a campaign that capitalized on voters' discontent with the status quo and he also listed key international policies that could be affected by the change of administration in Washington.
"Mr. Trump has managed to become the standard-bearer of the angst and fears of millions of Americans. Those concerns must now be addressed with credible policies," Schulz said. "Vitriol and polarization have fueled this electoral contest. President Trump will have the daunting task of bringing together a divided nation.
"From Syria to Iraq, from Ukraine to Libya, Trump’s role in diplomacy and dealmaking will be tested from Day One," he added.
"From the fight against global warming to its commitment to NATO, the world awaits and hopes for an outward-looking presidency aiming at shaping international relations and upholding the values of freedom and democracy."

VIENNA Austrian far-right leader Heinz-Christian Strache congratulated Donald Trump on his victory in the U.S. presidential elections on Wednesday.
"The political left as well as the aloof and sleazy establishment are being punished by voters and voted out of various decision-making positions," the head of the populist Freedom Party (FPO) said on Facebook.
The FPO hopes for its own candidate Norbert Hofer to become the European Union's first far-right head of state on Dec. 4.
Hofer, 45, an anti-immigrant EU critic hopes to succeed former Green Party leader Alexander Van der Bellen in a re-run of an annulled May election.

ISTANBUL Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim on Wednesday congratulated Donald Trump on his victory in the U.S. presidential election, saying it was an opportunity to further bilateral relations.
In a speech in the capital Ankara, Yildirim said a "new page" would be opened in U.S.-Turkey relations if Washington extradited the U.S.-based cleric Turkey blames for orchestrating the July 15 failed coup.
"An area of opportunity has been created for the new president to advance relations with policies taking into account Turkey's fight against terror," Yildirim said.


SEOUL The deployment in South Korea of the U.S. military's THAAD system, designed to counter North Korea's missile threat, will go ahead as planned under a Trump administration, the South's ruling party chief said on Wednesday, citing the defense minister.
Saenuri Party policy chief Kim Gwang-lim said plans for the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defence anti-missile system were near complete.
Kim was briefing the media after a meeting by senior party members with national security ministers, including Defence Minister Han Min-koo, to discuss the U.S. presidential election, won by Republican Donald Trump.
"THAAD is all but confirmed so it'll go ahead," Kim quoted Han as saying.
But the South Korean government was concerned Trump may make unpredictable proposals to North Korea over the isolated country's nuclear weapons program, a ruling party official said, quoting top national security officials.
A Trump spokesman said in September that North Korea's most recent nuclear test was an example of the "catastrophic failures" of his Democratic rival, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Washington and Seoul agreed to deploy the THAAD system in South Korea to protect against North Korean threats. China, North Korea's lone major ally, was angered by the decision as it feats the system's powerful radar will be able to see into its territory.
The commander of U.S. forces in South Korea said on Friday the system would be deployed to South Korea within eight to 10 months, according to an official from the U.S. forces in South Korea.

BRUSSELS EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said on Wednesday that the European Union and the United States would continue to work together following Donald Trump's election as U.S. president.
"EU-U.S. ties are deeper than any change in politics. We'll continue to work together, rediscovering the strength of Europe," Mogherini, high representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said in a tweet.
EU officials and diplomats said European governments may need to strengthen their own cooperation if a Trump administration pulls back from international commitments.


PARIS The election of Donald Trump as the United States' 45th president will make work "harder" for the European Union, the European Parliament President Martin Schulz said on Wednesday.
"It will be hard, harder than with previous administrations but he is the freely elected president," Schulz said on Europe 1 radio.
"We must respect the future president of the United States (...) I hope we will find a slot to cooperate," he said.
Republican Donald Trump stunned the world on Tuesday by defeating heavily favored Hillary Clinton in the race for the White House, ending eight years of Democratic rule.


BEIRUT The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said a U.S.-led coalition air strike killed at least 16 people overnight in a town north of Islamic State's Syrian stronghold of Raqqa.
The U.S.-led coalition said it had no information on the report by the war monitor, but would look into it.
The coalition is providing air support to the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance which includes the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia and some Arab groups, in an operation to drive Islamic State from its de facto capital in Syria.
The attack hit al-Heesha, about 40 km (25 miles) north of Raqqa, said the British-based monitor.

MOSCOW Kirill Dmitriev, the head of Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said on Wednesday he believed Donald Trump's presidential victory would reduce geopolitical confrontations.
"A less confrontational U.S. foreign policy will unlock major opportunities for joint (Russia-U.S.) trade and investment," Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said in a statement.
Dmitriev said he believed financial markets would recover quickly "just as they did after the Brexit vote."

BEIJING China said it will work with the new U.S. president to ensure the steady and sound development of bilateral ties.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang made the remarks at a regular news briefing on Wednesday as Republican Donald Trump moved to the brink of winning the White House.


BERLIN Germany's Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen described Donald Trump's gains in the U.S. presidential election as a "huge shock" on Wednesday and asked him for assurances on his commitment to NATO.
Von der Leyen told broadcaster ARD that the Republican candidate's strong showing was "not a vote for him but rather against Washington, against the establishment".
"It was a big shock when I saw the way things are heading," she said as Trump edged closer to winning the White House with a series of shocking wins in key states such as Florida and Ohio, rattling world markets.
Germany, like other European countries, was alarmed by Trump's comments earlier in the campaign that if Russia attacked a NATO member, he would consider whether the targeted country had met its defense commitments before providing military aid.
"Of course we Europeans, as a NATO ally, know that if Donald Trump becomes president, he'll ask: What are you contributing to this alliance?" von der Leyen, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, said.
"But we're also wondering, what's your position on this alliance?" she added, in the first comments from a German minister on the U.S. vote.
Von der Leyen said the German government now needed to find out know who their contact person would be in a Trump government and what campaign announcements he wanted to implement.
"There are many questions yet to be answered," she said.
Regarding Trump's pledge to "Make America Great Again", von der Leyen said that would only be possible with a strong economy and that, in turn, would only be possible if he did not create uncertainty.
"It's in our interest that the America remains prepared to take on responsibility and open to the world," she said.

YANGON Unrest in Myanmar's northwest is taking a "terrible toll" on children, the U.N. children's agency UNICEF said and called for full humanitarian access to the Muslim-majority north of Rakhine state.
Tens of thousands of people have been cut off from food and other aid normally provided by international agencies since deadly attacks on police guard posts along the border with Bangladesh on Oct. 9.
"While some aid has been delivered in recent days, UNICEF calls for full resumption of essential services and the urgent lifting of all restrictions of movement of health and other professionals so they can safely reach children and families," UNICEF said in a statement from New York on Tuesday.
Troops have poured into the region in response to the attacks, in which assailants believed to be from the mostly stateless Rohingya group killed nine policemen.
The army declared the area an "operation zone", blocked aid and barred foreign journalists and observers from the Maungdaw area. Residents and human rights monitors say extra-judicial killings, rape and arbitrary arrests have taken place.
Security forces have killed 33 alleged attackers, while five soldiers and one policeman have been killed, according to state-run media.
On Tuesday, the World Food Programme said it had begun the first deliveries of food aid in Maungdaw in more than a month, reaching about 6,500 people in four villages affected by the violence.
WFP said its assistance would normally reach 152,000 people in northern Rakhine.
The majority in the area are Rohingya Muslims, a 1.1 million strong group in Rakhine who face restrictions on their movements and access to services.
The malnutrition rate is 19 percent among children under five in Maungdaw, according to U.N. statistics.
The limited access came after a request from diplomats and the U.N.'s top official in Myanmar, who visited Maungdaw over two days last week. The delegation called for an independent investigation into alleged rights abuses and for aid programs to be allowed to resume.
U.N. officials and diplomats from Western countries privately expressed concern at the public response to the crisis from the government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, which has flatly denied allegations of abuses committed by the military.
State-run newspapers have said last week's visit by diplomats - who stressed they were not able to verify claims of rights abuses - revealed that the allegations were baseless. A key official spokesman singled out a journalist reporting allegations and said the claims were concocted by people with links to insurgents.

SEOUL South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se said on Wednesday that he believed Donald Trump would maintain the current U.S. policy of pressuring North Korea over its nuclear and missile tests, if he wins the presidential election.
"Trump has indicated that the greatest problem facing the world is the nuclear threat and members of his national security team hold the position that favor's applying strong pressure against the North," Yun said.
He made the comments in a meeting with members of parliament scheduled to discuss the results of the U.S. presidential election. The North conducted its fourth and fifth nuclear tests in January and September, drawing widespread international condemnation.
(This version of the story corrects quote)

BERLIN A senior member of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative party said on German radio on Wednesday that the German government was uncertain what Republican Donald Trump would do if he wins the U.S. presidential election.
"We're realizing now that we have no idea what this American president will do if the voice of anger enters office and the voice of anger becomes the most powerful man in the world," Norbert Roettgen, a member of Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and head of the German parliament's foreign affairs committee, said on Deutschlandfunk radio.
"Geopolitically we are in a very uncertain situation," he added.

ABUJA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The 21 Chibok schoolgirls freed by Boko Haram militants last month say they were not abused or raped during two-and-a-half years' captivity in northeast Nigeria, a source close to the presidency said on Wednesday.
Many girls kidnapped by the Islamist militant group have been used as sex slaves, fighters and even suicide bombers, according to rights groups including Amnesty International.
But the 21 freed girls said the militants treated them well while they were held captive, according to a confidential report based on their two-week debriefing prepared for President Muhammadu Buhari and seen by the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
The girls, released last month after Switzerland and the Red Cross brokered a deal, are now being held in a secret location in the capital Abuja for assessment by the Nigerian government.
State health workers confirmed that the girls were not sexually abused while in captivity, adding that they all tested negative for sexually transmitted diseases, the report said.
"The girls said the Boko Haram men always assured them that they would eventually go back home to their families, and were careful about what they said around the girls and how they treated them," said the source, who declined to be named.
"They had been fed well and regularly, until the military cut off Boko Haram supplies," the government source added.
More than 200 girls were seized from their school in April 2014 in Chibok in Borno state, where Boko Haram has waged a seven-year insurgency aimed at creating an Islamic state, killing thousands and displacing more than 2 million people.
Boko Haram has kidnapped hundreds of men, women and children but the abduction of the Chibok girls - some 200 of whom are still missing - prompted outrage worldwide and their plight was publicized using a Twitter hashtag, #bringbackourgirls.

NO FORCED MARRIAGE, CONVERSION
The daily routine for the girls, who were moved in captivity between the northeastern town of Gwoza and the Sambisa forest, a Boko Haram stronghold, involved personal time in the morning followed by Koranic teaching and cooking meals, the report said.
Most of the girls said they were held in makeshift dwellings made of zinc sheets in Sambisa, while those who were married lived with their militant husbands in camps across the forest.
The 21 recently released girls said that while the Boko Haram militants advised them to marry and convert to Islam, they were not forced into doing so, according to the report.
"The girls said that those of them who did not agree to marry were used as house girls (servants)," the source said.
The girls recognized almost all the faces of Boko Haram members on a government most-wanted list, but did not know the militants' names and never saw the Islamist group's established figurehead Abubakar Shekau, according to the source.
When shown pictures of 142 of their still missing classmates, the girls said 61 had married Boko Haram militants, eight had died during Nigerian air force strikes, three during childbirth, and one of an unknown cause, the report found.
Another Chibok girl and her 10-month-old son were discovered by troops days ago while they were screening escapees from Boko Haram's base in the Sambisa forest.
The first of the Chibok girls to be released by Boko Haram, Amina Ali, was freed in May. Ali has since been held in a house in Abuja for what the state has called a "restoration process". She said in August that she "just wanted to go home".
Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium at the start of 2015, but Nigeria's army has recaptured most of the territory. The group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast, as well as in neighboring Niger and Cameroon.

LONDON Scotland's devolved government is expected to join a legal challenge against the British government's plans to trigger an exit from the European Union, the lead claimant in the court case said on Sunday.
A British court ruled on Thursday that the government needs parliamentary approval to start the process of leaving the European Union, potentially delaying Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit plans.
The government said it would appeal against the High Court ruling and Britain's Supreme Court is expected to consider the case early next month.
"We are expecting a number of governments to join us," Gina Miller, an investment manager leading the court case against the government, told the BBC, indicating Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish devolved authorities could become involved.
"But their case will be different to ours. They will be talking about their own particular interests."
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said a decision on her government's involvement had not yet been taken.
"The Scottish government had a representative observing proceedings throughout this case and we are currently considering whether we should now seek to become participants in the appeal process," she wrote in the Observer newspaper.
A majority of people in Scotland voted to stay in the EU at the June 23 referendum, while a majority in England and Wales voted to leave, setting Britain as a whole on the path to an unprecedented divorce from its biggest trading partner and straining relations between the UK's constituent nations.
"Any decision we make will not be about thwarting the result in England and Wales ... our decision will be about how we best make sure the actions of the UK government properly respect the way in which all parts of the UK voted," Sturgeon said.

NEW DELHI The Delhi government on Sunday put all construction projects on hold, shut down schools and advised residents of the Indian capital to stay indoors as part of an "emergency" plan to deal with dangerous levels of air pollution.
New Delhi ranks among the world's most polluted cities. In the past week, a thick layer of smog has enveloped the city, with people complaining of irritated eyes, throats and lungs.
A combination of smoke from burning farm residue in surrounding states, fireworks for the Hindu festival of Diwali, dust from construction works and vehicle emissions has pushed up  levels of the most dangerous particles, known as PM 2.5, to more than 15 times the safe limit.
Hundreds of people, including children, on Sunday staged a protest in New Delhi over the worsening air quality, demanding immediate and effective steps from authorities.
New Delhi's chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, who has called the city a "gas chamber", said all construction and demolition  would remain on hold for five days and schools would be shut for three days.
He also banned the use of all diesel-powered electricity generators for the next 10 days. The local administration will start vacuum cleaning roads and sprinkling them with water, Kejriwal said.
"We all need to cooperate and work together to find a solution," he said. "The situation is such that we need to take some urgent measures."
Air quality is usually poorest in Delhi's winter months of December and January.
Authorities have responded with such measures as a ban on old trucks from entering the city and briefly trying a scheme that limited use of private vehicles to alternate days. Experts say those have done little to reduce pollution.
Kejriwal said his government was contemplating another round of restrictions on the use of private cars.

ANKARA Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan accused Europe on Sunday of abetting terrorism by supporting Kurdish militants and said he did not care if it called him a dictator.
Turkey drew international condemnation for the arrest on Friday of leaders and lawmakers from the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), the second-largest opposition grouping in parliament, as part of a terrorism investigation.
The government accuses the HDP, which made history last year by becoming the first Kurdish party to win 10 percent of the vote and enter parliament, of financing and supporting an armed Kurdish insurgency, which it denies.
The HDP announced a partial boycott of parliament on Sunday, saying it was "halting its legislative efforts" and that its deputies would stop participating in sessions of the legislature or meetings of parliamentary commissions.
The action against the HDP has heightened concern among Western allies about the state of democracy in Turkey, a NATO member which aspires to join the European Union and which is a buffer between Europe and the conflicts in Syria and Iraq.
More than 110,000 officials - from soldiers and judges to teachers and journalists - have been detained or suspended since a failed military coup in July, in what Erdogan's critics say is a crackdown on all forms of dissent.
"I don't care if they call me dictator or whatever else, it goes in one ear, out the other. What matters is what my people call me," Erdogan said in a speech at an Istanbul university, where he was receiving an honorary doctorate.
Erdogan and the government are furious at what they see as Western criticism of their fight against the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militant group, which has waged a three-decade insurgency for Kurdish autonomy and whose allied groups in Syria enjoy U.S. support in the fight against Islamic State.
Erdogan said the PKK, listed as a terrorist group by the European Union and United States, had killed almost 800 members of the security forces and more than 300 civilians since a ceasefire in the largely Kurdish southeast collapsed last year.
A PKK offshoot claimed responsibility for a car bomb in the southeastern city of Diyarbakir on Friday which killed 11 and wounded at least 100 hours after the HDP detentions, according to a website close to the militants. Islamic State had also claimed the attack, according to the group's Amaq news agency.
"Europe, as a whole, is abetting terrorism. Even though they declared the PKK a terrorist organisation, this is clear," Erdogan said. "We see how the PKK can act so freely and comfortably in Europe."
Turkey's EU Minister Omer Celik has called European ambassadors to a meeting in Ankara on Monday to brief them on the latest developments, a statement from his ministry said.

"TURN BACK WHILE YOU CAN"
HDP co-leaders Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag were jailed pending trial on Friday after refusing to give testimony in a probe linked to "terrorist propaganda". Ten other HDP lawmakers were also detained, though some were later released [nL8N1D4AVT].
The United States expressed deep concern, while Germany and Denmark summoned Turkish diplomats over the Kurdish arrests. European Parliament President Martin Schulz said the actions "call into question the basis for the sustainable relationship between the EU and Turkey".
"After discussions with our parliamentary group and our central executive board, we have decided to halt our legislative efforts in light of everything that has happened," HDP spokesman Ayhan Bilgen said in a statement read out in front of the party's offices in Diyarbakir and broadcast online.
HDP officials would consult with the party's supporters, many of whom are in the largely Kurdish southeast, and could then consider a full withdrawal from parliament, he said.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said the HDP had been funding terrorism and that "not only those bombing and burning, but also those supporting terror" would pay the price. The party's deputies would be betraying the people if they failed to attend parliament sessions, he said.
"For years, we called on you to say you are against terror and terrorist organisations. You would not listen ... For years, they transferred the money we sent for the municipalities to terror," Yildirim said in a televised speech.
"Turn back from this road while it's still possible ... Come to parliament and say what you have to say," he said.
In an earlier speech on Sunday, he vowed Turkey would pursue its campaign against all groups it considers "terrorists", including the PKK and its allies. Turkey launched a military incursion into Syria in August to push Islamic State militants from its border and stop Kurdish fighters gaining ground.
"The more we continue our fight, the more we see them squealing. No matter what they say, this battle will continue until our red crescent and starred flag waves across every province," he said.
"Let all of their supporters know this, inside and outside Turkey."

BERLIN More than three quarters of Germans believe U.S.-German ties would come under severe strain if Republican candidate Donald Trump is elected president in U.S. elections on Nov.8, a poll showed on Sunday, a fear echoed by German politicians.
Germany is the United States' largest European trading partner and the sixth largest market for U.S. exports. The two countries have had close ties since the U.S. helped to rebuild a devastated Germany after World War Two.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has been tight-lipped about Trump, despite his repeated attacks on her decision to welcome nearly one million refugees into the country last year. In September, however, he described Merkel as "a really great world leader".
But Germany's President Joachim Gauck, a former Lutheran pastor who was a anti-communist civil rights activist in the former East Germany, said he was worried.
"What causes us concern, among other things, is his unpredictability," Gauck, a former Lutheran pastor, told Spiegel Online in an interview published on Sunday. "We cannot say what could be expected from a President Donald Trump."
And plenty of other Germans agree with Gauck.
A new poll by the Emnid organization showed 77 percent of Germany feared strains in U.S.-German relations if Trump wins the election. By contrast, 67 percent said they expected Germany's close ties to the United States to remain unchanged if Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton was elected.
Among Germany's top concerns are Trump's stance on Russia and on the NATO alliance, of which Germany and the United States are both members. In July, many were shocked when he said that if Russia attacked a NATO member, he would consider whether the targeted country had met its defense commitments before providing military aid.
Norbert Roettgen, a member of Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and head of the German parliament's foreign afffairs committee, said he also saw German-U.S. relations under pressure if Trump wins.
"The election of Trump as president would put a historic burden on the German-American relationship," Roettgen told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper. "It would lead to the worst estrangement in German-U.S. relations since the Vietnam War."
But Horst Seehofer, Bavarian state premier and head of the Christian Social Union (CSU), the sister party of Merkel's CDU, said either of the candidates would be welcomed in Bavaria if they won.
"If the American people vote for a person in a democratic election, then the democrats in Germany and Bavaria must accept it," Seehofer told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper. "We can't go around acting like the headmaster of the whole world."
In the latest Washington Post-ABC Tracking Poll released early on Sunday, Clinton is leading with 48 percent, compared to Trump's 43 percent.

DHAKA Police in Bangladesh have arrested dozens of people following fresh violence against Hindus, a senior officer said on Sunday, after a spate of attacks prompted concerns the authorities were not doing enough to protect the country's biggest minority.
Hindu homes and temples in the Brahmanbairs district of eastern Bangladesh have come under attack during the last week, after a local youth allegedly shared a Facebook post that Islamic hardliners said denigrated the Masjid al-Haram — a holy site for Muslims.
Muslim hardliners protested and demanded action against the Hindu youth, who denies sharing the post. Police arrested the youth for hurting religious sentiment, but the arrest failed to defuse tension and quell the rioting.
Abu Zafar, the officer in charge of Nasir Nagar police station in the district, told reporters that so far 53 people had been arrested on suspicion of involvement in attacks and looting from Hindu homes.
Attacks on Hindus, who make up around 8 percent of the population, and other religious minorities are not uncommon in the mostly Muslim South Asian country, but the scale of the recent anti-Hindu violence is unusual.
Bangladesh's National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has launched an investigation into the attacks. The head of its fact-finding committee said the violence was the result of a "pre-planned conspiracy", and criticized local authorities for allowing the demonstrations that triggered the rioting to go ahead.
"The administration, including police, was negligent and callous in handling such a sensitive issue," the NHRC's Enamul Hoque Chowdhury told Reuters.
The violence comes amid international concern about rising Islamist militancy in Bangladesh and the growing influence of Islamic State in the country.
In July, Islamists carried out an attack on a cafe in an upscale district of the capital, Dhaka, in which 22 people were killed - mostly non-Muslims and foreigners, including one American.
The Bangladesh Hindu Buddhist Christian Unity Council (BHBCUC) estimates more than 100 Hindu houses and 17 temples have been vandalized and looted since the violence began on Oct 30.
Rana Dasgupta, general secretary at the BHBCUC, told Reuters the violence was aimed at driving people from their homes.
"The purpose of the attacks is to free this soil from the minority community and also to occupy their properties and assets," he said.

ANKARA The chief of general staff of the Turkish Armed Forces met with his U.S. counterpart in Ankara on Sunday on the request of the U.S. military, the Turkish armed forces said in a statement.
No details were given about the meeting between Hulusi Akar and Joseph Dunford, but it comes as U.S.-backed Syria Democratic Forces (SDF) said they had launched an operation to liberate the Syrian city of Raqqa from Islamic State.

ANKARA Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan accused Europe on Sunday of abetting terrorism with its support for the PKK and said he did not care if Europe called him a dictator as he cracks down on the Kurdish militant group and its sympathizers.
"Europe, as a whole, is abetting terrorism. Even though they declared the PKK a terrorist organization, this is clear ... We see how the PKK can act so freely and comfortably in Europe," Erdogan said in a televised speech.
"I don't care if they call me dictator or whatever else, it goes in one ear, out the other. What matters is what my people call me," he said.
Turkey has drawn international criticism following the detention on Friday of the leaders of the pro-Kurdish HDP, parliament's second largest opposition party, as part of a terrorism probe. The government accuses the HDP of links to the PKK, which the party denies.
Erdogan said that parliamentarians behaving as terrorists would be treated as such. He said Turkey's judiciary was independent and that nobody, including him, had the right or authority to interfere in judicial process.


PARIS France said on Sunday the U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State should begin the battle on the group's Syrian bastion Raqqa while the offensive on Mosul is underway, Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said.
"I believe it will be necessary," he told Europe 1 radio.
Le Drian, whose country is the second-biggest contributor to the coalition, added that the battle on Mosul would be long and complicated given that Islamic State was embedding itself within the local population.



ANKARA Turkish-backed forces in northern Syria aim to push Islamic State militants further south from al-Bab and are currently 12 or 13 km (8 miles) from the town, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday.
Turkey launched an incursion into Syria in August in support of largely Turkmen and Arab rebel fighters to try to drive Islamic State away from its border and prevent Kurdish militia groups from seizing ground in their wake.
Erdogan also said the European Union had promised Turkey 3 billion euros in aid for the Syrian migrants it is sheltering, but that only 200-300 million euros had so far arrived.


PRISTINA Kosovo's state prosecutor has said seven Islamic State suspects detained last week were planning attacks in the Balkans and were receiving instructions from militants in Syria.
Anti-terror police arrested seven men in three different towns on Friday and the group was subsequently jailed for 30 days pending further investigation by the court of first instance in Pristina.
The seven men had contacts in neighboring countries such as Macedonia and Albania, and other suspects from the group still remain at large, a document from the state prosecutor seen by Reuters showed.
Kosovo has not seen any militant attacks on its home turf, but at least 200 people have been detained or investigated for  alleged Islamic State-related offences. Around 300 Kosovars have gone to fight with the group in Syria and Iraq.
According to the prosecution, the seven men were in contact with an Islamic State member, the self-declared "commander of Albanians in Syria and Iraq", Lavdrim Muhaxheri, during September and October this year when he gave them instructions on attacks.
"They have prepared terrorist attacks on the territory of the Balkans, but first in Kosovo. They have planned to attack different buildings including security institutions," the prosecution said.
The men wanted to create a regional offshoot of Islamic State, and one had already spent time fighting alongside the group in Syria, the document said.
Domestic and regional security agencies in Kosovo, including NATO and the EU police mission, are worried those returning from combat zones could pose a threat to security, but so far there have been no attacks in Kosovo.
The prosecution has yet to file charges against the group.
Nasuf Hasani, the lawyer of one defendant, said he would appeal the court's decision to jail his client.
Most of Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority are nominally Muslim but overwhelmingly secular. Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2008 with the backing of the West.
In 2015 it adopted a law introducing jail sentences of up to 15 years for anyone found guilty of fighting in wars abroad.

SEOUL A South Korean court said on Sunday it had issued arrest warrants for two former presidential aides under investigation  in an influence peddling scandal that has sent President Park Geun-hye's approval rating to a record low.
Tens of thousands of South Koreans demonstrated at a rally on Saturday evening in central Seoul demanding that Park resign over the scandal involving an old friend, Choi Soon-sil, who is alleged to have used her closeness to the president to meddle in state affairs.
Park's approval rating has fallen to just 5 percent, the lowest since such polling began in 1988, according to a Gallup Korea survey released on Friday.
The Seoul Central District Court said in a statement that it granted a warrant to prosecutors to arrest An Chong-bum, a former senior advisor for Park, who faces charges of abuse of power and attempted extortion. An was already in custody under an emergency detention order.
Prosecutors are looking into allegations that An and Choi forced South Korean conglomerates to donate funds to non-profit foundations.
The court said it also issued an arrest warrant for a second former presidential aide, Jeong Ho-seong, who also had already been held in temporary custody.
Prosecutors apprehended Jeong late on Thursday on suspicion of leaking classified information.
An and Jeong both stepped down late last month amid the deepening crisis.
In a televised address on Friday an apologetic Park said her "heart was breaking" over the scandal, pledging to cooperate with prosecutors in their investigation.
Choi's lawyer has said he expects prosecutors to look into whether she inappropriately received classified documents.
Choi told South Korea's Segye Ilbo newspaper last month that she received drafts of Park's speeches after Park's election victory but denied she had access to other official material, influenced state affairs or benefited financially.

ANKARA Turkish police detained 15 suspects in an operation involving raids across the southeastern province of Adana targeting the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militant group, the state-run Anadolu Agency said on Sunday.
The raids come as fighting between security forces and PKK militants in the largely Kurdish southeast has escalated to new heights since the collapse of a 2-1/2-year ceasefire between the state and the militant group in July of last year.
On Friday, a car bomb in the mainly Kurdish city of Diyarbakir killed 11 people and wounded at least 100, hours after Turkish authorities detained the leaders and lawmaker of the main pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), whom the government accuses of links to the PKK.
Officials blamed the autonomy-seeking PKK, citing radio intercepts, although Islamic State also claimed responsibility for the attack, according to the group's Amaq news agency. Kurdish militants, Islamic State radicals and far leftists have all staged attacks on civilians in Turkey in recent years.
Anadolu said the anti-terror police raids, backed by helicopter, were carried out simultaneously at various spots across the city.
In security operations over the past week, 28 PKK militants were "neutralized", the Interior Ministry said on Monday.
More than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict since the PKK took up arms in 1984. It is considered a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.

BERLIN A European Commission report on Turkey's progress toward European Union membership cites problems with press freedoms and independence of the judiciary, Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung said on Sunday.
The German newspaper said that the report, to be published on Wednesday, described "a significant relapse" in press freedom and said legal decisions over national security and the fight against terrorism were applied "selectively and randomly."
It also cited significant concerns about the many Turkish journalists who have been arrested and media outlets that have been shut down since the failed July 15 coup, the newspaper said, citing a copy of the report.
European officials have been increasingly critical of Turkey's crackdown on those it suspects of involvement in the attempted coup. More than 110,000 judges, teachers, police and civil servants have been detained or suspended in a response that critics say is quashing legitimate opposition.
Some 170 newspapers, magazines, TV stations and news agencies have been closed, leaving 2,500 journalists unemployed, Turkey's association of journalists says.
The European Commission report also says there has been a relapse in the independence of the judiciary, noting that one fifth of judges and prosecutors had been dismissed after the attempted putsch, the paper said.
It said some of those arrested had been held for up to 30 days before being brought before a judge during the state of emergency imposed after the failed coup.
The report also raises "very serious questions" about the Turkish government's collective actions against people suspected of ties to U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, who is accused of instigating the coup attempt.
It said vague criteria raised the appearance that people were being arrested due to mere "association" with Gulen rather any specific individual actions.
Gulen has denied any involvement in the coup attempt.

MELBOURNE Trade ministers from Australia and Indonesia continued negotiations on Sunday to seal a trade deal between the two neighbors, despite Indonesian President Joko Widodo postponing a trip to Australia to deal with local unrest.
Widodo postponed his Nov. 6 to 8 visit on Saturday after a mass protest in Jakarta on Friday that briefly turned violent as Muslim extremists pressed for the resignation of the capital's governor, a Christian they say insulted the Koran.
Indonesia's president has faced criticism for failing to rein in hardline groups that had promised for weeks to bring tens of thousands onto the streets of the capital.
Meanwhile, Indonesian Trade Minister Enggartiasto Lukita continued negotiations with his counterpart Australian Trade Minister Steven Ciobo on Sunday for a bilateral trade agreement expected to be reached by late next year.
Long-stalled discussions to secure a trade agreement resumed in March, despite the often uneasy relationship between the two neighbors.
"While it is unfortunate President Widodo had to postpone his visit, Minister Lukita's decision to visit Australia at this time to discuss the Indonesia-Australia Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement reflects the importance of this agreement to both governments," Ciobo said in a statement.
Widodo had been expected to address Australia's parliament on Monday after attending meetings with Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Sunday.
Turnbull visited Indonesia last year in the hope of smoothing over ties strained by rows over spying, the execution of Australian citizens in Indonesia and Australia's tough asylum-seeker policies.
Indonesia is Southeast Asia's largest economy but is only Australia's thirteenth-largest trading partner, with two-way trade worth A$15 billion ($11.51 billion) in 2015.
Australia is hoping for greater access to Indonesia for its live-cattle exports and other agricultural products. Additionally, negotiations are also expected for increased tourism and investment in Indonesia.

LONDON He turned "You're fired" into his reality show catch-phrase, but it was Donald Trump who went up in flames on Saturday - or at least an effigy of him did, as part of Britain's annual Bonfire Night celebrations.
An 11-metre-high (36 feet) model of the Republican U.S. presidential candidate was burned at a fireworks display in the town of Edenbridge, 30 miles (50 km) south of London.
The sculpture showed Trump, complete with his trademark mop of hair, holding his Democratic rival for the White House, Hilary Clinton, in a headlock, and sporting a pair of Mexico-themed boxer shorts.
"I think he would be quietly amused," artist Frank Shepherd said of his muse.
Britain celebrates the failed attempt to blow up the Houses of Parliament in 1605 by letting off fireworks and lighting bonfires with an effigy of the "Gunpowder Plot" leader Guy Fawkes on top.
The celebrations in Edenbridge also feature effigies of unpopular celebrities and in the past have included former FIFA president Sepp Blatter, former Prime Minister Tony Blair, deposed Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and disgraced American cyclist Lance Armstrong.
Other contenders for this year's choice included Philip Green, the billionaire former owner of failed retail chain BHS who is under pressure to resolve the firm's pension problems, and Sam Allardyce who quit as England soccer manager in September, after one game in charge, after a newspaper sting.
Effigies of Trump, including one of him sitting atop a Mexican border control wall, were also due to go up in smoke on Saturday at a fireworks display in the town of Lewes, 60 miles south of London.

KABUL An Australian working for a non-governmental organization (NGO) in Afghanistan was reported kidnapped in the capital Kabul on Saturday, officials said.
"The Australian Embassy in Kabul is making urgent enquiries into reports an Australian has been kidnapped in Kabul," a spokesman for the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade in Canberra said in an emailed statement on Sunday. "Due to the nature of the incident we will not be commenting further." 
Afghan television station Tolo News said on Sunday the Australian woman was abducted at gunpoint in the Qala-i-Fatullah area in the center of the city.
Kidnapping has long been a major problem in Afghanistan, affecting Afghans more often than foreigners, with ransom often the motive.
However, there have been several abductions of foreign aid workers, including at least two Australians this year alone.
Kerry Jane Wilson, who was abducted from the office of a charity in the eastern city of Jalalabad in April, was freed in August. Another Australian, working as a teacher at the American University in Kabul, was kidnapped with an American colleague in August.

TOKYO India's Defence Ministry will agree on Monday to purchase 12 amphibious rescue aircraft from Japanese manufacturer ShinMaywa Industries worth $1.5 billion-$1.6 billion, the Nikkei news paper reported on Sunday.
Japan and India have been holding talks on the purchase for more than two years. It would one of Japan's first sales of military equipment since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe lifted a 50-year ban on arms exports and it reflects growing defense ties between the two countries.
India's Defence Ministry will approve the purchase of 12 US-2 aircraft at a Defense Acquisitions Council meeting scheduled for Monday, the Nikkei reporting, citing senior ministry officials it did not name.
The deal will be included in a memorandum of understanding to be signed during Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Japan from Thursday to Saturday, the Nikkei said, citing the officials.
During the visit, Abe will also urge Modi to expand its usage of Japan's high-speed train technology, the Nikkei reported.

LONDON British police said they arrested 47 people on Saturday at an anti-capitalism demonstration in central London organized by the Anonymous hacking group.
Hundreds of protesters, many of them masked, took part in the protest which began in Trafalgar Square and moved to parliament.
Demonstrators chanted "Whose streets? Our streets" and "One solution, revolution" as they marched accompanied by police.
In a breakdown of an earlier tally of the arrests, when 33 people had been detained, police said 14 people were arrested for drugs offences and 11 for obstruction. One person was arrested for criminal damage.
Similar marches linked to Anonymous were due to take place in other cities around the world on Saturday.


LONDON British Prime Minister Theresa May will use her first bilateral trade trip since taking office to try to boost ties with India before leaving the European Union.
May's office said the visit starting on Sunday night would focus on breaking down barriers to trade and investment and paving the way for a free trade deal as soon as possible after Brexit, which is not expected to happen before 2019.
Explaining the choice of India, a government official said: "It matters now more than ever. India is the fastest-growing major economy."
May said the trip was about seizing the opportunities of Brexit and "expanding our horizons and forging stronger partnerships with countries around the world".
"This is a partnership about our shared security and shared prosperity. It is a partnership of potential. And on this visit I intend to harness that potential, rebooting an age-old relationship," she said in a statement ahead of the visit.
While Britain cannot sign trade deals with third countries until it is outside the EU, the government is keen to hold preparatory discussions.
May, accompanied by trade ministers Liam Fox and Greg Hands and around 40 business representatives mainly from small- and medium-sized technology and healthcare firms, will address a technology summit, have a working lunch with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and meet businesses.
Among representatives of larger firms joining her on the trip are David McMillan, CEO of insurer Aviva, Ivan Menezes, the CEO of drinks firm Diageo and the chairman of Asia-focused bank Standard Chartered, John Peace.
May will visit New Delhi and outsourcing hub Bengaluru before leaving on Tuesday. Her office said commercial deals to be signed during the trip were expected to create a total of 1,370 jobs in the UK.
One potential area of difficulty is her plan to curb the annual level of net migration to under 100,000 from its rate of more than three times that. India is keen for Britain to welcome more of its students and skilled workers.
"We want to attract the brightest and the best while also doing more to control migration," the official said. "When we get to ... looking at these bilateral deals we are confident that we will be able to do strong and ambitious deals."
May and Modi will also launch a partnership on smart cities and urban development which could generate business worth up to 2 billion pounds for British firms over the next five years, her office said.
Britain will press India to allow its law firms to operate  there, and will also offer its government expertise in areas such as deregulation and tax to help make India a more attractive business environment.
The official declined to say whether May would specifically raise with Modi the issue of Tata Steel Ltd, which put its British steel operations up for sale earlier this year but suspended it in July due to uncertainty over the Brexit vote.
The government has not given away much detail about its Brexit plans, with May only saying it wants the best deal to "trade with and operate within" the EU's single market.
Some have suggested that if the UK stays in the EU's customs union it will not be able to strike trade deals with third countries such as India, but the British official disputed this.
"Turkey is in the customs union but has trade agreements with third countries," the official said.
Turkey has free trade agreements with 18 countries including in Asia, north Africa and South America, while another 12 including Japan and Mexico are actively under discussion, according to the Turkish economy ministry website.

LONDON The head of Britain's opposition Labour Party will try to block divorce talks with the European Union if the government does not agree to Labour's Brexit demands, potentially leading to an early national election, a newspaper said on Saturday.
Jeremy Corbyn told the Sunday Mirror that Labour's "Brexit bottom line" would require guarantees for access to the EU's single market for exporters, continued protection of workers' rights, safeguards for consumers and the environment and pledges that Britain would make up any loss of EU capital investment.
England's High Court dealt Prime Minister Theresa May a setback on Thursday when it ruled that the decision to begin formal talks about leaving the EU needed to be approved by parliament.
The government has said it will appeal the decision but should it have to hold the vote, the ruling Conservative Party may struggle to get the majority it needs because some of its own members have concerns about the terms of Brexit.
"We are not challenging the referendum. We are not calling for a second referendum," Corbyn told the Sunday Mirror. "We're calling for market access for British industry to Europe."
May told other EU leaders on Friday she believed the court ruling would be overturned and said she would stick to her timetable of starting the Brexit negotiations before the end of March.
The Labour Party supported the "Remain" campaign ahead of the June 23 referendum.
In his interview with the Sunday Mirror, Corbyn said he was looking forward to the possibility of an election before the next scheduled national poll in 2020.
"If the government calls an election we're ready for it," he said. "We have the members, the organization and the enthusiasm. We welcome the challenge."
Separately on Saturday, another newspaper quoted May as saying there would be no going back on the government's Brexit plan, despite the setback in the High Court and calling on pro-EU lawmakers and judges to accept the outcome of the referendum.
"Instead of re-fighting the battles of the past, we should be focusing on how we can come together as a country to make the most of this great national opportunity and forge a bold, confident, global future for Britain," May wrote in the Sunday Telegraph.


MOLCAXAC, Mexico In the small southern market town of Molcaxac, 650 miles (1050 km) from the U.S. border, Alicia Villa is praying to God that Republican candidate Donald Trump does not become the next president of the United States.
Over the past two decades, as Mexico's rural economy stalled, Molcaxac and hundreds of towns like it became dependent on dollars sent by relatives who made the perilous journey north, a lifeline she fears will be cut by a Trump White House.
Villa, 65, said funds sent by a daughter working illegally as a house cleaner in Sacramento, California have supported her family for 12 years because the work she does as receptionist in Molcaxac does not pay enough to make ends meet.
"I am Catholic and I have asked God and the Virgin of Asuncion that he lose," Villa said of Trump, placing her head in her hands and intoning a prayer in the square of the deeply religious hill town dominated by a striking blue church.
Inside, the church was adorned with notes thanking migrant relatives for money sent to help build homes, start businesses and pay for marriages in the town surrounded by rivers, mountains and meadows in the state of Puebla.
"Trump says he will kick out everyone who doesn't have papers and we really need them to be there," said Villa, adding that she had not seen some family members living in the United States in 20 years.
Trump, a real-estate tycoon who has narrowed the gap with  Democratic rival Hillary Clinton ahead of next Tuesday's vote, has vowed to make it harder for illegal immigrants to live and work in the United States, to increase deportations and to limit remittances unless Mexico pays billions for a wall along the nearly 2,000-mile (3,200-km) U.S.-Mexico border.
Such policies would take a heavy toll in Molcaxac, where local authorities say more than 70 percent of the population lives on remittances sent home by immigrants to the United States, many of them undocumented.
"Our town has improved a lot since our people started to leave for the United States," said stonemason Esteban Marquez, whose workshop was partly funded by remittances from one of his children.
    
'NOTHING FOR THEM' HERE
Mexico has more than 5 million citizens living without regular papers in the United States, or about half of the entire undocumented population.
Those men and women send back a large chunk of Mexico's foreign exchange earnings, contributing more than $20 billion in remittances wired this year through September.
According to Mexico's Central Bank, Puebla received $1 billion in remittances in the same period, making it the fifth biggest recipient among Mexican states.
So many people from Puebla live in the New York area that New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a Trump supporter, visited the state in 2014. Couriers have grown rich transporting salsas and fresh cheese to homesick natives up north.
The money has transformed places like Molcaxac, a  picturesque town dotted with well-built homes attesting to the flow of dollars.
It is not just the potential loss of income Trump could spark that worries Molcaxac locals.
The lack of employment in rural Mexico is one of the main reasons drug gangs find it easy to recruit among young people and those deported from the United States, they say.
"Here in Mexico, the truth is there is nothing for them," said stonemason Marquez. "The people who stay need to survive, and since there is no work, they get pulled into crime."
    
'VOTE FOR THE LADY'
Opinion polls in the run-up to the election suggest that Villa's prayers stand a good chance of being answered, with most putting Clinton consistently ahead of her Republican rival.
But the polls also show her losing ground in the final stretch. Real Clear Politics, which averages the results of most major polls, shows Clinton's advantage had declined from 4.6 percentage points to 1.7 points over the past week.
Even those of more modest means in Molcaxac are on edge with America's election.
"Only God knows if they are going to be able to stay there," said Serafina Martinez, who at 70 still works in the fields.
She worries it would be hard to survive without the little her son in California sends when he can.
"I would like him to keep helping us with pennies," said Martinez, her curved back laden with firewood and groceries.
Still, the uncertainty has also helped locals in an unexpected way: the Mexican peso's value plunges every time Trump advances, making the dollar remittances stretch further.
But there is no doubt in the minds of Molcaxac's townspeople that they would rather see Clinton in the White House.
Clinton has proposed comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship, and says she will end detention of immigrant families.
"I think she will win, and that gives us hope that our relatives will be able to regularize (their papers)," said Teresa Amador, selling flowers in the main market. "I have a son who was born there, and he is going to vote for the lady."

ATHENS About 1,000 Kurds and pro-Kurdish supporters marched to the Turkish embassy in Athens on Saturday, chanting "Fascist Erdogan!" to protest against the detention of Kurdish leaders in Turkey.
The leaders of Turkey's pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) were jailed pending trial on Friday as part of a terrorism investigation, drawing condemnation in the West of a crackdown on dissent under President Tayyip Erdogan.
In Athens, demonstrators unfurled large Kurdish flags and held up banners depicting HDP co-leaders Selahattin Demirtas and  Figen Yuksekdag. "No to Erdogan's dictatorship," a banner read.
The representative of the Kurdish Democratic Union Party (PYD) in Greece, Ibrahem Muslem, said the arrests were "an attack against democracy and humanity around the world."
"We want freedom for Selahattin Demirtas," said another protester, 23-year-old Levent.
Police in riot gear blocked the demonstrators from reaching the embassy.
On Saturday, Turkish authorities ordered the formal arrest of nine staff members of a leading opposition newspaper and detained more pro-Kurdish officials.
More than 110,000 officials, including judges, teachers, police and civil servants, have been detained or suspended following a failed coup in July.

BERLIN Bavaria's Christian Social Union (CSU) on Saturday agreed to focus on common interests with Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) ahead of national polls next year, edging away from differences over immigration that have divided the sister parties.
"Our opponent is not the CDU," CSU leader and Bavarian state premier Horst Seehofer said on Saturday, warning a party congress that the CSU needed a conservative victory in September 2017 national elections to ensure its success in a 2018 state vote.
In a gesture aimed at smoothing over differences between the sister parties, Seehofer on Friday said he was wrong to openly criticize Merkel for her refusal to adopt limits on refugees, although he insisted that he still wanted annual numbers of migrants capped at 200,000.
The parties also remain at odds over national referendums - a move backed by the CSU but rejected by Merkel and the CDU.
The dispute over migration caps has hurt both parties in opinion polls and contributed to a series of state election defeats, with many voters shifting away from the conservatives to the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD).
A recent poll by German broadcaster SAT.1 Bayern showed nine percent of Bavarians now support the AfD, with the CSU losing its absolute majority and pulling in just 44 percent.
The CSU is sister party to Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), and together they form "The Union".
But angst in the fiercely proud and traditional CSU about last year's influx of almost a million migrants has sown discord between the allies.
Merkel, expected to seek a fourth term next year, rejects a cap on migrants, but she needs the support of the CSU, which operates only in Bavaria and delivers about a sixth of the combined CDU/CSU vote.
A large majority of party members voted against a motion that would have forced the CSU to refrain from supporting Merkel as the conservative candidate for chancellor, after Seehofer said it was critical to first debate substantive issues with the CDU before addressing personnel matters.
Party members also approved a proposal to fight against a future national coalition of left-leaning parties, including the far-left Left party, the centrist-left Social Democrats (SPD), and the pro-environment Green party.
Currently, the German government is run by a coalition of the conservatives and the SPD, but growing divisions have prompted speculation that left-leaning parties could join forces to run the government after next year's parliamentary elections.
Seehofer, in an apparent bid to win back voters drifting toward the AfD, said the CSU was center-right oriented, but also wanted to offer a political "homeland" for "national conservatives" and those with traditional values.
Party members also approved a new program entitled "The Order", which embraces German "Leitkultur" or "leading culture" and maps out specific security and economic policies.
In an apparent reference to the AfD, Markus Blume, who headed the commission that drafted the document, said the plan was aimed at differentiating the CSU from other parties that "divided and only played with people's fears."

ISTANBUL Turkish police used water cannon and tear gas against crowds of protesters in Istanbul on Saturday, a Reuters cameraman at the scene said, in an attempt to block them from marching to the office of an opposition newspaper whose staff had been arrested.
The protest in central Istanbul came hours after Turkish authorities ordered the formal arrest of nine staff members of the opposition Cumhuriyet newspaper and detained more pro-Kurdish officials, widening an anti-terrorism probe that has drawn condemnation from the West. On Friday the co-leaders of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) were also jailed pending trial.
Tear gas filled some streets in the Sisli neighborhood of Istanbul, another Reuters reporter near the scene said, while police helicopters were heard buzzing overhead.

BRUSSELS European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker dismissed Turkey's threats to walk away from a promise to stem the flow of illegal migrants to Europe if the European Union fails to grant Turks visa-free travel to the bloc.
Turkish leaders would be to blame if the deal collapses, Juncker said in an interview published on Saturday, in which he warned that Turkey was drifting away from democratic values and closer ties with Europe.
"I am immune to threats from Turkey's leaders," Juncker told Belgian newspaper Le Soir. "If Turkey does not fulfil the conditions laid down, there will be no progress on visas," he said, adding that if the deal collapses "it will be Turkey's fault."
Turkey agreed in March to stop illegal migrants from crossing into Greece in exchange for financial aid for those in its care, the promise of visa-free travel for its citizens to much of the EU, and accelerated EU membership talks.
But there has been deadlock over the plan to grant Turks visa-free access to Europe, with Brussels first wanting Turkey to change its anti-terrorism laws, which it deems too broad.
European leaders also criticized Turkey's detention of leaders of the country's main pro-Kurdish opposition party in an investigation on Friday.
While Juncker did not comment directly on the arrests, the head of the EU executive called the reaction of the government to a failed coup attempt in Turkey on July 15 "excessive".
"I note with sadness that Turkey is moving away from Europe; it is not Europe that is moving away from Turkey," Juncker said.

DUBLIN Ireland's foreign ministry is investigating reports that an Irish citizen died in a suicide attack near the Iraqi city of Mosul, a spokesman said on Saturday.
The Islamic State’s (IS) al-Jazeerah Province in northern Iraq on Friday said Abu Usama al-Irelandi detonated an explosive-laden vehicle, killing and wounding dozens, the SITE Intelligence Group, a U.S. company that monitors Islamist websites, reported.
Abu Usama is a pseudonym used by Irish Islamic State sympathizer Terence Kelly. Pictures posted by Islamic State sympathizers on Twitter showed a man resembling Kelly posing with a machine gun in front of an armored car.
"The martyrdom-seeking brother Abu Usama al-Irelandi - may Allah accept him - set off with and detonated his explosives-laden vehicle on another gathering of apostates, in Aghazil al-Kabir village, south of Tal Afar, killing and wounding dozens of them, and destroying several of their vehicles," SITE quoted the IS statement as saying.
Tal Afar is around 80 kilometers west of Mosul. Reuters could not immediately confirm the report.
Ireland's Foreign Ministry said it was looking into reports of an Irish citizen's death, but declined to comment on their identity.
"The department is aware of media reports concerning an Irish citizen in Iraq and is seeking to clarify the situation," the Irish Foreign Ministry spokesman said.
Kelly was brought up Catholic in central Dublin and converted to Islam in his early 30s in Saudi Arabia, where he worked as a nurse for three years, converting in prison after he was arrested for illegally brewing alcohol. He also used the pseudonym Khalid Kelly.
Kelly repeatedly praised al Qaeda and Osama Bin Laden in interviews with the Irish media and was arrested in 2011 for making threats against U.S. President Barack Obama ahead of his visit to Ireland.
He traveled to Pakistan and later told interviewers that he had trained with militants there.
Iraqi troops on Saturday advanced towards Mosul, battling for the last town left between them and the Islamic State stronghold to the north, which was already under assault from special forces inside its eastern districts.
Recapturing Mosul would effectively crush the Iraqi half of a self-proclaimed caliphate declared by Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi from the pulpit of a Mosul mosque two years ago. His Islamist group also controls large parts of east Syria.

MILAN/TRIPOLI Two Italian workers and a Canadian kidnapped in Libya in September have been freed and were flown to Italy early on Saturday, Italian and Libyan officials said.
Danilo Calonego, Bruno Cacace and Frank Poccia were abducted on Sept. 19 in Ghat, southwestern Libya, near the site where they worked by an armed group that blocked the vehicle in which they were traveling, the Italian foreign ministry said.
The two Italians were technicians employed by construction group Conicos, it added.
"The three were released in the early hours of Saturday and were handed over to Italian authorities," said Hassan Ottman, a spokesman for the municipal council in the Libyan town of Ghat.
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi thanked everyone who played a role in the men's release, especially the authorities and security forces in Libya.
"Today is a time of relief and joy that I would like to share with the families of our technicians," he said.
Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said the men had not been subjected to any particular violence and were in good health. The men are being interviewed by authorities in Rome before they are expected to be reunited with their families.
The men told an investigator that the kidnappers were part of one single criminal group, were not jihadists and "drank alcohol and did not pray", Italian media reported.
All three men were working on airport projects in Libya's southwestern desert near the border with Algeria when kidnapped, Ghat's mayor said at the time.
Numerous criminal and armed groups are active in Libya's vast southern desert, and al Qaeda-linked Islamist militants have long had a presence across the border between Libya and Algeria.

ANKARA Turkey's military hit 71 Islamic State targets in Syria over the last 24 hours, the army said on Saturday, intensifying strikes against the militant group, which has claimed responsibility for the latest bomb attack in southeast Turkey.
Five Islamic State fighters were killed in the strikes, as were five Turkey-backed rebels and one Turkish soldier, the army said in its statement. It said coalition forces conducted five air strikes, killing another eight Islamic State militants.
Turkey is backing a group of Syrian Arabs and Turkmen in northern Syria in its Euphrates Shield operation, which has swept Islamic State from its southern border.
The Sunni hardline group has claimed responsibility for a car bomb in the southeastern Turkish city of Diyarbakir on Friday that killed nine people and wounded more than 100.


LONDON Britain's government defended the independence of the country's judiciary on Saturday after three judges came under a wave of criticism from newspapers and a senior official for dealing a blow to the government's Brexit preparations.
Justice minister Liz Truss, under growing pressure to back the judges, issued a brief statement saying the independence of the judiciary was the "foundation upon which our rule of law is built" and said Britain's legal system was impartial.
England's High Court triggered an angry response from some lawmakers and newspapers on Thursday when it ruled that the decision to begin Britain's formal divorce talks with the European Union needed to be approved by parliament and could not be taken by the government alone.
Sajid Javid, a member of May's cabinet, called the ruling  an "unacceptable" attempt to "frustrate the will of the British people", while The Daily Mail newspaper said the three judges who handed down the ruling were "enemies of the people".
The protests prompted other Conservative lawmakers to rally behind the judges.
"There is something smacking of the fascist state about them (the attacks)," Dominic Grieve, a former British attorney general, was quoted as saying in The Times on Saturday.
"It shows either a total misunderstanding of the UK constitution, which such critics periodically extol — or a deliberate desire to destroy it."
Bob Neill, the Conservative chairman of parliament's justice committee, said the attacks were "threatening the independence of our judiciary" and had "no place in a civilized land."
A group representing senior lawyers in England and Wales, the Bar Council, urged Truss earlier on Saturday to condemn the "unjustified attacks" as a matter of urgency.
"A strong independent judiciary is essential to a functioning democracy and to upholding the rule of law," the Council said.
Stephen Glover, a columnist for the Daily Mail, stood by the newspaper's coverage of the court ruling and said he did not think judges would be cowed by the criticism of their decision.
"To imagine that this has had some terrible, devastating effect on British society is literally crazy," he told the BBC.
May told other EU leaders on Friday she believed the court ruling would be overturned and said she would stick to her Brexit timetable.

LAGOS One of more than 200 schoolgirls abducted by jihadist group Boko Haram from their school in northeast Nigeria's Chibok in 2014 has been found by soldiers, a Nigerian army spokesman said on Saturday, weeks after the militants released 21 of the girls.
Around 270 girls were kidnapped in April 2014 by the Islamist militant group, which has killed 15,000 people and displaced more than two million during a seven-year insurgency aimed at creating an Islamic caliphate in north-east Nigeria.
Dozens escaped in the initial melee, but more than 200 remained missing for more than two years.
Sani Usman said the girl, Maryam Ali Maiyanga, was discovered by troops who were screening escapees from Boko Haram's base in the Sambisa forest on Saturday morning in Pulka, Gwoza Local Government Area, in Borno State.
"She was discovered to be carrying a 10-month-old son, named Ali. She has been taken to the unit's medical facility for (a) proper medical check up," said Usman.
Bring Back Our Girls, a group of campaigners with close ties to relatives of those abducted, said "preliminary investigations" showed the girl was number 198 on its register of the kidnapped girls.
In a statement, the campaign group said she was from Askira Uba, a district of Borno state, and was abducted along with her twin who is yet to return.
Last month, 21 of the girls were released by Boko Haram following talks with the government brokered by the International Red Cross and the Swiss government. The government has vowed to rescue the girls still being held.
The first of the schoolgirls to be found was discovered by soldiers on the edge of the Sambisa forest, a former colonial game reserve in Borno state about 100 km (60 miles) from the village of Chibok, in May.

MILITARY OFFENSIVE
Nigeria's military has been carrying out a large-scale offensive in the vast woodland area and other parts of Borno state, the epicenter of the insurgency, in the last few weeks.
Usman said troops killed 14 suspected Boko Haram militants on Friday during a clash at Mallam Fatori, northern Borno State.
"We lost an officer and four soldiers, while four other soldiers sustained various degrees of injuries during the encounter," he said.
Boko Haram has kidnapped hundreds of men, women and children but the kidnapping of the Chibok girls brought worldwide attention to the group and widespread condemnation.
The group, which last year pledged loyalty to the militant group Islamic State, controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium in early 2015.
Nigeria's army, aided by troops from neighboring countries, has since recaptured most of the territory, although the jihadist group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast, as well as in neighboring Niger and Cameroon.

MADRID Spain said security forces had arrested the head of Basque militant separatist group ETA in south-western France on Saturday in a joint operation between the French domestic intelligence service and Spanish police.
Mikel Irastorza was detained in a house in Ascain, a village near the Pyrenees mountains, the Spanish Interior Ministry said in a statement, adding that the 41-year-old leader of the illegal organization had been on the run since 2008.
Irastorza had led ETA for just over a year since the arrests of two previous leaders in France last year, the ministry said.
"(The arrest) is a crushing blow to ETA, removing its leadership and eliminating the part that controlled arms and explosives," it said, adding that the operation remained open.
French and Spanish media reported that Irastorza is being held in the French city of Bayonne.
ETA, which does not normally comment in such situations, was formed in the late 1950s during the dictatorship of Francisco Franco and aims to establish an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southern France.
The group killed over 800 people over several decades through bombings and execution-style killings.
However, ETA has been severely weakened in recent years after hundreds of its members were arrested and some of its weapons were seized. It called a unilateral ceasefire in 2011 and pledged to turn in its weapons, although a full handover has yet to happen.
A Spanish man and a French woman were also arrested, the ministry said, alleging they had given shelter to Irastorza and were the owners of the house where he was arrested.

ANKARA Two children were killed when a bomb planted by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) exploded in the southeastern Turkish province of Sirnak on Saturday, the local governor's office said.
Four more children were also wounded in the attack, the governor's office said in a statement.
Earlier on Saturday, authorities appointed a new mayor to the Sirnak municipality. Turkish authorities have been replacing municipal officials in the mainly Kurdish southeast, accusing them of supporting the outlawed PKK.

JAKARTA Indonesia's President Joko Widodo postponed a visit to Australia on Saturday after a mass protest in Jakarta that briefly turned violent as Muslim extremists pressed for the resignation of the capital's governor, a Christian they say insulted the Koran.
Widodo has faced criticism for failing to rein in hardline groups that had promised for weeks to bring tens of thousands onto the streets of the capital, and during Friday's protest his office said he was inspecting a rail project at the airport.
At a news conference after midnight on Friday, he blamed "political actors" for fanning popular anger over city Governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, who is standing for re-election in February, competing with two Muslims for the job.
The governorship of the capital is a powerful position and one held by Widodo before he became president two years ago.
Widodo had planned to use his Nov. 6-8 visit to Australia to cement improving ties, with a focus on economic and maritime cooperation and efforts to counter Islamist militancy.
"Looking at the latest situation and condition in Indonesia that require the presence of the president, President Joko Widodo decided to postpone his scheduled state visit to Australia," a statement from his office said.
The protest against Purnama, the first ethnic Chinese to hold the position of Jakarta governor, was largely peaceful but in the evening the crowd grew restive and police restrained them with tear gas and water cannon fire.
One person died and more than 100 were injured in the violence, many of them police officers. Three vehicles were torched and 18 were damaged, national police spokesman Boy Rafli Amar told a news conference on Saturday.
Clashes broke out in a north Jakarta area where there are large communities of non-Muslims and about 15 people were arrested there for looting a minimart, Amar said.
Some Chinese-owned shops and restaurants were shuttered in northern Jakarta on Saturday, while security officers guarded a temple and a school, according to a resident.
A spokesman for the Islamic Defenders Front, a group that led the protest, denied responsibility for the violence and said the "provocateurs" were the police who fired tear gas.
The group may organize another protest if the legal process against Purnama for his Koran comments is not allowed to run its course, said Munarman, who goes by one name. "If the law is ignored ... then we will call for similar action."

WIDODO BLAMES 'POLITICAL ACTORS'
Indonesia has the world's largest Muslim population, but most follow a moderate form of Islam and protests on such a large scale are rare.
Ethnic Chinese make up just over 1 percent of Indonesia's 250 million people, and they typically do not enter politics.
Indonesian Chinese have faced persecution and violence in the past, especially during the turmoil that gripped Jakarta when former strongman Suharto was toppled in the late 1990s.
About a dozen Muslim groups have accused Purnama of insulting Islam after he jokingly said his opponents had used a verse from the Koran to deceive voters. The verse implies that Muslims should not choose non-Muslims as leaders.
Police are investigating the case against Purnama, who has apologized for his remarks, insisting he was not criticizing the Koranic verse but those who used it to attack him.
Purnama, popularly known as 'Ahok', is a no-nonsense reformer with little patience for the corruption widely blamed for the chaos and dilapidated infrastructure of an overcrowded city of 10 million.
He remains popular despite efforts by Muslim groups to vilify him and is seen as the frontrunner in the election, though many voters are angry with him for evicting thousands  from slums to modernize Jakarta.
Widodo, a Muslim, has vowed not to interfere in any legal proceedings against Purnama, who is an ally of the president. But he told the news conference that any legal process involving Purnama would be executed "swiftly, firmly and transparently".
He criticized politicians - whom he didn't name - for inciting die-hard protesters after most had already gone home.
" ... we deplore the incident after the Isha prayers, when [demonstrators] should have already disbanded but became violent. And, we see this was steered by political actors who were exploiting the situation," he said.
A former furniture salesman who became the first president of Indonesia from outside the military or political elite, Widodo struggled in his first year to assert himself but since then he has built alliances across the political spectrum.
Analysts say that by openly supporting Purnama he could weaken his support base.
"From his perspective this visit to Australia just doesn't seem to match the urgency of this happening in Jakarta: although it's not conceivable that he might be overthrown ... it is conceivable that he could be greatly reduced in power to support the re-election of Ahok," said political analyst Wimar Witoelar.

TIKRIT, Iraq Two roadside bombs struck a convoy carrying Iraqi families fleeing an Islamic State-controlled town in the north of the country late on Friday, killing 18 people, a police officer said.
The bombs targeted a truck carrying people from Hawija, about 120 km (75 miles) south of Islamic State's stronghold in Mosul, as they were being taken to the town of Al Alam, next to the Tigris river.
Seventeen of the dead were from the displaced families, regional police Colonel Nemaa al-Jabouri told Reuters. One policeman in an accompanying patrol car was also killed.
Pictures published on social media by a group linked to Iraq's defense ministry showed several blackened corpses next to the twisted metal remains of the truck.

BRUSSELS European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said he was shocked by remarks by Germany's European commissioner that offended China, gay people and French-speaking Belgians this week, but was convinced they do not represent his true views.
Juncker was commenting in his first interview on the matter since Guenther Oettinger last week called Chinese people "slit-eyes", joked about "compulsory gay marriage" and railed at a Belgian region's efforts to block an EU-Canada trade deal.
"A Commissioner cannot hold such views. I told him he had to apologize to those who could have felt targeted," Juncker said in an interview with the Belgian newspaper Le Soir on Saturday.
Oettinger apologized on Thursday, saying he realized his remarks had "hurt" people. But the long delay before he issued an apology sparked an outcry that threatened to jeopardize trade ties with China.
His U-turn came a day after the Chinese foreign ministry condemned his remarks and said they reflected a "baffling sense of superiority" among Western politicians.
Oettinger, 63, had previously accepted only that his comments on Oct. 25 had been "somewhat sloppy".
Juncker said he only learned of the comments on Wednesday night after a long holiday weekend: "I couldn't immediately turn my attention to this Oettinger's clumsiness."
But he said a conversation with the Commissioner convinced him that the comments did not represent his true opinion and that they "shared the same views".
"I sincerely think these comments did not convey his thoughts. He is a liberal man on social issues, and so I was surprised," Juncker told Le Soir.
Last Friday, before his comments had been widely reported, Juncker announced a promotion for Oettinger, who has a reputation for plain talk, from digital affairs to vice president for the budget.
The Commission is battling for public support for the European Union in the face of rising nationalist opposition exemplified by Britain's vote to leave the bloc in June.
Public outcry over Oettinger's comments comes after a scandal over whether former European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso broke ethics rules by taking a job at Goldman Sachs.
Juncker said in the interview he would propose extending the period during which former EU commissioners are banned from lobbying, from 18 months to three years.
"Maybe I waited too long before saying my thoughts on the ethics. The important thing is that I have drawn lessons from it for myself," Juncker said.

OUAGADOUGOU Burkina Faso has notified the United Nations that it will withdraw soldiers deployed as peacekeepers in Sudan's troubled Darfur region by July next year, the foreign minister said late on Friday.
The West African nation, which has a battalion of 850 soldiers serving in the nearly 14,000 troop strong U.N.-African Union hybrid mission, has suffered a series of deadly attacks at home amid a rise in Islamist militant violence.
Burkina Faso's government said in May that it would seek to bring some troops home to help reinforce domestic security.
"We have great need of battle-hardened soldiers, men of experience, men who have been on the ground. So the troops that will come from Darfur will be precious for securing our borders," Foreign Minister Alpha Barry said.
Burkina Faso was rocked in January by an attack on a hotel and restaurant in its capital, Ouagadougou, claimed by al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, that killed 30 people. It has continued to suffer sporadic attacks this year.
"From April 2015 to October 2016 we've had some 20 attacks, including two kidnappings of foreigners," Barry said. "We can't continue to have our troops abroad while we have internal needs to confront this asymmetrical war."
The Darfur mission, UNAMID, was established in 2007 to try to stem the violence in the restive region, where prosecutors for the International Criminal Court accuse Sudan's President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of committing genocide.
Barry said Ouagadougou had also requested that its troops serving in a U.N. peacekeeping mission in neighboring Mali be deployed to areas along the border with Burkina Faso.
"There is no problem in principle concerning this question," Mahamat Saleh Annadif, the head of the Malian mission, MINUSMA, said on Friday following a meeting with Burkina Faso President Roch Marc Christian Kaboré.
"Even now, this contingent is not very far and in the coming days a redeployment will take place so it is even closer."
Mali has been a haven for Islamist militants since groups, some with links to al Qaeda, seized its desert north in 2012. They were pushed back by a French military intervention in 2013 but have stepped up attacks across the region this year.

KUALA LUMPUR Several hundred pro-government demonstrators protested outside the office of a media group on Saturday, calling for it to be shut down after reports that it received funds from an organization linked to business tycoon George Soros.
The largely Malay group, which calls itself "Red Shirts", has alleged that foreign funds received by the popular news portal, Malaysiakini, was to be used to influence the next general election with an aim to topple Prime Minister Najib Razak's government.
The protest is expected to be dwarfed by a massive rally planned by democracy group Bersih on Nov. 19, which will call for the resignation of Najib over corruption allegations.
Dressed in red shirts, the demonstrators were chanting "close down, close down! close down Malaysiakini!".
"We don't want outside interference in our country," said Red Shirts leader Jamal Yunos, who is also a member of the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) party.
Over a hundred riot police officers were stationed in and around the Malaysiakini offices.
The controversy erupted after whistleblower site DC leaks revealed documents that allegedly showed Open Society Foundations (OSF), founded by Soros, was funding local organizations to influence the outcome of the next general election that is due to be called by 2018.
Malaysiakini and other organizations such as Bersih were linked to funds from OSF. Malaysiakini has said the funds from OSF were only used to produce more stories on Sarawak, and constituted a small portion of its revenue.
Editor-in-chief Steven Gan told a news conference after the protesters dispersed that none of its shareholders or funders had any influence over editorial policy.
"You can ask any of our journalists or editors ... that's completely impossible," he said. He added that he didn't think there was any law that would enable the government to shut them down.
Jamal had earlier vowed to "tear down" the offices of Malaysiakini by gathering more than 20,000 protesters.
"The threats against Malaysiakini are the latest instance of the right to freedom of expression coming under attack in the country," Amnesty International said in a statement on Friday.
Najib's administration has cracked down on the media and civil society in an attempt to silence criticism over his involvement in a money-laundering scandal at state fund 1MDB.
In July, U.S. prosecutors filed civil lawsuits alleging that 1MDB had been defrauded of more than $3.5 billion.
Najib has denied any wrongdoing and said Malaysia would cooperate with all international investigations.

YANGON Myanmar's plans to arm and train non-Muslim residents in the troubled north of Rakhine State is likely to "aggravate an already dire human rights situation", the International Commission of Jurists, a human rights watchdog, has said.
Soldiers have flooded the Maungdaw area along Myanmar's frontier with Bangladesh in Rakhine in response to coordinated attacks on three border posts on Oct. 9 in which nine police officers were killed.
The government said a group of some 400 Rohingya Muslim militants attacked the posts. It has said five soldiers and at least 33 suspected insurgents have been killed in the military operation since then.
Security forces have blocked access to aid workers and most journalists to the area. Rohingya Muslims have accused the army of summary executions, rapes and setting fire to homes of civilians. The government and the military deny that.
Rakhine State police chief Colonel Sein Lwin told Reuters this week his force had started recruiting new "regional police" from among the ethnic Rakhine and other non-Muslim ethnic minorities in the area.
"Establishing an armed, untrained, unaccountable force drawn from only one community in the midst of serious ethnic tensions and violence is a recipe for disaster," said Sam Zarifi, ICJ's Asia Director, said in a statement on Friday.
Min Aung, a minister in the Rakhine State parliament and a member of Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy, said this week the recruits would help protect residents from the militants behind the Oct. 9 attacks.
Deputy commander of Rakhine police, Col. Thit San, contacted by Reuters on Saturday, rejected the criticism, saying there will be no problems with the force as it would be under police command.
"We already did that training previously, that is normal police recruitment as five or six times before, there were no problems then," said Thit San.
Only citizens would be eligible to sign up for the police training, officials said, ruling out the 1.1 million Rohingyas living in Rakhine State, who are denied citizenship in Myanmar as they are regarded as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
Initially, 100 recruits aged between 18 and 35 would undergo an accelerated 16-week training program, beginning in the state capital, Sittwe, this month, police said, adding they would be given weapons and other equipment "like police".
Ethnic Rakhine political leaders have urged the government to arm Buddhists against what they say is rising militancy among the Rohingya.
The ICJ said such force would lack the training and oversight to perform policing functions in accordance with human rights and professional policing standards.
It said there seemed to be no "accountability mechanism" in place to deal with instances of misconduct and abuses, calling for establishment of a professional police force.

HONG KONG China's top parliamentary panel will discuss Hong Kong's mini-constitution and how it should be interpreted, the Chinese-ruled city government said on Friday, to try to end a crisis over a fledgling independence movement but raising fears of legal interference.
The Hong Kong government confirmed that the Standing Committee of China's National People's Congress would consider provisions of Hong Kong's Basic Law related to political allegiance this weekend.
The move comes as the Hong Kong government tries to disqualify two newly elected legislators promoting independence from China, amid growing speculation that Beijing would intervene.
A National People's Congress delegate in Beijing told Hong Kong media the request to intervene came from the standing committee.
"I believe the reasons involved national unity and territorial integrity," said Hong Kong delegate Maria Tam.
Hong Kong, a former British colony that returned to Chinese rule with wide-ranging autonomy in 1997, was rocked by street protests calling for democracy in 2014 and more recently by calls for independence, an idea that is anathema to Communist Party rulers in Beijing.
China's state news agency Xinhua said parliament head Zhang Dejiang, who is one of China's most senior Communist Party officials, and other top NPC members heard a report on Friday about the issue.
The meeting proposed that the NPC Standing Committee review a "draft explanation" of the article in Hong Kong's Basic Law governing the swearing-in of the territory's lawmakers and other officials on Monday, it said.
The Standing Committee has used such powers before, but many across the political and legal elite of the global financial hub fear any intervention from Beijing will deal a severe blow to Hong Kong's vaunted judicial independence.

IRREPARABLE HARM
The Hong Kong Bar Association said such intervention would undermine international confidence in Hong Kong's autonomy.
"The irreparable harm it will do to Hong Kong far outweighs any purpose it could possibly achieve," it said in a statement on Wednesday.
Foreign diplomats say they are watching the situation, stressing the importance of the rule of the law to the city's international reputation.
A separate legal system, along with extensive personal freedoms, is part of the "one country, two systems" formula under which Britain handed Hong Kong back to China.
The move is likely to pre-empt a court case under way that could disqualify the two pro-independence lawmakers yet to be sworn in to the Legislative Council.
Yau Wai-ching, 25, and Baggio Leung, 30, had their swearing-in oaths invalidated last month over language and a banner that was deemed derogatory to China.
The Hong Kong government has asked the courts to disqualify the two on the basis that they declined to take their oaths of office and do not comply with the Basic Law.
The Hong Kong government statement said the committee would discuss an article in the Basic Law requiring legislators to "swear allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China".
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said the government was paying close attention to the issue, but refused to elaborate when queried repeatedly at a news conference.
"After the interpretation happens, we will comment for sure," he said.
Hong Kong's Chief Justice Geoffrey Ma told media he would not comment due to the court case.
Hong Kong University law professor Simon Young warned of a troubling disconnect between Beijing, which wanted action, and the Hong Kong government, which preferred to let the city’s legal system deal with the issue.
During the hearing, a government lawyer said the dispute "can and should be" resolved by the Hong Kong judicial system, echoing the position of Justice Secretary Rimsky Yuen.
"We have never been in this situation before ... and my worry is that if they act with too much urgency with an interpretation, there could be flaws that will mean a second and third interpretation would be needed," Young said.
It would be difficult for a sweeping constitutional interpretation to deal with all the gray areas and nuances of local laws, which provide for extensive freedoms, he said.
New lawmaker Leung, speaking on Wednesday, said Chinese intervention would destroy Hong Kong's autonomy.
"Our whole election system cannot be messed around like this, even though it is already handicapped," he said.
"If this logic stands, what's the point of having elections? Why don't we just ask Beijing to nominate people for us?"

MELBOURNE Several hundred people rallied in the suburbs of Melbourne on Saturday, after a proposal to house refugees locally drew protest by far right anti-Islam groups and counter protests.
Political debate around Australia's hardline policy toward asylum seekers has been heated recently, with the conservative government last week announcing plans to permanently ban asylum seekers who attempted to reach Australia by boat from permanently entering under any visa category.
Dozens of people belonging to the anti-Islam groups rallied on Saturday against a proposal to house 120 refugees from Syria and Iraq, at a housing facility for elderly citizens in the Melbourne suburb of Eltham.
"They (the elderly citizens) are a bit concerned about it but they will just wait and see," John Conroy a resident of the aged-care facility said.
A heavy police presence separated the group from more than 100 people rallying in favor of the proposal. Previous protests between anti-immigration and pro-immigration groups have led to violent clashes.
Australia's current policy of sending asylum seekers who arrive in Australian waters by boat offshore to Papua New Guinea and Nauru, where their status as refugees is confirmed or rejected, has bipartisan support in the Australian parliament.
Last year the government announced a one-off intake of 12,000 refugees fleeing the conflict in Iraq and Syria, saying that ethnic minorities from those countries would be given priority.
Far right political parties are on the rise in Australia, with the controversial One Nation party surprising many by winning four Senate seats at the country's national elections in July.

CAIRO An Egyptian judge who tried former president Mohamed Mursi in 2015 survived an assassination attempt on Friday when a parked car exploded as his vehicle drove by, the Interior Ministry said.
The target was Judge Ahmed Aboul Fotouh, who presides over a felony court in a district of Cairo. The blast caused no injuries, the ministry said in a statement.
Judges, policemen and other senior officials have increasingly been targeted by radical Islamists angered by the hefty prison sentences imposed on members of the now-outlawed Muslim Brotherhood.
A newly-emerged militant group, the Hasam Movement, claimed responsibility for Friday's bombing, which occurred in the eastern Cairo neighborhood of Nasr City.
"The Hasam Movement's central bombing squad targeted the regime's dog and one of hell's judges Ahmed Aboul Fotouh using a car bomb near his house," the group said in a statement.
"To every unjust judge you still have a chance to think it through and leave this dirty swamp that is unfairly referred to as the judiciary."
Aboul Fotouh was one of three judges on a panel that in April 2015 sentenced Mursi, also a senior official in the Brotherhood, to 20 years in jail after finding him guilty of inciting violence that led to the death of 10 people in clashes with security forces in December 2012.
The Brotherhood, which says it is a peaceful organization, won Egypt's first free elections after the 2011 uprising that ended Hosni Mubarak's 30-year rule.
But Mursi, its presidential candidate, was himself deposed after mass protests against his rule and replaced in 2013 by the then-head of the armed forces who is now the president, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.
Sisi has since overseen a crackdown on the opposition in which hundreds of Brotherhood supporters have been killed and thousands, including Mursi, jailed or sentenced to death.
Hasam - an acronym in Arabic for the Forearms of Egypt Movement that doubles as the word for decisiveness - has claimed seven attacks since July, including the one on Friday.
It says it is responsible for an attempt to assassinate of a senior prosecutor with a car bomb and an attempt to gun down Egypt's former top Muslim cleric. The group also killed a senior police chief earlier this year.
The group's statements mix Islamist rhetoric with anti-government slogans, setting it apart from jihadist groups such as Islamic State, which is leading an Islamist insurgency in North Sinai and has killed hundreds of soldiers and police.
The Interior Ministry said on Friday it had arrested members of Hasam and another new militant group, along with weapons, explosives and evidence that the organizations had been set up by the Muslim Brotherhood. There was no immediate comment from the Brotherhood.

CAIRO Egyptian authorities said on Friday they had arrested members of two recently emerged militant groups, along with weapons, explosives and evidence that the organizations had been set up by the Muslim Brotherhood.
Police detained five leaders and other members of the Hasam Movement and Louwaa al-Thawra, the Interior Ministry said - both groups that have claimed responsibility for assassination attempts on judges, policemen and military officers.
There was no immediate comment from either organization or from the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, which says it is a peaceful movement and accuses the government of abuses.
The Brotherhood won Egypt's first free elections after the 2011 uprising that ended Hosni Mubarak's 30-year rule.
But the Brotherhood leader who became president, Mohamed Mursi, was himself deposed after mass protests against his rule and replaced by the army's Abdel Fattah al-Sisi in 2013.
Sisi has since overseen a crackdown on opposition in which hundreds of Brotherhood supporters were killed and thousands, including Mursi, jailed or sentenced to death.
Both Hasam - an acronym in Arabic for the Forearms of Egypt Movement which doubles as the word for decisiveness - and  Louwaa al-Thawra, or the Revolution Brigade, have claimed responsibility for attacks, saying they are taking revenge for the government crackdown.
Earlier on Friday, a judge who tried Mursi survived an assassination attempt when a parked car exploded as his vehicle drove by. Hasam claimed responsibility for the attack and threatened other judges.
Public Prosecutor Hisham Barakat, who referred many Brotherhood leaders to trial, was killed in June 2015 by a car bomb. The Interior Ministry said on Friday it found letters from Brotherhood leaders admitting it carried out the assassination.
Also on Friday, a senior Egyptian general was shot dead by militants on Friday near his home in North Sinai where an Islamic State insurgency is raging, the second such incident in as many weeks.
Louwaa al-Thawra had claimed responsibility for a similar attack on Oct. 22.
An Islamist insurgency in the rugged and thinly populated Sinai Peninsula gained pace after the military overthrew Mursi. Hundreds of soldiers and police have been killed.

CAIRO Islamic State claimed responsibility for a car bomb in the southeastern Turkish city of Diyarbakir on Friday that killed eight people and wounded more than 100, the group's Amaq news agency said.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said earlier on Friday that Kurdish militants were responsible for the attack, and that one suspected member of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) was also killed in the blast.

AMMAN Three U.S. military trainers were shot dead in Jordan on Friday when their car failed to stop at the gate of a military base and was fired on by Jordanian security forces, a Jordanian military source said.
The incident occurred at the Prince Faisal air base in the south of Jordan, which is a close strategic ally of the United States. Two trainers died immediately and the third later in hospital. A Jordanian army guard was also shot and wounded.
"There was an exchange of fire at the entrance to the base after an attempt by the trainers' vehicle to enter the gate without heeding orders of the guards to stop," the military source said. "An investigation is now under way to know exactly what happened."
Another Jordanian security source said it was not possible to rule out political motives in the incident at an air base, where dozens of U.S. trainers work alongside Jordanians.
A third Jordanian source who requested anonymity said authorities were examining reports of friction among the U.S. trainers and Jordanian army officers that might offer clues helping to explain the shooting. He did not elaborate.
The base where the incident occurred is in the heart of the traditional Bedouin region of Jordan where radical Sunni Muslim influence has grown over the last decade.
Several incidents over the past year have jolted the Arab kingdom, which has been relatively unscathed by the uprisings, civil wars and Islamist militancy that have swept the Middle East since 2011.
In November 2015, a Jordanian army officer shot dead two U.S. government security contractors and a South African at a U.S.-funded police training facility near Amman before being gunned down.
The incident embarrassed Jordanian authorities, who did not publicly disclose the motive of the assassin. The gunman was later said by security sources to have been a sympathizer of the Islamic State militant group with strong anti-Western feelings.

WORRYING INCIDENT
"What is worrying is that if this (Friday's shooting) turns out to be deliberate it would be much more damaging than if this was a suicide or terror attack on a base because it was perpetrated by someone within the Jordanian military," another security source told Reuters on condition of anonymity.
U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Reuters they were reviewing the incident and could not rule out the possibility of a deliberate attack. One said there were Americans in the convoy who were unharmed in the incident.
The White House said on Friday that it would work with Jordan to determine the circumstances around the shooting.
"We will certainly want to draw on the kind of cooperation that the U.S. has with Jordan to get to the bottom of what exactly happened," White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters during a briefing.
Many ordinary Jordanians harbor strong anti-American sentiment over Washington's strong support for Israel and its military interventions in the Middle East.
Jordan is among a few Arab states that have taken part in a U.S.-led air campaign against Islamic State (IS) militants holding territory in Syria. But many Jordanians oppose their country's involvement, saying it has caused violent deaths of fellow Muslims and raised security threats inside Jordan.
Officials worry about radical Islam's growing profile in Jordan and support in impoverished areas for militant groups.
Apart from the fatal shooting carried out by the Jordanian army officer a year ago, six Jordanian border guards were killed in June by an IS suicide bomber who drove a car at speed across the border from Syria and rammed it into a U.S.-funded military post.
Jordan hosts several hundred U.S. contractors in a military cooperation program which includes the stationing of U.S. F-16 fighter jets that use Jordanian airfields to hit Islamic State positions in neighboring Syria.
Since the start of the Syrian conflict in 2011, Washington has spent millions of dollars to help Jordan set up an elaborate surveillance system known as the Border Security Programme to stem infiltration by militants from Syria and Iraq.
U.S. officials say that aid to Jordan, one of the largest recipients of U.S. foreign military assistance, is expected to rise to $800 million in 2016 and grow in future years.

WASHINGTON Vatican-convened talks between Venezuela's government and opposition are the last, best chance to find a peaceful solution to the country's political impasse, U.S. Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs Tom Shannon said on Friday.
In his first remarks since visiting Caracas on Monday, Shannon said Washington would support the talks "as long as it remains viable."
"From our point of view (the dialogue) really is the last best effort to try to find a negotiated, peaceful solution to this," he told reporters. "Absent this dialogue process, Venezuela will find itself in a state in which both the government and the opposition will have to measure themselves through their ability to put people on to the streets."
He said that this kind of mobilization would be "unpredictable and can be very dangerous."
Shannon traveled to Caracas on Oct. 31, a day after initial talks led by the Vatican. He has spearheaded efforts by the Obama administration to ease tensions with Venezuela, which often accuses Washington of trying to topple President Nicolas Maduro's government.
Maduro's adversaries accuse him of creating a dictatorship by blocking a recall referendum on his rule and of illegally overriding the legislature, which was taken over by the opposition in a landslide election last year.
The opposition insists the government allow the referendum, release dozens of jailed opposition activists and respect congressional decisions.
There is no indication Maduro will agree to any of the opposition's demands, and in a speech on Thursday he criticized their timetable and urged patience.
"It is a fragile but very important process, and it's a good faith effort to find a peaceful way out of the political impasse that has crippled Venezuela," said Shannon, who described the negotiations as "the only game in town."
The Vatican, which was instrumental in restoring relations between the United States and Cuba last year, faces a difficult situation in Venezuela, given the few signs of agreement between Maduro and the opposition.
Shannon described the initial meeting as "a huge step" but said the opposition wanted more gestures from the government ahead of the next round of talks on Nov. 11. This included a significant release of political prisoners, he added.
"How the issue of prisoners is dealt with is obviously going to be key to the success of this process going forward," he said, adding that the sides would try to agree on an electoral agenda.

UNITED NATIONS African states launched a bid at the United Nations on Friday to halt the work of the first U.N. independent investigator appointed to help protect gay and transgender people worldwide from violence and discrimination.
The 47-member U.N. Human Rights Council, based in Geneva, created the position in June and in September appointed Vitit Muntarbhorn of Thailand, who has a three-year mandate to investigate abuses against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people.
In an unusual move, African states circulated a draft resolution on Friday in the 193-member U.N. General Assembly third committee, which deals with human rights, calling for consultations on the legality of the creation of the mandate.
"We therefore call for the suspension of the activities of the appointed Independent Expert pending the determination of this issue," Botswana's U.N. Ambassador Charles Ntwaagae, speaking for the 54-member Africa group, told the committee.
He said the group was concerned "non-internationally agreed notions such as sexual orientation and gender identity are given attention, to the detriment of issues of paramount importance such as the right to development and the racism agenda."
Ntwaagae said that sexual orientation and gender identity "are not and should not be linked to existing international human rights instruments."
The third committee could vote as early as Tuesday on the draft resolution, diplomats said. If adopted it would then need to be voted upon later this year by the General Assembly.
Being gay is a crime in at least 73 countries, the U.N. has said. The issue of gay rights consistently sparks heated debate at the United Nations.
In 2014, U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon said the U.N. would recognize all same-sex marriages of its staff, allowing them to receive U.N. benefits. Russia unsuccessfully tried to overturn it last year, with Saudi Arabia, China, Iran, India, Egypt, Pakistan, and Syria among 43 states that supported Moscow.
In February the African Group, the 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the 25-member "Group of Friends of the Family," led by Egypt, Belarus and Qatar, protested the launch of six U.N. stamps promoting LGBT equality.
Then a group of 51 Muslim states blocked 11 gay and transgender organizations from officially attending a high-level U.N. meeting in June on ending AIDS, sparking a protest by the United States, Canada and the European Union.

BAGHDAD Iraqi security forces advancing north along the Tigris river towards Mosul reached the last major town before the city on Friday, a police commander said.
Major-General Thamer al-Husseini said federal police forces entered a district of Hammam al-Alil, about 20 km (12 miles) south of the Islamic State stronghold of Mosul which Iraqi army forces have been attacking for several days.
Islamic State fighters retreating north to Mosul have forced thousands of residents of villages and towns such as Hammam al-Alil to travel alongside them as human shields against air strikes, villagers have told Reuters.
The United Nations said the militants transported 1,600 abducted civilians from Hammam al-Alil to the town of Tal Afar west of Mosul on Tuesday, and took another 150 families from the town to Mosul the next day.
They told residents to hand over children, especially boys above the age of nine, in an apparent recruitment drive for child soldiers, U.N. human rights spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani said.
"Our units entered the Salahiya district of Hammam al-Alil," Husseini told Iraqi television. "We have Hammam al-Alil covered from more than one side and I think within hours we will be able to announce to the Iraqi people the clearing of Hammam al-Alil and surrounding areas".
The police forces trying to capture the town are part of an Iraqi force advancing on the southern front towards Mosul.
Special forces who swept in from the east have already entered the city, while peshmerga forces are sealing off northeastern flanks and mainly Shi'ite Popular Mobilisation forces are trying to cut off the western side.

ABIDJAN Ivory Coast's top court on Friday validated the results of a referendum backing a new constitution that President Alassane Ouattara says will help the country turn the page after a decade of political turmoil.
"The constitutional project is adopted," said Mamadou Kone, president of the constitutional court. He rejected a request to annul the referendum from several political parties who boycotted the vote, including that of former president Laurent Gbagbo.
An overwhelming majority of voters in Sunday's vote supported the constitution, which institutes a new post of vice president among other changes. Turnout was around 42 percent.
The issue of the constitution, drafted under military rule after a 1999 coup, was at the heart of Ivory Coast's upheaval.
Its most controversial clause said that both parents of presidential candidates must be natural-born Ivorians, a swipe at northerners, many of whom, like Ouattara, have family ties that straddle the borders with Burkina Faso and Mali.
The new constitution scraps that provision, which was used to disqualify Ouattara from an election in 2000, and now only one parent must be Ivorian.
Ivory Coast, the world's top producer of cocoa, has become one of Africa's rising economic stars since 2011 when a civil war ended.

LONDON Prime Minister Theresa May told European Union leaders on Friday she was confident a court ruling that could delay Britain's departure from the bloc would be overturned and said she would stick to her Brexit timetable.
May told German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker she believed her case that the government - not parliament - should be responsible for triggering Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty to begin the divorce would win in Britain's highest court, a spokesman said.
She also told French President Francois Hollande and European Council President Donald Tusk that the British government was sticking to its plan to invoke Article 50 by the end of March.
May is determined to carry out what she calls "the will of the people", but a High Court ruling on Thursday that parliament must approve the process raised doubts over whether she can meet her deadline and even prompted suggestions of an early election.
Her focus on ensuring the government has the lead on breaking with the EU has incensed some lawmakers. On Friday, a member of her ruling Conservative Party said he had resigned over "irreconcilable policy differences" with May.
"The focus of the government is on the Supreme Court case, winning that case and proceeding with Article 50," May's spokesman told reporters, referring to an appeal against the ruling that is expected to be heard early next month.
"Clearly we are disappointed by yesterday's decision. We'd rather not be in this position but we are, so ... the key is our commitment to triggering Article 50 no later. The end of March remains the target for the government."
The spokesman declined to comment on whether the government was now drafting contingency plans for a possible failure in the Supreme Court, which would allow parliament to delay any move to start the divorce process.
"What is important here is that we had a referendum, there was an overwhelming result in favor of leaving the European Union, and that is what the government must do," he said.
The foreign minister, Boris Johnson, told his German counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier not to read too much into the court decision. Steinmeier said: "Further delay isn't in anyone's interests."
Parliament is unlikely to defy the referendum vote by blocking Brexit. But if - as one aide to May said was the logical conclusion of the court ruling - she is forced to draft legislation for both houses to consider, her March deadline looks tight, several lawmakers said.
That could force her to call an early election, they said, a move her aides have repeatedly rejected. Bookmakers odds on an election next year were cut after the court decision but 2020 was still the favorite date.

"ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE"
The court ruling has spurred hope among investors and pro-EU lawmakers that parliament will now put pressure on May's government - which has three high profile euroskeptic ministers in key roles including Johnson - to soften any plans for a "hard Brexit", or a clean break with the EU's lucrative single market.
But it has enraged pro-Brexit campaigners and Britain's euroskeptic newspapers, with the Daily Mail calling the three judges who handed down the ruling "Enemies of the people".
The ruling is stirring passions in Britain just over four months after 52 percent of voters supported leaving the EU in a referendum which deepened splits in the country and gave voice to resentment - mirrored across Western Europe and the United States - with a ruling elite seen as out of touch.
Some lawmakers who had backed staying in the bloc were criticized on social media, accused of trying to stop Brexit.
"Tolerance must win over hate and scaremongering. I'm not alone in standing up for the 48 percent who also have the right to be heard and listened to," said Anna Soubry, a pro-EU lawmaker from May's ruling Conservative Party.
May had wanted to move on Brexit as quickly as possible - keen to show that although she campaigned quietly for Britain to remain in the EU she would "deliver" on the referendum.
There was clear frustration among her aides that the court had put a question mark over a schedule May has been outlining to EU leaders for weeks after some, especially French President Francois Hollande, called for Britain to move quickly.
May's tough stance seemed to be behind a decision by Conservative lawmaker Stephen Phillips, who backed Britain leaving the EU but wants parliament to have a say, to quit.
"It has become clear to me over the last few months that my growing and very significant policy differences with the current government mean that I am unable properly to represent the people who elected me," he said in a statement.

BERLIN Germany's foreign minister told his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Friday that Europe would not give Britain an easy ride in Brexit talks, saying his priority was to keep the remaining 27 EU member states united.
Johnson, a leading advocate of Britain leaving the European Union, struck a conciliatory note on his first visit to Berlin as foreign secretary, saying he thought Brexit could be a "win-win" for Britain and the EU.
But his host Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who has been outspoken in his criticism of Johnson and other Brexit campaigners in the past, delivered a frosty warning that Britain should not delay the start of exit talks and that London would not be allowed to cherry-pick in the negotiations.
"Dear Boris, you have to understand that our priority is keeping the EU-27 together," Steinmeier told a joint news conference.
"Our view is clear and we've said it before - we can't talk about easing the conditions for access to the single market on the one hand and allowing Britain to reject those elements it sees as unattractive on the other."
Johnson has irked the German government by dismissing as "baloney" the link between the EU's core principle of free movement, which eurosceptics say makes it impossible to control immigration to Britain, and access to its tariff-free single market, which benefits British businesses. EU leaders have said repeatedly that Britain cannot have one without the other.
He started off the news conference in German with a twist on a famous speech by U.S. President John F. Kennedy, declaring  "Ich bin nicht ein Berliner" (I am not a Berliner), but noting that his wife was born there.
He said the bilateral relationship was of "absolutely fundamental importance" and a guarantor of peace, stability and economic prosperity in Europe.
Johnson said the British government would stick with its plans to trigger divorce proceedings by the end of March despite a court ruling on Thursday that demands the government consult parliament before invoking Article 50 of the EU treaty to serve notice to its 27 partners.
"I don't think it will interfere with the timetable for that process," Johnson said, noting that the government planned to appeal the ruling and that there was no question of Britain changing course on Brexit.
Switching briefly into German again, he cautioned against reading too much into the "Sturm und Drang" (Storm and Stress) of the tumultuous debate in the British parliament.
Steinmeier, who kept a straight face, made clear: "A further delay isn't in anyone's interests".
Steinmeier said the two-year negotiation period set out by Article 50 might seem like a long time at first glance but was actually quite short given the complexity of the issues surrounding Britain's future relations with the EU.

ON BOARD AIR FORCE ONE The White House on Thursday urged Britain and the European Union to ensure a flexible and smooth "Brexit" process after a British court ruled the government needed parliamentary approval to start the process of Britain leaving the EU.
"We are aware of the decision by the United Kingdom's High Court. We are and will continue to work closely with officials in London, Brussels, and our international partners around the world to ensure continued economic stability, security and prosperity in Europe and beyond," White House spokesman Eric Schultz told reporters on Air Force One.
"We urge both the United Kingdom and the European Union in their negotiations ... to continue to be flexible, and work this out in a process that is smooth, pragmatic, transparent and productive," he said.
Schultz said President Barack Obama's administration would continue to actively monitor financial and economic developments and consult with international counterparts "to support financial stability and growth."


GENEVA At least 240 migrants have drowned off the coast of Libya within the last 48 hours, possibly as an unintended consequence of European efforts to stop people-smugglers and to train Libyan coastguards, the U.N.'s migration agency said.
Five rescue ships, coordinated by the Italian coastguard, were within sight of the migrants but, despite attempts to rescue them, most died, the International Organization for Migration's (IOM) chief spokesman, Leonard Doyle, said.
"Two rubber dinghies, which is what they are, rubber dinghies, packed with migrants, totaling over 300 we think in all ... have succumbed to the waves off Libya in very bad weather," he said.
Migrant arrivals in Italy surged to 27,388 in October, more than the two previous Octobers combined, and bringing this year's total to more than 158,000, IOM's Italy spokesman, Flavio di Giacomo, said.
Migrants have told the IOM that smugglers say European training of Libyan coastguards means that rescue missions will soon be handed over to Libya and so any rescued migrants will be taken ashore in Libya rather than in Italy, Giacomo said.
That might be causing the rush, despite the bad weather, he said.
According to Doyle, the use of dinghies, especially unsuitable for the long sea crossing in bad weather, was partly due to European navies capturing and destroying many of the fishing boats that smugglers had been using.
"In the absence of those boats and with the migrants determined to leave, and the smugglers interested in making money off them, they have been putting them in completely unsafe rubber dinghies," he said.
Survivors from one dinghy, whose passengers included about 20 women and six children, all believed to be from West Africa, said they set off from Libya at about 3 a.m. (0500 GMT) on Wednesday, but the boat sank after a few hours.
Twelve bodies were recovered, including three babies, and about 27 survived, di Giacomo said.
Another two women said they had survived the sinking of a second dinghy at about the same time. Theirs was carrying about 130 people, they said.
The IOM said the latest deaths meant 4,220 migrants had died in the Mediterranean so far this year, compared with 3,777 in the whole of 2015.
Separately, Italy's coastguard said rescuers pulled about 766 people to safety from boats in difficulty in the central Mediterranean on Thursday, and found the dead body of one woman.

TOGLIATTI, Russia The start of this year proved deadly for one unit of about 100 Russian fighters supporting President Bashar al-Assad's troops in northern Syria.
On Feb. 3, 38-year-old Maxim Kolganov was killed in a firefight with rebels near Aleppo when a bullet pierced his body armor and heart. Then, on March 9, the same unit came under shell-fire near Palmyra, and Sergei Morozov, also 38, was hit and died on the way to hospital.
Back in southern Russia, medals were delivered to their families: the order of bravery, with certificates signed by President Vladimir Putin. The medals, seen by Reuters, were intended to honor the sacrifice they had made for their country.
Except Kolganov and Morozov were not employed by the Russian state. They were in Syria as private contractors, a small part of an army of such people who are being deployed secretly by the Kremlin in Syria.
The deaths of Kolganov and Morozov, and others like them, have not been made public. Families say they were given little information and told not discuss the cases. In at least one case that Reuters uncovered, the family of a fighter killed in Syria received a payout of around $100,000 in compensation.
Officially, Russia is participating only in an air war over Syria with a small number of special forces on the ground. Moscow denies that its troops are involved in regular ground combat operations.
However, in interviews with more than a dozen people with direct knowledge of these deployments, Reuters has established that Russian fighters are playing a more substantial role in ground combat than that the role the Kremlin says is being played by the regular Russian military.
The sources described the Russian fighters as contractors or mercenaries, hired by a private company, rather than regular troops. But despite their unofficial status, according to these accounts, they operate in coordination with the Russian military and are given privileges back home normally available only to serving soldiers.
They fly to Syria on board Russian military aircraft which land at Russian bases. When they are injured, they are treated in hospitals reserved for the Russian military and get state medals, people interviewed by Reuters said.
Reuters was not able to determine the precise number of such Russian mercenaries fighting in Syria, nor the total number of casualties they have sustained, but three people familiar with the deployments said there were many units of a similar size to the one that included Kolganov and Morozov.
Neither the Kremlin nor the defense ministry responded to questions from Reuters. Reuters was unable to obtain comment from Syrian officials on the question of Russian mercenaries.
Reuters was not able to identify the company or companies that hired the fighters, or the source of any payments to the fighters or their families.
 
THE KREMLIN'S BIDDING
Under Russian law, it is illegal to work as a private military contractor in another country. However, Russian citizens have participated in wars across the former Soviet Union throughout the 25 years since it broke up in 1991.
In 2014, large numbers of Russians fought openly on behalf of pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine. Western countries say those rebel units were organized, paid and armed by Moscow; the Kremlin says any Russians there were independent volunteers.
Last year, Russia joined the war in Syria, its first conflict outside the borders of the former Soviet Union since the Cold War. Word got out among veterans of the Ukraine conflict that mercenaries were needed.
According to three people who knew Morozov and Kolganov, both had fought in Ukraine as part of the same unit that would eventually take them to Syria. It was led by a man who goes by the nomme de guerre "Vagner", who has become a leader of Russian mercenary forces in Syria, one of the sources said.
Little is known of his real identity. Two of Vagner's comrades say he had already traveled to Syria as a mercenary in 2013, before commanding his group of Russian fighters in eastern Ukraine. He then headed back to Syria, where Russia began its intervention in Sept. 2015.
A Russian-language website, Fontanka, has published what it says is the only known photo of him, a picture of a bald man in military fatigues striding near a helicopter. The website said his name was Dmitry Utkin. Reuters could not verify the image or the name.
One Ukrainian rebel commander who was close to the Vagner group in eastern Ukraine said many of the fighters there were tempted to fight in Syria because they had found it difficult to return to civilian life.
"I meet them now and see how much they have changed. I simply have nothing to discuss with them. They can't imagine any other life but war. That's why they go fight in Syria."
Morozov, the fighter who was killed near Palmyra, had returned from Ukraine to his home in southern Russia and dabbled in local politics.
He served as an aide to a member of parliament originally from his native city of Samara, Mikhail Degtyaryov. Degtyaryov told Reuters Morozov was a friend and confirmed that he had died in combat during the battle for Palmyra.
"Kapa", a former Russian officer and volunteer in the Ukraine conflict who asked to be identified only by a nomme de guerre, was friends with Morozov and also knew Kolganov and several other Russians who fought in Ukraine and went on to fight in Syria with the Vagner group. He is still in contact with some of them.
He said Morozov became frustrated when he attended a meeting of the far-right LDPR party, and no one listened to him. Morozov gave up lucrative business ventures to rejoin his Vagner comrades in Syria, Kapa said.
According to Kapa, Russian veterans of the Ukraine fighting were recruited for ground combat in Syria when it became clear that Syrians would not be able to hold ground without help, despite Russian air support.
"The Arabs are not warriors by nature, but are thrown together and told to storm high ground. They don't know how to storm it let alone conquer their instincts and move towards the bullets. How can you make them do it? Only by setting yourself as an example," Kapa said. "That's why our guys reinforced their units."
Asked if fighters in the group coordinated with the Russian defense ministry, Kapa said: "Of course".
According to two people who knew different fighters, they arrive in Syria via ships that land in the port of Tartous, leased by the Russian navy, or in military aircraft that land at Russia's Hmeymim air base in western Syria.
A doctor at a Russian military hospital told Reuters the wounded are evacuated to Russia on board military cargo planes and then treated in military hospitals.
The doctor, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he feared losing his job, said he had personally treated contractors injured in Syria, whose role there was clear from their conversations.
His hospital is officially meant to admit only serving military personnel, their family members or veterans who have served long careers in the military, a category his patients were too young to fit, the doctor said.
When Morozov and Kolganov were killed, their bodies were flown to Russia aboard military aircraft and delivered to a morgue used by the military in the southern city of Rostov, according to relatives and Morozov's friend Kapa.
A Reuters reporter saw the Order of Courage which was given posthumously to Kolganov. It was delivered to his family home in Togliatti, a city on the Volga river, by someone in civilian clothes who did not identify himself, according to relatives. Reuters has also seen a photograph of Morozov's Order of Courage, dated Sept. 7, 2016.
 
SECRECY
Kolganov never told his relatives where he was deployed, but pictures he sent contained clues. One of them, in which he posed under an orange tree, is now on the wall of his parents' house.
The family got proof he was in Syria only after his death, when they saw his passport with a Syrian stamp in it.
The people who informed the family by phone of his death, and the people who turned over the body in the Rostov morgue, did not explain where he was killed or who he had been working for, the relatives said. The people they interacted with did not identify themselves and told the family not to talk to reporters, the relatives said.
In another case, a 55-year-old Russian woman said her husband was killed this year while working as a military contractor in Syria. She did not want her name, or her husband's, to be published because she feared reprisals.
"They only told me about it after his death. A young man ... phoned and told me. And he also threatened me, so I would never tell anyone about it," she said. "They are scary people."
By contrast, Russian authorities do acknowledge some combat deaths among serving military personnel, though often with a delay and without keeping an official tally.
Reuters was unable to determine how many Russians have died in Syria. According to Kapa, the small unit that included Kolganov and Morozov has lost four fighters since the start of the Russian campaign in Syria, including its commander, killed in the same firefight as Morozov. Dozens have been wounded.
Reuters earlier reported that Russian major Sergei Chupov was killed in Syria on Feb. 8 He also belonged to the Vagner group, a person who knew him told Reuters.
The doctor at the military hospital who spoke to Reuters said that the surgical department where he works had treated six or seven Russian fighters back from Syria with combat injuries who were not serving Russian servicemen.
The overall number of wounded contractors treated at his hospital could be a few times higher, the doctor said. He also says he knows of at least two more hospitals in Moscow and Saint-Petersburg where contractors are treated.
 
BAGHDAD Iraqi Shi'ite forces fighting to cut off an Islamic State supply route west of Mosul made progress on Thursday but several cars were still able to leave the city, a spokesman said.
The leader of the Badr Organisation, the largest of the Shi'ite militias that make up the Hashid Shaabi (Popular Mobilisation) forces, had said earlier he hoped to seal off Mosul's western flank on Thursday.
"We are advancing slowly," Karim Nuri, a spokesman for the Hashid Shaabi told Reuters. "We witnessed some vehicles from a distance, withdrawing (from Mosul)".
It was not clear whether the cars were escaping the fighting in Mosul, where Iraqi troops have breached Islamic State defenses on the eastern side of the city, or seeking to reinforce the Islamic State-held town of Tal Afar to the west.
The Iraq army, security forces and Kurdish peshmerga forces have been advancing from the south, east and north of Mosul since launching an offensive on Oct 17 to recapture the city, the biggest city controlled by Islamic State in Iraq or Syria.
They were joined five days ago by the Popular Mobilisation forces, which launched their offensive towards Tal Afar on Mosul's western flank.
Tal Afar lies about 55 km (35 miles) west of Mosul, on the way to Islamic State-controlled regions of neighboring Syria. Cutting off the western side of the city and the routes to Tal Afar will leave Islamic State enclosed on four axes.
Badr leader Hadi al-Amiri said earlier that he hoped to cut off Islamic State's main western supply route out of Mosul.
"Today, God willing, is the completion of the first stage of the Hashid operations - that is cutting the supply route of the enemy between Tal Afar and the Muhalabiya district, reaching to Mosul," Amiri told Iraqi television.
Amiri said the militias also intended ultimately to cut off the main highway between Mosul and Tal Afar, but said that the Muhalabiya route was the priority because it was the one used by the militants since they took over Mosul two years ago.
"This is the area Daesh (Islamic State) entered Mosul from," he said. "Severing this road means to completely cut off the enemy's supply lines and surround them."
Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi told his fighters in an audio tape on Thursday there would be no retreat from the Mosul assault, and that victory would be theirs in the "total war" with their enemies.

BRUSSELS Belgium's immigration minister has said he is ready to sell off his office furniture to pay daily fines rather than honor a court order to issue tourist visas to a Syrian family from war-battered Aleppo.
Theo Francken's antics on Facebook, where he posted a photo of himself pretending to work in a bare attic after bailiffs delivered the court order, have angered lawyers for the family, which wants to escape Aleppo where fighting has grown intense.
"He is placing himself above the law," counsel Thomas Mitevoy told DH newspaper on Thursday after the Flemish nationalist politician joked he would let bailiffs empty his office rather than pay the 4,000 euros ($4,440) a day which his ministry was ordered to pay until it issues the four visas.
Offered accommodation in Belgium by a local family whom he had come to know, a Syrian man reached Lebanon from Aleppo and applied at the Belgian consulate there for a short-stay visa for himself, his wife and two children. When it was refused, the would-be Belgian hosts appealed to a local court and won.
Francken, however, said allowing a Syrian family to come through the normal tourist visa application procedure would set off a flood of similar requests and is appealing the ruling.
"We have managed the asylum crisis well and things are under control. We are really not going to throw our gates open wide through our embassies and consulates," Francken told reporters.
Belgium, with a population of 11 million, had some 7,500 asylum requests from Syrians last year, when large numbers of people sought refuge in Europe by risking dangerous sea crossings from Turkey to the Greek islands.
Lawyers for the Syrian family at the heart of the row with Francken say they do not want to pay smugglers and take risks but to travel legally.
($1 = 0.9011 euros)

MOSCOW A former dancer at Russia's famous Bolshoi Theatre who was jailed for organizing an acid attack on his boss has been allowed to attend ballet classes at the theater, a Bolshoi spokeswoman said on Thursday.
The Bolshoi soloist Pavel Dmitrichenko was sentenced in December 2013 to six years in prison over the attack, in which a masked assailant threw sulphuric acid in the face of Sergei Filin, who was then the theater's artistic director. Dmitrichenko was freed on parole in May.
A fellow defendant was sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment over the attack, which lifted the lid on poisonous rivalries over roles, money and power at one of Russia's most prominent cultural institutions.
"The administration of the Bolshoi Theatre decided to meet the request of Pavel Dmitrichenko and to allow him to attend a morning ballet class. This in no way means that he will work for the Bolshoi in the future," the theater spokeswoman said.
After the attack Filin - who had himself been a lead Bolshoi dancer in the past - was partially blinded. He remained artistic director until July 2015 when his contract expired. Currently, he heads the Bolshoi's young choreographers' studio.
The head of the Bolshoi, Vladimir Urin, told Russian media that Dmitrichenko had not rejoined the theater's staff.
"The main question is whether he will be able to regain the fitness necessary for a Bolshoi dancer," he was quoted as saying by Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - An activist whose petition earlier this year triggered a Tanzanian high court ruling against child marriage said social transformation was needed to end the longstanding custom many families use as a "survival system" - not least signing up men.
"Changing the law is not the ultimate end to child marriage," said Rebeca Gyumi, founder of the Msichana Initiative, a Tanzanian charity promoting girls' rights.
"Changing mindsets and trying to trigger the shift of customs and traditions is the next thing we are planning to do," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in London.
The High Court of Tanzania ruled in July that two sections of the 1971 Marriage Act, which allow girls to marry at 15 with parental consent and at 14 with the permission of a court, were unconstitutional.
The landmark ruling, effectively raising the legal age of marriage for girls to 18, was made in response to a petition by Gyumi who argued that the act violated girls' rights to equality, dignity and access to education, as granted by the constitution.
The real challenge is to shift attitudes in communities where parents marry off their daughters so their sons can to go to school or to ease the economic burden on their families, Gyumi said.
"The issue is deep-rooted in a male-dominated, patriarchal system where a girl child is not really treated as an equal person," she said in an interview.
She described child marriage as "a sort of a survival system" in a society where poverty is entrenched. "Sometimes parents see marrying their kids as the only solution to the issues they have," she added.
Tanzania has one of the highest rates of child marriage globally, with nearly two in five girls getting married before their 18th birthday, according to campaign group Girls Not Brides. It says the practice is particularly prevalent in rural areas where girls as young as 11 are married.
Child marriage deprives girls of education and opportunities, and puts them at risk of serious injury or death if they have children before their bodies are ready. They are also more vulnerable to domestic and sexual violence.
Gyumi said if Tanzania capitalized on the momentum of the ruling, in 20 to 30 years it should be possible to reduce the number of girls being married off early.
"We have to change the story from Tanzania being among the countries with the highest percentage of child marriages to being the country that really tries to solve the issue by changing the law and educating the community," she said.

ROLE FOR MEN
Gyumi said men's involvement was essential for the campaign against child marriage to be successful.
"Men are very powerful. If we are able to convince them to talk about child marriage not being a good thing, then we have a really strong message," she said.
"Sometimes it's not just about what you're saying but who is saying it. Women alone can't win this war."
Each year more than 15 million girls worldwide are married before they turn 18, Girls Not Brides says.
In June, the U.N. Human Rights Council adopted a resolution calling for an end to child, early and forced marriage, and recognizing child marriage as a violation of human rights.
Ending child marriage by 2030 is one of the targets contained in the new Sustainable Development Goals adopted by world leaders at a U.N. summit last year.

SANTIAGO Support is growing for an independent, left-leaning senator to run for president in Chile's 2017 election, a poll released on Thursday showed, in a race with two ex-presidents.
The GfK Adimark poll showed rapidly increasing support for Alejandro Guillier, a journalist turned anti-establishment senator who was little known just a few months ago.
When asked who they would choose as president if elections were held this week, 15 percent of 1,056 Chileans surveyed from Oct. 7-27 named Guillier, up from 5 percent in August.
Guillier, 63, is gaining on Sebastian Pinera, the top choice with 20 percent of support. Center-right Pinera led the country from 2010 to 2014 and is the favorite to secure the opposition right-wing coalition ticket in the November 2017 election.
Support for Ricardo Lagos, a moderate leftist who led Chile from 2000 to 2006, remains low at 5 percent, although his campaign received a boost over the weekend when Isabel Allende, seen as a key rival to represent the governing coalition, said she would not run.
Allende, the daughter of deposed socialist leader Salvador Allende, had expressed an interest in running, but her popularity has recently declined.
Voters have turned sour on President Michelle Bachelet's government after a series of corruption scandals, an ambitious reform drive that has fallen flat with many Chileans, and weak economic growth.
Bachelet's coalition was punished in recent local elections, and abstention was high.
But as Chileans have become disillusioned with mainstream politics, Guillier scores highly on trust factors, polls show.
Leaving journalism for politics in 2013, Guillier has painted himself as a change from the status quo and a "transition" toward the next generation, a cluster of popular ex-student leaders who are too young to run for the highest office.
On his website, operational since Wednesday, Guillier emphasizes rebuilding trust and flags a meeting with former Uruguayan President Jose Mujica, a leftist who championed progressive, sometimes unconventional policies.
Lagos, a 78-year-old political veteran known for the stand he took against ex-dictator Augusto Pinochet in the 1980s, is conscious of his political legacy and will likely withdraw if he sees a high chance of losing, political scientist Kenneth Bunker tweeted on Thursday.
The GfK Adimark poll has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.


LIBREVILLE Gabonese officials detained 20 employees at the headquarters of the Echos du Nord opposition newspaper on Thursday and took them away for questioning, staff at the paper told Reuters.
OPEC member Gabon has faced international scrutiny, including from former colonial power France, since President Ali Bongo was declared winner of a disputed Aug. 27 election.
Echos du Nord's Editor-in-Chief Desire Ename said that officials from Gabon's DGDI, a government department that according to its website "acts preventively against any threat interior or exterior" had taken the action.
"The employees were verbally threatened and seized and we now have no means of communicating with them," he told Reuters by telephone from Paris, where he said he had moved in 2014 for safety reasons.
Ename's paper is regularly critical of Bongo, whose family has ruled the Central African country for nearly 50 years.
Marky Edzang, a journalist at the paper who arrived at the scene several minutes after the event, said armed men had taken all of the staff present away in military vans.
Government spokesman Alain Claude Bilie By Nze, who could not immediately be reached for comment, told local journalists that nine people had been detained for questioning as part of an investigation. This followed an article referring to an "imminent military coup d'etat", he added.
Several protesters contesting the August poll result were killed by security forces during a rare outbreak of violence which also saw Gabon's parliament set alight.
Since then, a doctor who helped treat and catalog the injuries of protesters after the election was also arrested for several days in October.

MEXICO CITY Mexico is readying a contingency plan for an "adverse" result in the U.S. presidential election, said Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens, who has previously stated that a victory for Donald Trump would hit his country like a hurricane.
"If the adverse situation materializes it's foreseeable that the Mexican authorities respond in some way," Carstens told Milenio television late on Wednesday. "It's a contingency plan that we're discussing with the Finance Ministry. We hope we don't have to use it."
Without naming Republican nominee Trump, Carstens said there was an "adverse" candidate for Mexico in Tuesday's U.S. election, which is due to be held on Nov. 8. He also noted there could be market volatility following the vote, regardless of whether Trump or Democrat Hillary Clinton wins.
"Either way, we the authorities would need to adjust our policy position if it's necessary," he said.
Carstens did not provide details of the contingency plan.
Trump's threats to tear up a trade deal with Mexico, build a massive border wall and his attacks on U.S. companies investing there have spooked investors, hurting the peso.
Interest rate increases and interventions in the market have been Mexico's main tools to support the peso.
Senior officials from the Bank of Mexico as well as the Finance and Economy ministries were holding discussions on Wednesday about U.S. election scenarios, an official said ahead of the talks, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Economists at 4Cast said on Thursday they believed the Bank of Mexico will attempt to smooth the transition to a Trump presidency using a combination of currency reserves and rate hikes, possibly to the tune of 150 basis points.
On Wednesday, Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said when volatility is caused by global concerns, such as jitters over the U.S. election outcome, intervening in the market would be like "pouring drops of water into the ocean."
"It is not an instrument that would work," he said.
Carstens has said monetary policy could change depending on the U.S. election result, noting that a favorable outcome for Mexico might obviate the need for the Bank of Mexico to follow any impending U.S. rate hike.
On Sept. 30 Carstens likened a Trump win to a hurricane hitting Mexico, and said a Clinton victory would be better for the economy.
Maintaining Mexican inflation close to its target rate of 3 percent would be the central bank's "guiding principle" going forward, Carstens said.

NEW YORK/NEW DELHI The leadership of a World Health Organization (WHO) treaty on tobacco control has proposed barring delegates with ties to state-owned tobacco firms from its conference next week, tightening its application of rules to shut out the industry from policy making.
That would include delegates employed by state-owned tobacco companies or those otherwise "working to advance the interests of the tobacco industry," according to an internal communication document seen by Reuters.
The proposal, if adopted at the conference of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) in India, could restrict delegations sent by countries like China and Vietnam, where governments own cigarette companies and have in the past sent representatives linked to the industry.
Any such members of the 180 delegations at the Nov. 7-12 conference near New Delhi "would be requested to leave the premises", according to the Oct. 17 "note verbale", an official diplomatic communication, from the WHO FCTC secretariat on behalf of the treaty's leadership group to its parties.
The FCTC, the world's first international public health treaty, states explicitly that health policies need to be made independent of tobacco industry influence.
Its governing conferences have in the past ejected members of the public and the press after they were believed to have tobacco industry connections.
Yet up until now, the treaty's leaders had not moved to bar employees of state-owned tobacco companies.
At the last WHO FCTC conference, in Moscow in 2014, China's 18-person delegation had four members from the "State Tobacco Monopoly Administration".
At the 2012 conference, in Seoul, two of eight Vietnamese delegates were from the "Vietnam Tobacco Association".
When asked about the letter, a Vietnamese government official who declined to be identified told Reuters there would be no industry representatives in their delegation.
Reuters was unable to immediately contact China's State Tobacco Monopoly Administration for comment out of office hours.

FINAL DECISION YET TO BE MADE
FCTC secretariat official Guangyuan Liu on Thursday confirmed the "note verbale" was sent to parties recently.
When asked about the composition of China's delegation, Liu, team leader for governance and international cooperation at the secretariat, said: "We are still in contact with China and a final decision has not (been) made yet."
"The COP (conference of parties) eventually will make the final decision," Liu told reporters in New Delhi.
The proposed restriction highlights a growing battle between the industry and backers of the treaty, which went into effect in 2005 to guide national laws and policies in an effort to curb tobacco use, which kills an estimated 6 million people a year worldwide.
The global tobacco industry is estimated to be worth nearly $800 billion this year.
The International Tobacco Growers Association, a non-profit group partly funded by big international cigarette companies, said the proposal was "beyond the wildest imagination".
António Abrunhosa, chief executive of the group and a Portuguese tobacco grower, said in an email to Reuters that such a step was "unthinkable for a United Nations agency".
John Stewart, deputy campaigns director at Corporate Accountability International, a Boston-based advocacy group that has supported tobacco-control efforts, praised the proposed restrictions.
"The tobacco industry has really forced parties and the secretariat into a corner," he said in an interview.
"This is a bold good-government action to ensure that the treaty space, the place where public health policies will save millions of lives, is free of tobacco industry intimidation."
Issues for debate at the conference include alternative livelihoods for tobacco farmers, e-cigarette regulation and trade and investment issues.
The secretariat earlier wrote to the treaty's party nations asking them to exclude people with tobacco interests from their delegations.
In the latest note, the secretariat said it then turned to a FCTC leadership group for guidance after receiving a number of nominations from countries that ignored the suggestion.

JERUSALEM Israeli troops shot dead a Palestinian who tried to stab a soldier near a settlement in the occupied West Bank on Thursday, the military said.
The soldier was attacked as he guarded a bus stop near Ofra, the force said. "Responding to threat, forces at the scene shot the assailant, resulting in his death," it added.
Over the past year, Palestinians, many acting alone and often using rudimentary weapons and cars, have killed at least 35 Israelis and two visiting Americans in similar attacks.
During the same period, at least 226 Palestinians have died in violent incidents in the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. Of those, Israel has identified 154 as assailants, while others were killed during clashes and protests.
Palestinians have accused Israeli police and soldiers of using excessive force in many such cases. Israel has opened investigations of several incidents.
Palestinian leaders say the assailants are acting out of desperation over the collapse in 2014 of peace talks and the expansion of Israeli settlements on occupied land that Palestinians seek for an independent state.

KUNDUZ, Afghanistan Dozens of Afghan civilians were killed on Thursday in air strikes called in when U.S. and local troops came under heavy fire during an operation in the north of the country in which two American service members also died.
Afghan officials said there was heavy fighting overnight in the village of Buz Kandahari, about 5 km (3 miles) from the center of the city of Kunduz, which Afghan Taliban fighters succeeded in entering as recently as last month.
Air strikes called in to protect U.S. and Afghan special forces conducting the operation caused heavy casualties.
"Unfortunately more than 30 civilians, including women and children, were killed during the fighting. This was a horrible incident," said Asadullah Amarkhil, the governor of Kunduz, adding that dozens had been wounded.
There were angry protests by civilians who brought the bodies of many of the dead into Kunduz, which saw major battles in early October.
"These bodies you see here are either children or women, they are not Taliban. All innocent children and women killed here - look at the bodies there," said Gull Ahmad, pointing to the bodies of relatives who were killed in the strikes.
In a statement, the U.S. military said the troops came under attack while working with Afghan partners to clear a Taliban militant position and disrupt the group's operations in the district around the city.
"As part of an Afghan operation, friendly forces received direct fire and air strikes were conducted to defend themselves," said Brigadier General Charles Cleveland, of the NATO-led Resolute Support mission.
"We take all allegations of civilian casualties very seriously."
In a statement, the Taliban said American forces were involved in a raid to capture three militant fighters when they came under heavy fire. An air strike hit the village where the fighting was taking place, killing many civilians.
U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said he was "deeply saddened" to learn that two U.S. service members had been killed and four injured in Afghanistan.
"Our service members were doing their part to help the Afghans secure their own country while protecting our homeland from those who would do us harm," he said in a statement.
According to Pentagon data, 1,832 other U.S. service members have been killed in action in Afghanistan since 2001, when U.S.-backed forces toppled the Taliban regime.

KUNDUZ SECURITY IN PERIL
The violence underlines the precarious security situation around Kunduz, which Taliban fighters came close to over-running last month, a year after briefly capturing it in their biggest success of the 15-year-long war.
While the city itself was secured, the insurgents control large surrounding areas.
The U.S. military gave no details of the identity of the two personnel killed, their units or the circumstances of their deaths.
Although U.S. combat operations against the Taliban largely ended in 2014, special forces units have repeatedly engaged in fighting while assisting Afghan troops.
Masoom Hashemi, deputy police chief in Kunduz province, said police were checking if any of the dead had Taliban links.
Thousands of U.S. soldiers remain in Afghanistan as part of the Resolute Support training and assistance mission and a separate counterterrorism mission.
The deaths come a month after another U.S. service member was killed on an operation against Islamic State fighters in the eastern province of Nangarhar.
Afghan forces, fighting largely on their own since the international combat mission ended, have suffered thousands of casualties, with more than 5,500 killed in the first eight months of 2016.

OMAHA, Neb. U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said on Thursday he was "deeply saddened" to learn that two U.S. service members had been killed and four injured overnight in Afghanistan.
Two American service members were killed on Thursday fighting the Taliban near the northern Afghan city of Kunduz, and more than 30 civilians were killed in air strikes called in to protect Afghan and U.S. troops, officials said.
"Our service members were doing their part to help the Afghans secure their own country while protecting our homeland from those who would do us harm," Carter said in a statement.
He said the Americans were part of a 'train, advise and assist' mission and that Afghan partners were also killed.
According to Pentagon data, 1,832 other U.S. service members have been killed in action in Afghanistan since 2001, when U.S.-led forces invaded the country and toppled the Taliban regime.

SITTWE, Myanmar Myanmar has agreed to allow aid to resume to the troubled north of Rakhine state and permit international observers to monitor whether help is reaching people displaced by violence, diplomats on a mission to the area told reporters on Thursday.
The diplomats, including the ambassadors of the United States and Britain and the top United Nations representative to the country, also called for an "independent and credible investigation" into attacks on security forces on Oct. 9 and the army operation launched in their aftermath.
The mission spent two days in northern Rakhine, closed to aid workers and observers for more than three weeks, and visited several villages, but were not taken to the scene of some of the most serious allegations of abuses by troops against civilians.
"There are four villages where people had apparently fled," U.S. Ambassador Scot Marciel told reporters.
"We talked to two groups of villagers who haven't had any food for a while. So the government has agreed to restoring humanitarian assistance to them, which is a good step."
Troops have flooded northern Rakhine since Oct. 9, when militants believed to be Rohingya Muslims attacked police border posts, killing nine officers. The government says five soldiers and at least 33 alleged insurgents have been killed in the military operation since then.
Residents and human rights advocates have accused security forces of summary executions, rapes and setting fire to homes.
The government of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi has denied any abuses have taken place. During a visit to Japan, Suu Kyi was quoted as saying that Myanmar was responding to the "delicate" conflict based on the rule of law.
Renata Lok-Dessallien, the U.N. Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, said the government assured the visiting diplomats that humanitarian support would be provided to up to 15,000 people believed to have been displaced since Oct. 9.
"We asked that international observation of the provision of the assistance be agreed to and the government agreed to this. The government also agreed to allow the programs that were halted on the 9th of October to resume," she said, adding that the details of that resumption of aid were being worked out.
The violence in recent weeks is the most serious to hit Rakhine since hundreds were killed in communal clashes in 2012.
Myanmar's 1.1 million Rohingya Muslims are denied citizenship, with many majority Buddhists regarding them as illegal immigrants from neighbouring Bangladesh, and face severe travel restrictions. They form the majority in northern Rakhine.

CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION
Marciel said the group was able to visit many villages it wanted to see, talk to the residents, and see how people lived. They had seen some burned-down homes, he said.
But the diplomats said the purpose of the mission - which was not accompanied by humanitarian staff, technical experts or independent journalists - was to stress the importance of access and transparency, not investigate reported abuses.
"There's no way we have that capability," said Marciel. "That's why we said how important it is for Myanmar to have an independent, credible investigation that can look into these things more deeply."
That contrasted with the portrayal of the mission by the state-owned Global New Light of Myanmar daily, which on Thursday ran a front-page story on the trip story headlined: "False accusations on violating human rights exposed to the world."
A separate opinion piece in the newspaper criticized local and foreign media reporting of the allegations of abuses by the military for "working hand-in-glove with the perpetrators" of attacks on security forces and publishing "fabricated news".
Some villagers on Wednesday crowded around the delegation and were able to independently talk to the members, handing over letters and electronic memory cards with testimonies, residents, monitors and delegation members told Reuters.
Following the meeting the crowd was detained temporarily by security forces, the residents said.
A local authority official said the diplomats had not been taken to U Shey Kya, a village where eight women have told Reuters they and dozens of others were raped or sexually assaulted by soldiers.
A resident of U Shey Kya contacted by telephone said the villagers had waited for the delegation on Wednesday, but it did not arrive. The account was corroborated by Chris Lewa from Arakan Project, a monitoring group with a network of Rohingya sources in the villages.
Underscoring the tense atmosphere of the trip, at least two Rohingya Muslims were briefly detained during one meeting on Wednesday in the village of Kyee Kan Pyin, which was attacked on Oct. 9, after authorities identified them as suspects, three witnesses said. The people were freed after U.S. ambassador Marciel intervened, the witnesses said.

ISTANBUL Hundreds of academics, students and union members staged a protest on Thursday against a purge of thousands of educational staff since Turkey's attempted military coup in July.
Turkey accuses U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen of orchestrating the July 15 putsch and has dismissed or suspended more than 110,000 civil servants, academics, judges, police and others over suspected links to the preacher.
The crowd chanted "We will win by resisting" in front of Istanbul University as dozens of riot police wearing gas masks looked on. Teachers who had lost their jobs wept and hugged students.
Among those suspended or removed in the purges since July are nearly 50,000 educational staff. Under the coup probe, some 37,000 people have been jailed pending trial.
"We are facing a period worse than the coup," said Tahsin Yesildere, head of a university teaching staff group.
"In our country, which is being turned into a one-man regime through the state of emergency (declared after the coup), all those in opposition resisting this trend have become targets," he told Reuters, referring to President Tayyip Erdogan.
The scale of the crackdown has alarmed Turkey's Western allies and foreign investors. Human rights groups and opposition parties say Erdogan, who traces his political roots to a banned Islamist party, is using the coup as a pretext to muzzle all dissent in the European Union-candidate nation.
The interior ministry said on Thursday it had suspended 1,218 gendarmerie personnel on suspicion of links to Gulen.
Officials say such measures are justified by the threat to democracy posed by Gulen's followers, once strong supporters of Erdogan. More than 240 people were killed in the coup, when rogue soldiers commandeered tanks and fighter jets.

"TYRANNY"
"We won't surrender," said a banner held by protesters, echoing a headline in the opposition daily Cumhuriyet, whose editor and senior staff were detained this week on accusations their coverage had helped precipitate the coup.
"Our dismissal comes as part of the tyranny that is being built," Levent Dolek, a research assistant in economics at Istanbul University until last week. "Our removal is just a detail considering the darkness Turkey is drifting into."
Can Dundar, Cumhuriyet's editor until July and now overseas to avoid an arrest warrant, said Erdogan's campaign was aimed at the secular values of the Turkish state.
"The real war here is with the Turkish Republic," Dundar told Reuters in a phone interview. "This is not a fight for a newspaper, it is the fight for a country."
Dundar was sentenced in May to six years in prison for revealing state secrets in the newspaper and left Turkey before the coup while free on appeal. He described the charges that the secularist daily backed the Gulen network as "comical".
"We spent our entire careers, especially the last 10 years, explaining how dangerous the Gulen movement was," he said.
In a sign of how confused the crackdown has become, a prosecutor appointed to handle the case against the paper, Murat Inam, is himself a defendant in a case against suspected Gulenists.
"It is unfortunate such an appointment was made. I wish it hadn't been done," Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said in parliament.
Turkish media showed video footage of what they said were the two putsch ringleaders arriving at Istanbul's main airport two days before the coup.
The reports said the men had been returning from one of several visits to the United States where they allegedly met Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999. He denies involvement.
Kemal Batmaz, who had headed a paper company, is in detention after being arrested in the coup's immediate aftermath, state-run Anadolu news agency said. Police are still searching for Adil Oksuz, a teacher.
Chief Ankara prosecutor Harun Kodalak told Anadolu that the two were key figures in the plot. He said court cases against coup suspects would be opened at the start of 2017.

LONDON If upheld, a court ruling demanding parliamentary approval to trigger the formal divorce procedure with the EU would require an act of parliament involving both the upper and lower houses, Britain's Brexit minister David Davis said on Thursday.
Passing an act of parliament would take more time than a simple resolution, requiring votes in both the House of Commons and House of Lords and potentially delaying the government's plans to invoke Article 50 by the end of March.
"The judges have laid out what we can't do and not exactly what we can do, but we're presuming it requires an act of parliament therefore both Commons and Lords," Davis told the BBC.

EDINBURGH Political leaders in Scotland and Northern Ireland - which both voted to stay in the EU - said Thursday's legal blow to the British government had exposed the confusion of Prime Minister Theresa May's approach to Brexit.
The High Court in London ruled that the government could not trigger the formal start of the two-year leaving process on its own but required prior parliamentary approval.
"(The ruling) is hugely significant and underlines the chaos and confusion at the heart of the UK government," Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon said.
"We should remember that (the UK government's) refusal to allow a vote in the House of Commons is not because of some matter of high constitutional principle, it is because they don't have a coherent position ..," she told the devolved Scottish parliament.
"They know that if they take their case to the (chamber) that will be exposed," she added.
In Belfast, Northern Ireland's deputy leader Martin McGuinness said the court verdict showed the approach by May's Conservative party to Brexit had been "shambolic."
He added: "I have no faith in the British parliament supporting the democratically expressed wishes of the people of the North to remain in Europe.
"Any decision taken about the future of the people of Ireland needs to be taken on this island."
May's spokeswoman said she still plans to trigger formal divorce talks with the EU by the end of March 2017 and does not believe the court decision will derail that.
The British government has said it will appeal to the Supreme Court against the ruling, and Sturgeon said she would consider whether to join the legal case when it goes to the UK's highest judicial body next month.
Sturgeon has vowed to do everything in her power to protect Scotland's EU interests, including keeping the option of a referendum on independence from the UK. Scots rejected independence by a 10 point margin in 2014.
She said of her party's members of the Westminster parliament: "(Scottish National Party lawmakers) will certainly not vote for anything that undermines the will or the interests of the Scottish people."

CAPE TOWN South Africa's justice minister presented a bill in parliament on Thursday to repeal the country's membership of the International Criminal Court (ICC) - which the government has said clashes with diplomatic immunity laws.
Pretoria last year announced its intention to leave after the ICC criticized it for disregarding an order to arrest Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir during a visit to South Africa. Bashir faces charges of orchestrating genocide and war crimes - charges that he dismisses.
"At the end of this proceedings we will be tabling the notice of withdrawal that South Africa lodged with the secretary general of the United Nations," Justice Minister Michael Masutha told legislators during a debate on the ICC.
Lawmakers from the official opposition Democratic Alliance party - which is planning to challenge the plan to leave the ICC in court - as well as the ultra-left Economic Freedom Fighters, opposed the bid to leave the Rome Statutes.
It was not clear when a final debate and vote would be held.
South Africa and Burundi have officially notified the United Nations of their intent to withdraw from the Rome Statute, the 1998 treaty establishing The Hague-based court. The withdrawals will take effect in October 2017.
The International Criminal Court, which opened in July 2002 and has 124 member states, is the first legal body with permanent international jurisdiction to prosecute genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
However, it has been criticized by African countries for having a bias against the continent, with most of its cases involving African leaders.
"For a long time we have witnessed the unevenness of international justice and the lack of universality of application in the manner in which countries are treated," said parliament's international relations committee in a statement welcoming South Africa's plan to withdraw.

SEOUL South Korean prosecutors have detained a former aide to President Park Geun-hye, a prosecution official said on Thursday, the second person to be held in an influence peddling scandal that has rocked the country's presidency.
Prosecutors have said they are looking into allegations that the former senior adviser, An Chong-bum, and Choi Soon-sil, a long-time friend of the president, forced South Korean conglomerates to donate funds to non-profit foundations using their connections with the president.
An, who was a senior presidential adviser in policy coordination until he stepped down late last month amid the growing political crisis, was detained late on Wednesday. He earlier told reporters outside prosecution offices that he would take responsibility for his actions but declined to elaborate.
An's lawyers were not immediately available for comment on Thursday. Prosecutors placed him under emergency detention, worried that he could destroy evidence, the prosecution official told Reuters.
Under South Korean law, prosecutors have 48 hours to seek an arrest warrant from a court.
On Wednesday, Park replaced her prime minister and finance minister, a reshuffle denounced by political opponents as a bid to divert attention from a crisis that has pushed her approval rating to an all-time low.

CALLS FOR PRESIDENTIAL INVESTIGATION
Members of opposition parties have called for prosecutors to investigate Park, which would be a first for a sitting South Korean president.
Her nominee to be prime minister, Kim Byong-joon, said on Thursday he believes the president could theoretically be subject to a probe.
"My position is an investigation is possible. But since (she) is the head of state, its process and method requires circumspection," Kim told a press conference.
Park is due to give an address on Friday morning, Yonhap News Agency said, adding that she may allow prosecutors to investigate herself. The presidential office was not immediately available for comment.
Park, 64, has also faced calls from political opponents and a growing number of South Koreans to step down, although the main opposition parties have not raised the idea of launching impeachment proceedings.
Despite numerous scandals over the years, no South Korean president has ever resigned or been successfully impeached. If Park resigned, an election would be held in 60 days, with the winner serving five years, making for a high-stakes race for which neither of the main parties has prepared.
Last weekend, Park accepted the resignations of eight of her top presidential aides, and on Thursday her office announced nominees for a new chief of staff and senior secretary for political affairs.
Prosecutors on Wednesday asked a court for a warrant to arrest Choi, Park's friend at the center of the scandal, and are seeking to charge her with abuse of power and attempted fraud, court and prosecution officials said. Choi was placed under temporary emergency detention late on Monday.

OLD FRIEND
The Seoul Central Court granted the warrant to arrest Choi late on Thursday, a court official said.
A formal arrest warrant allows her to be held for up to 20 days.
Choi, who has been a friend of Park's for decades but held no formal government role, is alleged to have used her proximity to the president to meddle in state affairs, and her lawyer has said he expects prosecutors to look into whether she inappropriately received classified documents.
Choi, 60, told South Korea's Segye Ilbo newspaper last week that she received drafts of Park's speeches after Park's election victory but denied she had access to other official material, influenced state affairs or benefited financially.
Choi's late father Choi Tae-min headed a now-defunct religious sect and was close to Park during and after the presidency of her father, Park Chung-hee, who was assassinated in 1979. A 2007 U.S. diplomatic cable described the senior Choi as the "Korean Rasputin", an allusion to his perceived influence over Park Geun-hye.
Choi Soon-sil has been portrayed in Korean media as having inherited her father's influence over Park.

CAPE TOWN South Africa's Jacob Zuma faces a no-confidence vote in parliament next week with his presidency mired in crisis, after investigators documented allegations of government corruption and thousands of people took to the streets to demand he resign.
The vote was called by the main opposition on Thursday following a report by the country's anti-corruption watchdog calling for a judicial inquiry into allegations of influence-peddling in the ANC government.
The report was finally released after the president withdrew a court bid to delay its publication in the face of mass public protests. Police used stun grenades and water cannon to disperse protesters in Pretoria carrying "Zuma must go" placards.
Mmusi Maimane, leader of the main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA), told a news briefing in Cape Town that the no-confidence debate and vote was scheduled for Nov. 10.
"This motion should not be viewed as a partisan motion - we do not see it as a DA motion," he said. "I know there are ANC MPs and cabinet ministers who have had enough. They have an opportunity to actually do something about their anger next week Thursday."
Zuma has survived his two previous no-confidence votes this year, largely backed by the support of his ANC (African National Congress) which controls about two-thirds of the assembly.
A senior party official told Reuters that ANC lawmakers were unlikely to break ranks and support the motion this time round.
But there have been widening fissures in the ruling party this year and growing discontent with the scandals that have plagued Zuma's presidency and played a role in the ANC suffering its worst electoral losses since the end of apartheid in municipal polls in August.
The ANC's chief whip in parliament, Jackson Mthembu, last month urged Zuma to lead senior party officials in quitting their posts, saying fraud charges leveled against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan were an abuse of power. The charges against Gordhan have since been dropped.
Since taking office in 2009, Zuma has survived several corruption scandals. But the watchdog's report, public protests and no-confidence vote pile more pressure on the 74-year-old to resign than at any other time - and if he stays in power, they could embolden his rivals within the ANC to challenge him.
The ANC said in a statement the report was a basis for the country to discuss the allegations and deal with its outcomes.

GUPTA FAMILY
The 355-page report by the constitutionally mandated watchdog - the Public Protector - is titled "State of Capture. It focused on allegations that the Gupta family of business tycoons influenced the appointment of ministers, and called for an investigation into whether Zuma, some of his cabinet members and some state companies acted improperly.
It stopped short of saying crimes had been committed, saying it lacked the resources to reach such conclusions. But it said a judge must investigate a scandal that has rattled markets in Africa's most industrialized economy and increased the risk of ratings downgrades.
Zuma denies granting undue influence to the brothers, who run a business empire from media to mining, or anyone else.
His office has said he is considering the report and reserves the right to challenge its findings in court.
The Guptas have denied seeking influence. They are studying the report and will defend themselves at the planned judicial inquiry, said their lawyer Gert van de Merwe.
"We will participate and we will participate comprehensively," he told eNCA television, adding that the family had not been given the chance to give evidence to the  Public Protector.
The report raised questions over coal deals between South Africa's sole power utility Eskom and a Gupta-owned firm.
The chief executive of Eskom, who was adversely mentioned in the report, said he was not given an opportunity by the watchdog to give his version of events.
"I was never given an opportunity to explain myself by the Public Protector," said an emotional CEO Brian Molefe, adding that the anti-graft watchdog had painted him "with a corruption brush" without any basis for the allegations against him.
Zuma met Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe in Harare on Thursday to sign bilateral agreements, and Africa's oldest leader told him with a chuckle: "I am happy you are in one piece in spite of what the papers are writing every day."

LONDON The High Court in London has ruled that the British government requires parliamentary approval to trigger the process of exiting the European Union.
The government, which had planned to start the EU divorce without going through parliament, said it would appeal against the ruling and the Supreme Court has set aside Dec. 5-8 to hear the case.
The stage is now set for a period of political uncertainty while ministers digest the ruling and how to respond to it.
For a weekly round-up of Brexit news: here

HOW DID THE GOVERNMENT REACT?
"The government is disappointed by the court's judgment," trade minister Liam Fox said on Thursday.
"The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by acts of parliament. The government is determined to respect the result of the referendum," he told parliament.

WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S OPTIONS?
Legal commentators say ministers now have two basic options: a simple vote in parliament on whether to trigger Article 50 or a new bill granting the right to leave the EU, which will have to be debated by lawmakers.

WHAT WOULD A NEW BILL ENTAIL?
David Pannick, the lawyer for the lead claimant, said parliament could approve such a bill, reject it or pass it with amendments on details such as the date of notification.
The best case for the government would be to avoid legislation and involve parliament through a so-called substantive motion -- a proposal put forward for debate and a vote. This would be a quicker process and could be done early next year.
Legislation would take longer as it involves various stages of debate and approval. It can also be held up by so-called "ping pong", whereby a bill goes back and forth between the lower and upper house of parliament, being amended and voted on.

HOW LONG WILL ALL THIS TAKE?
While it is possible legislation could be introduced and passed between the time of a final judgment late this year, and May's end-of-March 2017 deadline, it is likely to be tight and may result in the triggering being pushed back.
The 1972 European Communities bill, which set the terms of Britain's entry into the European club, involved a total of about 40 days of debate during its passage through parliament, according to the Institute for Government.

COULD PARLIAMENT BLOCK BREXIT?
Lawmakers in the lower house, the House of Commons, are thought to be unlikely to try to stop Brexit, and a Reuters survey suggested many who voted to "remain" would now vote to trigger Article 50 in a parliamentary vote.
However, a cross-party group of lawmakers, who support a "soft Brexit", whereby Britain stays in or remains close to the EU single market, have demanded a greater say for parliament in negotiations and say they might try to pass amendments that guarantee this.
The government may also face trouble in the House of Lords, where the ruling Conservatives do not have a majority. If the Lords were to block the bill the government could decide to overrule it using the Parliament Act, although it cannot re-table the bill until the next parliamentary session.
The new parliamentary session usually starts in May or June, so that would delay the Brexit process significantly.

KUNDUZ, Afghanistan More than 30 Afghan civilians, including women, children and elderly men, were killed and dozens wounded in an air strike in the northern province of Kunduz on Thursday, the provincial governor said.
The incident came as the U.S. military said it had conducted air strikes to protect friendly forces in an operation in Kunduz in which two Americans were killed.
"Unfortunately more than 30 civilians were killed, including women and children, during the fighting. This was a horrible incident," said Asadullah Amarkhil, the governor of Kunduz.

RABAT Grainy video images and the screams of a young fishmonger who was crushed to death in a garbage truck while trying to stop police destroying his stock have shocked Moroccans and brought thousands on to the streets to protest.
Five years after pro-democracy protests shook Morocco, this week's unrest is a reminder of pent-up frustrations the monarchy has managed to tame in the past with limited constitutional reforms, heavy welfare spending and tough security.
With a rallying cry against the Makhzen - a term used to describe the royal establishment - protesters have vowed to stage more demonstrations over Mouhcine Fikri's death in the northern city of Al-Hoceima, which was captured on video by witnesses and widely shared on social media.
They say he is a symbol of abuses against Moroccans and has revived the spirit of the February 20 movement which led the pro-democracy demonstrations that swept the country.
The political and social stability of Morocco is closely watched by Western governments as it is the only country in North Africa where jihadist groups have failed to gain a foothold, and is an important partner against Islamist militancy in terms of intelligence-sharing.
The public anger over the death has echoes of how Tunisia's own 2011 uprising began, when a young street vendor set himself on fire after police confiscated his fruit and vegetables. That uprising swept Tunisian President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali from power and triggered "Arab Spring" revolts across the region.
But there are fundamental differences with Morocco, where now and even five years ago calls for greater freedoms and reform have not been directed at toppling the king. Morocco has a deeply rooted monarchy - the Muslim world's longest-serving dynasty - while Tunisia's autocracy was based around Ben Ali, who came to power in 1987, and his family.
The political protests - rare in Morocco - will nevertheless test the nerves of a kingdom that presents itself as a model for economic stability and gradual change and a haven for foreign investment in a region torn by violence and political upheaval.
The monarchy wants to prevent the unrest escalating to the level of the 2011 protests, which lasted about a year and forced King Mohamed to cede some of his absolute powers to the elected government.
Protest organizers say the anger at Fikri's death, which shocked even staunch royalists, has rekindled the broader resentment at the establishment over joblessness and the big gap between rich and poor that drove those pro-democracy protests.
"People learned from February 20 movement to not let themselves to be fooled, so we will fight with all our strength for the dignity that Fikri died for," said Nasser Zafzafi, one of the organizers.
"We do not want scapegoats, but for the truly responsible to be punished, including high officials."
Most of the kingdom's 34 million people follow a moderate form of Islam and the country has long acted as a bridge for Westerners to Islamic and African culture. The king holds executive powers but also claims religious legitimacy as the commander of the faithful.

ROYAL CONDOLENCES
In an attempt to calm tensions, King Mohamed, currently touring Africa, ordered the interior minister to visit the victim's family and present royal condolences - a rare gesture of conciliation by the monarchy at a time of public protests.
The minister said Fikri did not deserve what happened to him and promised the investigation would punish those responsible.
Just like other governments in North Africa, Moroccan authorities often heavily police protests, nervous over popular unrest since 2011. Tunisia has seen rioting twice this year in its south over jobs and unions are warning over austerity plans.
But the security forces appear to have taken a more low-key, hands-off approach this week, waiting in side streets and staying away from where demonstrations rallied.
The authorities' more conciliatory approach this week, compared with in 2011 and during other more minor unrest since, could be partly down to the timing, according to political analysts.
The protests erupted at a sensitive moment as the kingdom prepares to host the 2016 United Nations climate change conference in November (COP22) and the prime minister begins to form a coalition government after elections last month.
"The Moroccan regime knows how to buy peace, especially now that the country is hosting COP22," said Mohammed Larbi Ben Othmane, a political scientist in Rabat university.
"They know how to adapt, you would even see members of the royal cabinet protesting with people if they need to do so, but they will never show weakness."

ULTIMATE AUTHORITY
Fikri's death last week prompted thousands of people to take to the streets for four days of protests in Al-Hoceima and major cities across the country including the capital Rabat and Marrakesh, among the biggest rallies Morocco has seen since 2011.
Moroccan authorities have charged 11 people, jailing eight of them, over the death of Fikri who was crushed in a trash truck while trying to stop police from destroying 500 kilograms of swordfish they say he purchased illegally.
The general prosecutor said on Tuesday those charged on involuntary manslaughter were two interior ministry officials, two local fisheries officials and a veterinary chief.
Activists accused police officers at the scene of ordering garbage men to "grind" Fikri but the police denied those accusations.
The involvement of local officials has fueled anger at the establishment and a frenzy of postings on social media blaming the Makhzen, reminding many of the February 20 movement calls to curb the monarchy's absolute powers.
When protests erupted in 2011, the king called a referendum which backed constitutional reforms that saw him cede some of his powers to the government and guarantee more rights, including freedom of speech. He remains the ultimate authority in Morocco, however.
Many February 20 activists were disappointed by the reforms, which they believe did not go far enough to bring democracy, and any suggestion of a resurgence of the movement is sensitive for a monarchic political system that critics describe as a medieval and archaic.
"What happened shows that all the people who thought the February 20 movement was dead were wrong," said Ben Othmane.  "Moroccans did not lose that capacity to resist."

BEIRUT Syrian rebel factions fought each other in besieged eastern Aleppo on Thursday, officials from two of the groups and a war monitor said, potentially undermining their efforts to fend off a major Russian-backed offensive.
Rebel groups have been plagued by disunity and infighting throughout the 5 1/2-year-old conflict, for ideological reasons, over tactical differences or in disputes over territory.
Fighters of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, Nour al-Din al-Zinki and Abu Amara attempted to seize positions and weapons from Fastaqim, one of its officials said. Fateh al-Sham is a jihadist group. Zinki and Fastaqim fight under the Free Syrian Army (FSA) banner.
An official from the Zinki group's politburo said the clashes had finished and there were efforts under way to resolve their dispute.
The clashes took place in the al-Ansari district and the neighboring Salah al-Din district, both of which are close to the front line with government-held areas, said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based war monitor.
The Observatory said the Islamist groups had succeeded in taking most positions and weapons from Fastaqim and detaining its fighters, but the group's official said its situation was not so bad.
Both Islamist and FSA groups are taking part in an offensive against government-held western Aleppo that began last week, which is partly aimed at breaking the siege on the rebel-held east but has made little progress after some initial gains.
Syria's army, backed by Shi'ite militias and Russia's air force, succeeded this summer in surrounding eastern districts of Aleppo, besieging the Sunni rebel groups who seek to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad as well as around 250,000 civilians.

CLASHES
The army and Russia on Wednesday told rebels they should leave eastern Aleppo by Friday evening, signaling their temporary halt on air strikes in the city, which began on Oct 18, would extend until then.
Damascus has told rebels and residents of eastern Aleppo that they can have safe passage out of the city, either to other areas held by the opposition or to resettle in government areas, but rebels have rejected that and few people have left.
Rebel groups detonated two large car bombs near pro-government forces on the western edge of Aleppo, the Observatory said, as they tried to revitalize an offensive which has made little progress since taking most of Dahiyet al-Assad suburb on Friday.
There were clashes between rebel groups and pro-government forces around Dahiyet al-Assad and near the 1070 Apartment Blocks, a district in southwest Aleppo that has been the scene of continued fighting since the summer.
Zinki, which has received foreign support funneled through Turkey, recently joined a joint operations room run by an alliance of Islamist factions known as Jaish al-Fateh. It includes factions like Fateh al-Sham, formerly loyal to al Qaeda and known as the Nusra Front.

BELGRADE Serbia and Russia began joint military exercises on Serbian territory on Thursday in a move likely to reinforce increased east-west tensions just as a five-day NATO drill in neighboring Montenegro draws to a close.
Serbia is trying to balance its traditionally warm ties with Russia, a fellow Slavic, Orthodox Christian nation, with its push for membership of the European Union and closer relations with NATO, though it has no plans to join the Atlantic alliance.
In the exercise dubbed "Slavic Brotherhood", which runs until Nov. 9, more than 700 troops from Serbia, Russia and Belarus will stage helicopter assaults, a mock attack on an insurgent base, evacuate casualties and practice artillery bombardment.
"It will all be very attractive," defense ministry spokesman Jovan Krivokapic told Tanjug news agency.
The launch of the exercise coincides with the end of the NATO drill in Montenegro, which focused on handling emergency situations such as floods or chemical attacks that included 680 unarmed personnel from seven NATO members and also 10 partner countries including Serbia.
The exercise also coincides with a deep chill in relations between Russia and the U.S.-led Atlantic alliance.
NATO has announced plans to send troops, tanks and planes to the Baltic states and Poland to counter what it perceives as a more assertive Russia following Moscow's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine and other actions.
Serbia, which relies on Russia for energy, is not actively seeking membership of NATO, which remains unpopular among Serbs because of its 1999 bombing campaign to drive Serbian forces out of Kosovo.
But as part of its integration with the West, Serbia last year signed the Individual Partnership Action Plan (IPAP), the highest level of cooperation between NATO and a country not aspiring to join.
Since 2006, Serbia has held 1,400 various activities with NATO, including 197 last year. In 2016, out of 26 training exercises only two are with Russia. Out of 21 multinational training drills in 2015, the Serbian military participated in only two with Russia.
Montenegro, which split from Serbia a decade ago, accepted an invitation last year to join NATO, angering Moscow.
Last month Montenegro's outgoing Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic accused Moscow of meddling in his country's parliamentary election campaign and of financing the opposition.

BISHKEK Kyrgyzstan Social Democratic party formed a new governing coalition, it said on Thursday, comprising lawmakers who a day earlier voted for constitutional reforms that opponents say are aimed at extending President Almazbek Atambayev's rule.
Atambayev, 60, is barred by the constitution from running for a second presidential term when his mandate ends next year,  and critics say the proposed reform would enable him to become a powerful prime minister instead.
Atambayev has denied having such plans.
A majority of lawmakers voted on Wednesday in favor of putting the proposal to strengthen the powers of the prime minister to a national referendum on Dec. 11.
They included members of the Kyrgyzstan and Bir Boll parties, which had now joined the coalition led by the Social Democrats, the leader of its parliamentary faction, Is Omurkulov, said.
Kyrgyzstan, an impoverished Muslim-majority former Soviet republic of 6 million people in Central Asia, has been volatile in recent years and was the scene of violent protests in 2005 and 2010 which toppled successive presidents. Atambayev took office in 2011.
The previous parliamentary coalition fell apart last month after some of its lawmakers opposed the constitutional reforms laid out by the Social Democrats, whose leader is Atambayev.

ANKARA Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday Germany had become a haven for terrorists and would be "judged by history", accusing it of failing to root out supporters of a U.S.-based cleric Ankara blames for July's failed military coup.
Erdogan said Germany had long harbored militants from the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has waged a three-decade insurgency for Kurdish autonomy, and far-leftists from the DHKP-C, which has carried out armed attacks in Turkey.
"We are concerned that Germany, which has protected the PKK and DHKP-C for years, has become the backyard of the Gulenist terror organization," Erdogan said, referring to the network of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen.
"We don't have any expectations from Germany but you will be judged in history for abetting terrorism ... Germany has become an important haven for terrorists," he told a ceremony at his palace in the capital Ankara.
Ankara blames Gulen for the coup attempt and has suspended or dismissed more than 110,000 of his suspected followers from the civil service, security forces and other institutions in a crackdown. Gulen has denied involvement in the putsch.
German Justice Minister Heiko Maas told reporters on Tuesday that he did not want to judge whether the Gulenist movement was political in nature or not. He also said Berlin would not extradite suspects if they faced political charges.
"That would certainly not happen," he said. For any extradition to take place, there had to be firm indications of "classic criminal activity".
Erdogan said he was concerned by Germany's reluctance, and warned that "the menace of terrorism would come back and strike it like a boomerang."


LONDON The British government still plans to trigger formal divorce talks with the European Union by the end of March and does not believe a court ruling demanding parliamentary approval will derail that, Prime Minister Theresa May's spokeswoman said.
England's High Court ruled on Thursday that the British government requires parliamentary approval to trigger Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty which starts up to two years of talks for Britain's departure from the bloc.
"Our plan remains to invoke Article 50 by the end of March, we believe the legal timetable should allow for that," the spokeswoman told reporters.
"We have no intention of letting this derail our timetable."
May has said she does not plan to trigger Article 50 before the end of this year to allow the government time to prepare its negotiating position and the spokeswoman said that work would continue despite the court ruling.
She said the process was clear before the June 23 vote that  the government would get on with implementing the result, using a historical power known as "royal prerogative" where ministers act on behalf of the monarch.
"There was a process agreed which was we would have an act of parliament, we would have a referendum, we would get on with it, with a clear expectation that it is a prerogative power and the government should do it," she said.
"There is the constitutional argument that it is lawful for the government to begin to give effect to the referendum result by the use of prerogative powers."

NONGSA, Indonesia Indonesian police on Thursday detained one of the crew of a packed speedboat that crashed off an Indonesian island a day earlier, while a search-and-rescue team scoured the waters for dozens of missing passengers.
The accident happened as the boat, carrying numerous illegal Indonesian workers, was heading for Indonesia's island of Batam, having departed from Malaysia's southern state of Johor.
The boat, with 98 workers and three crew on board, struck a reef in strong winds and big waves. Eighteen people were killed and 39 were pulled from the waters alive.
A 280-strong team resumed the evacuation effort early on Thursday, after the search for the other 44 was halted the previous evening, said Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the Indonesian national disaster mitigation agency.
Police were looking for the captain of the ship, who had fled, and the fate of the third crew member was unknown, said Airlangga, a police spokesman for the Riau Islands, which include Batam.
"The crew is being detained and we are chasing the captain as well, because they are responsible for this incident," Airlangga, who goes by one name, like many Indonesians, said by telephone.
"They violated the shipping law, and they were also transporting people illegally."
Most of the Indonesian workers were returning home after overstaying in Malaysia, Airlangga said, adding that the boat should not have not been so overloaded.
The disaster agency said the lack of a passenger manifest had made it tough to determine the exact number aboard.
Zainul Arifin, one of the survivors, who worked at an oil palm plantation in Malaysia, said he was seated at the back of the boat when it started flooding with seawater.
"I had to jump off and start swimming," Arifin told Reuters in the Batam port town of Nongsa. He had paid 1,200 ringgit ($287) for the boat ride, he added.
Many Indonesians work in Malaysian factories and plantations. Boat accidents are common in Indonesia, a sprawling archipelago of more than 17,000 islands.
($1=4.1850 ringgit)

MANILA Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte held talks with a wanted Muslim rebel leader at the presidential palace on Thursday, immediately after a court suspended a warrant for his arrest, in an effort to bolster his nationwide peace process.
Nur Misuari had been on the run since September 2013 and charged with leading a bloody rebellion, but Duterte welcomed  him and the two discussed how to put an end to nearly five decades of insurgency in the south.
Misuari founded the Moro National Liberation Front in 1969.
He was flown to the presidential palace from his base on Jolo island, home to the al Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf militants who run a lucrative kidnapping business and have beheaded foreign and Philippine captives.
Though the MNLF and Abu Sayyaf are not linked, Misuari has recently facilitated with negotiations to secure the release of several hostages.
"I cannot reject his invitation because I respect him," Misuari said of Duterte.
"He restored my liberty."
Duterte said he ordered a court to rescind the warrant so he and Misuari could discuss the stalled peace process and what to do about the Abu Sayyaf. Duterte has ordered Abu Sayyaf militants wiped out and has ruled out talks with them.
"We would be able to talk about the problem of our country, the revolution that you have led all these years and finally, understanding on a common ground with government," Duterte said.
The fight by Muslim militants for self-determination in the predominantly Roman Catholic country has seen more than 120,000 people killed and two million displaced.
The government has signed peace deals with two rival rebel factions but those have yet to be implemented because Congress failed under the previous administration to pass a law creating an autonomous Muslim region in the south.
The ceasefire between the government and the larger faction, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, has held since 2004. The Misuari-led wing tried in 2013 to seize the mainly Christian city of Zamboanga, triggering a deadly month-long siege.

LONDON Britain will be able to transition European Union trade agreements with third countries into UK agreements when it leaves the bloc, trade minister Liam Fox said on Thursday.
Britain is unable to sign trade deals with non-EU countries until after it has left the bloc but the government has said it can hold talks to prepare for future agreements.
"When it comes to the free trade agreements that the EU currently has, there are 36 covering more than 50 countries, it is entirely possible for us to be able to transition those into UK agreements and we are free to discuss those with countries while we are still members of the European Union," Fox told parliament.
"Our aim will be to have the minimum disruption of trade and no gap in market access for British companies."

LONDON The British government said on Thursday it will appeal a decision by the High Court that requires it to gain parliamentary approval before triggering the process of exiting the European Union.
"The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by Act of Parliament," a government spokesman said in a statement.
"The government is determined to respect the result of the referendum. We will appeal this judgment."

LONDON The British government is disappointed with a court decision that it requires parliamentary approval to trigger the process to leave the European Union and is determined to respect the result of June referendum, a spokesman said on Thursday.
"The government is disappointed by the court's judgment," he said in a statement.
"The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by Act of Parliament. And the government is determined to respect the result of the referendum. We will appeal this judgment."

DUBAI Dubai is testing out ways to detect and track drones after a series of high-profile incursions upset flights at one of the world's busiest airports, the airport operator's top official said on Thursday.
The increasing use of drones for commercial and leisure purposes globally has led to a rise in the number of near-misses with aircraft and infringements into no-fly zones, spurring calls for their use to be better regulated.
Operations at Dubai’s main airport, the world’s busiest for international passengers, were halted for an hour on Oct. 29, delaying 40 flights. It was the third time they had been temporarily stopped in four months because of drones.
“We have got to find a way of controlling it immediately,” Dubai Airports Chief Executive Paul Griffiths told Reuters . “We just cannot have any more closures caused by infringements of drones in controlled airspace.”
Dubai Airports, which also oversees Dubai's Al Maktoum International Airport, is conducting trials to create a tracking system to detect the real-time location of any nearby drone and the radio frequency on which it is being operated.
Countries around the world are grappling with how to control the booming drone industry. In the United States, rules for commercial drone usage were published on Aug. 29. Hobbyists must register crafts with the Federal Aviation Administration since December 2015.
In September, aviation associations representing airlines, pilots and airports across Europe called for mandatory registration and training of drone users following a number of near-misses.

PUNISHMENT
Dubai airport authorities have not said why operators fly drones at the airport but suggest they are mostly leisure users unaware of the law or of how close they are to flying aircraft.
Among the laws governing drone use in the UAE is a ban on flying vehicles in a "prohibited area", which includes the country's civil airports and military installations.
Those caught breaking the drone law risk up to three years imprisonment and a fine of up to 100,000 dirhams ($27,228).
Griffiths did not know if anyone has been charged over the three recent incidents, but he wanted perpetrators jailed.
“If people are caught infringing the airspace and threatening the safety of civil aviation, then clearly the penalties have to reflect that,” he said.
Emirates, the largest airline at Dubai International, said on Nov. 1 that unauthorized drone activity at the airport caused stoppages costing it "millions of dirhams on each occasion" and urged authorities to "take strong measures" against it.
"If people start to think you can't fly into Dubai because you may get diverted because they can't control the drone activity in the area, then that has a very serious reputational impact," Griffiths said.


BEIRUT Lebanese President Michel Aoun asked Sunni politician Saad al-Hariri on Thursday to form a new government, the presidency said in a statement, after he secured the support of a majority of MPs.
Hariri, who was formerly prime minister from 2009 to 2011, was expected to be named to the position again as part of a political deal that resulted in Aoun being elected head of state by parliament on Monday.

LONDON The British government is disappointed with a decision by England's High Court that it requires parliamentary approval to trigger the process of leaving the European Union, trade minister Liam Fox said on Thursday.
"The government is disappointed by the court's judgment. The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by acts of parliament. The government is determined to respect the result of the referendum," Fox told parliament.
"This judgment raises important and complex matter of law and it is right that we consider it carefully before deciding how to proceed."

TIFARITI, Western Sahara At a rocky outpost in Western Sahara, a new generation of soldiers who have never known war are mobilizing as tensions resurface in one of Africa's oldest disputes after a quarter century of uneasy peace.
Young Sahrawi troops man new desert posts for the Polisario Front, which for more than 40 years has sought independence for the vast desert region - first in a guerrilla war against Morocco and then politically since a ceasefire deal in 1991.
Now a standoff with Morocco, which controls the majority of Western Sahara, is renewing pressure for a diplomatic solution to ensure footsoldiers like Sidi Ahmed Brahim don't return to fighting as the last generation of commanders once did.
Aged 25, Brahim is as old as the ceasefire and his patience with United Nations efforts to end the decades-long impasse and prevent new desert clashes is wearing thin.
"All my life I've been waiting for the U.N. to find a solution," he said, sitting with a Kalashnikov rifle on his knee  where his unit has set up. "Now Morocco is trying to test us."
The standoff since August has brought Moroccan and Polisario forces within 200 meters (yards) of each other in a narrow strip of land near the Mauritanian border.
With U.N. peacekeepers separating the troops there, this may not escalate into open conflict. But diplomats are struggling to entrench peace in the territory on the western edge of the Sahel, a region which is already scarred by conflicts as governments from Mauritania and Mali to Niger and Chad fight affiliates of al Qaeda, often with western backing.
Rich in phosphate, Western Sahara has been contested since 1975 when Spanish colonial powers left. Morocco claimed the territory and fought the 16-year war with Polisario which established its self-declared Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Like his younger comrades, Brahim has never fought but his father was killed in a last battle with Morocco, not far from where he is stationed close to the village of Tifariti.
"The younger generation wants to find a solution, whatever the cost," said Brahim, whose unit has set up anti-aircraft cannons and parked aging Russian tanks in the desert.
As he spoke, a United Nations observation helicopter made passes overhead, not far from where spotlights from a small U.N. peacekeeping base illuminate the desert at night.

STANDOFF AT THE BERM
Since the standoff, Polisario has mobilized troops near the Moroccan-built berm, a wall of earth and rocks protected by landmines. Zigzagging for almost 3,000 km (1,800 miles) through Western Sahara, it divides areas controlled by Morocco from those controlled by Polisario.
The latest trouble erupted at the berm's far southern tip. U.N. troops had to step in after Moroccan gendarmerie crossed the wall into a buffer zone and Polisario responded. Their units remain facing each other at the village of Guerguerat.
The standoff comes at a sensitive time for attempts to restart the diplomatic effort.
For Polisario, Guerguerat is a Moroccan provocation and the worst violation of the ceasefire it signed on the understanding that a U.N.-organized referendum on self-determination for Western Sahara would be held.
That vote has never happened, with neither side agreeing on the terms, including who should vote and whether the question of independence or just autonomy should be on the ballot paper.
Morocco says its operation was merely to clear wreckage and surface a road to Mauritania to help counter smuggling. In Rabat, officials deny any ceasefire violation, seeing only a Polisario attempt to score political points.
For their part, Polisario commanders say they have mobilized troops purely defensively near the berm.
So far, U.N. proposals that both sides withdraw have got nowhere, and frustrations are growing.
"We respect the ceasefire. Decisions are with the political leadership," Polisario security secretary Brahim Mohamed Mahmoud told Reuters. "But many Sahrawis feel after this and years of waiting the only solution is go back to war."

NEW DIPLOMATIC PUSH
Since late July, U.N. negotiators have tried to achieve a new round of negotiations. Polisario says it is ready to talk  but the timing is complicated.
Polisario has a new leader, Brahim Ghali, following the death of its founder Mohammed Abdelaziz in July, while U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will be replaced on Jan. 1 by Antonio Guterres.
On top of this, Morocco says the U.N. envoy to Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, cannot visit Rabat until a new government has been formed following elections in September and it has hosted a U.N. climate change conference this month.
In the meantime, Rabat is lobbying to rejoin the African Union, hoping to win support from the bloc for a plan put forward by King Mohammed which offers the region autonomy under Moroccan sovereignty. Rabat abandoned the AU three decades ago in protest when it recognized Polisario.
Much of the impasse reflects splits in the U.N. Security Council, which has been unable to force either side to accept proposals. France backs Morocco while the United States is more cautious but calls the king's plan "credible and realistic". Outside the five permanent members, Venezuela and Angola are more supportive of Polisario.
Mohamed Hadad, Polisario's U.N. coordinator, said the ball was with the Council. "The Security Council must consider there is a challenge to peace, they must give attention to this conflict," he said.
Rabat dismisses Polisario's insistence that the referendum be held, saying this plan is no longer specifically mentioned in U.N. resolutions. "Why do we need to go back to 1991?" said one Moroccan official source.
Western diplomats and a U.N. source said Morocco's move in Guerguerat appeared to be a flexing of muscles to test the new Polisario leadership while it plays for time diplomatically.
"They wanted to demonstrate to us all that they can move beyond the berm, which is a dangerous initiative to take," the U.N. source said. "In the absence of a negotiations process, we will see more and more of this."
Morocco rejects those accusations. "Polisario reacted, and violated the ceasefire by bringing in military," the Moroccan source said.      
CEASEFIRE "BETRAYAL"
Many Sahrawis have been displaced during the long conflict and live in refugee camps across the border in southern Algeria; more are in southern provinces of Morocco.
For many in the Algerian camps, where younger Sahrawis have lived all their lives, the Moroccan move at Guerguerat and what they believe was a slow U.N. response has only deepened their impatience and increased pressure for a solution.
The U.N. says around 90,000 refugees - a figure contested by Rabat - live in tents and ramshackle buildings spread across the desert plain near the Algerian town of Tindouf, where residents rely on aid agencies for water, food and other supplies.
Emotions ran high at a recent debate at the Rabouni camp, where two older leaders faced young activists. "The U.N. did nothing. Sixteen years of war got results; 25 years of ceasefire gave us nothing," said Hama El Mehdi, one of the activists.
For commanders who fought against the Moroccans in some of the last battles near Tifariti, the appeal of a political deal has faded. "I sent a message to commanders so I can get a rifle and go back to Guerguerat," said Mohammed Maloud Ahmed Bakifa, who lost an eye in the war and lives in a traditional Sahrawi tent near Tifariti. "The ceasefire was a betrayal, we are still not fully free."

CAPE TOWN South Africa's parliament will debate a motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma on Nov. 10 following a report by the anti-graft watchdog over allegations of influence-peddling, opposition leader Mmusi Maimane said on Thursday.
The report stopped short of conclusive findings against Zuma but is likely to add to calls for him to resign.

BAGHDAD Heavy explosions shook eastern districts of the Islamic State-held city of Mosul early on Thursday, residents reported, shortly after the leader of the militant group tried to rally his followers against a U.S.-backed Iraqi military offensive.
One resident in the east of the city, where Iraqi troops breached Islamic State defenses earlier this week, said the militants fired dozens of rockets towards the Intisar, Quds and Samah neighborhoods, where soldiers are closing in.
"We heard Islamic State members shouting 'Allahu Akbar' (God is greatest) loudly, followed by rocket fire,"  told Reuters by telephone.
"We heard the sounds of rockets firing one after the other and saw them flashing through the air. The house was shaking and we were terrified, not knowing what was taking place."
In an audio tape released in the early hours of Thursday, Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi told his followers not to retreat in the face of "this raging battle and total war", promising victory against their enemies.
Islamic State fighters in Mosul took to the streets on Thursday with their faces uncovered, and appeared more enthusiastic than in recent days, the Mosul resident said.
"They were saying ;we will fight till death. The caliph gave us a moral boost to fight the infidels in his speech'," he said.
Another witness from the Hadbaa neighborhood of northern Mosul said that Islamic State vehicles were roaming the area and blasting out Baghdadi’s speech, urging fighters to hold their positions.
Residents had stayed in their houses, believing that the recapture of the city would be swift "but it seems that the matter is taking longer than they anticipated", he said.

SEOUL South Korea's new prime minister nominee said on Thursday it is his view that the country's president can be subject to prosecutors' ongoing investigation into an influence peddling scandal.
No sitting South Korean president has been subject to an investigation by prosecutors. Some opposition lawmakers have said the ongoing investigation should extend to President Park Geun-hye.
"My position is an investigation is possible. But since (she) is the head of state, its process and method requires circumspection," the nominee, Kim Byong-joon told a press conference, a day after Park named him to be the next prime minister, as part of a broader cabinet reshuffle.

PHNOM PENH Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen said on Thursday he wanted U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump to win next week's election  because Trump would reduce tension with Russia and be good for world peace.
Hun Sen is a self-styled strongman whose has ruled for three decades. He has at times reacted angrily to U.S. concerns about the state of human rights and corruption in Cambodia.
Most recently, the United States, European Union and United Nations have expressed concern about rising tension between Hun Sen's government and the opposition ahead of a general election in 2018.
"I really want Trump to win," Hun Sen said in a speech to thousands of police officers at police academy ceremony.
"If Trump wins, the world will change and may be in a good situation because Trump is a businessman so he doesn't want war ...  there can be friendship between Trump and Putin," he said, referring to Russia's President Vladimir Putin.
Putin has praised Trump as "very talented", while the Republican candidate has said the Kremlin boss is a better leader than U.S. President Barack Obama.
Trump's Democratic rival Hillary Clinton has accused Trump of being too cozy with Putin and questioned his business interests in Russia.
Hun Sen, who has met Clinton on several occasions including twice when she visited Cambodia as Secretary of State, criticized the Democrat candidate saying she had advised Obama to launch attacks in Syria.
He said the relationship between the United States and Russia may worsen if Hillary won next Tuesday.
The then Soviet Union supported Cambodia for a decade after the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge were driven from power by Vietnamese forces in early 1979.
The two countries have recently improved their relationship as Russia has taken steps to re-build ties in Southeast Asia.

BANGKOK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Land conflicts in Myanmar have escalated in recent years, with military and armed groups driving people from their land, and new laws failing to protect farmers, a rights watchdog said on Thursday.
Land disputes are a longstanding problem in Myanmar, but researchers from New York-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) documented rising discontent over displacement for agriculture, mining and infrastructure projects.
Land confiscation and reprisals against protesters are particularly acute in resource-rich Kayin state, which borders wealthier Thailand and is seen as attractive for investment in tourism, mining and agriculture, HRW said in a report.
"Military and armed groups use intimidation to force people off their land. Government laws and policies are failing to protect farmers, even where land seizures go through proper channels," Caroline Stover, author of the report, "The Farmer Becomes the Criminal", said by telephone from Yangon.
"Under the Land Acquisition Act, the government can take land for public purposes, but the government has failed to do proper notice and consultation, and provide proper compensation as required by law," she said.
For decades, Kayin state, also known as Karen state, has been the site of an armed conflict between ethnic armed groups and Myanmar's military, causing huge displacement and forcing hundreds of thousands to seek refuge in Thailand and beyond.
A peace process in the state and other ethnic areas has opened up access to areas once beyond the reach of Myanmar's armed forces and military-linked businessmen, HRW's report said.
It said peace - combined with the opening of the country to investors - has boosted land value and left farmers vulnerable to powerful interests "gaining land through questionable means".
As in many parts of the world, the people worst impacted by such projects lack land titles or the knowledge to defend themselves against businessmen and state officials.

VILLAGER JAILED, HOUSES BURNED
Over eight months last year, HRW researchers interviewed 72 farmers and laborers in Kayin state and Thailand.
In Hlaingbwe township in May 2015, border guard forces held a man for four days, after they claimed rights to land which the man's family had been working for generations, HRW said.
"They didn't charge me ... They just said it's because of the land," the man was quoted as saying in the report.
In New Ahtet Kawyin village in June 2015, when residents refused to remove their huts from land the government had laid claim to, "police cut down all of the houses with chainsaws and they burned the bamboo houses", the report said.
In response to a letter from HRW, the Kayin state government said it had barred protests against land seizure because "there is an attempt to protest against this work by a dishonest person/group who uses simple, local citizens and this can affect the rule of law and stability so it cannot be allowed".
Stover of HRW said a key problem is that villagers have been unable to secure documents required under new laws, in some cases because officials have refused to assist them.
"Some have documents (such as receipts showing they have paid tax on the land they use), but don't have the documents required under current law to protect hem against investors who want to buy up the land," she said.
"Farmers can request local government officials to come to measure their land and provide land documents, and officials have refused to do it. At the same time, we heard land certificates are being provided to businessmen, on land on which farmers were living and farming."
To address the problems for farmers and villagers, HRW recommended that the government recognize community land tenure and provide formal documents to farmers and villagers recording existing land use.
It called for the government to end arbitrary arrest and detention of land activists for peaceful protest, and to set up a multi-agency task force to investigate alleged abuses by border guard forces connected to land confiscation.


BANGKOK Thailand's military government has rolled out a series of rescue packages in a bid to help rice farmers, most of whom hail from the political heartlands of the government it toppled, amid tumbling prices of the grain.
Farmers in Thailand, the world's second-largest rice exporter, have traditionally been politically powerful and many helped elect former prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra in 2011.
Her administration was removed in a 2014 military coup.
The military government has been anxious to head off potential confrontation with farmers but said in its first year in power that it also wanted to wean them off expensive populist schemes such as a rice scheme introduced by Yingluck which bought rice from farmers at above-market rates.
But in recent weeks the military government has announced measures worth at least 59.28 billion baht ($1.70 billion) aimed at curbing market supply and stabilizing rice prices.
The measures come as the ruling junta is trying to ensure a smooth transition following the death of much-loved King Bhumibol Adulyadej and to maintain stability ahead of a 2017 general election.
"There's a possibility for tension, which could be used to incite political gatherings," said Kan Yuenyong, executive director of Siam Intelligence Unit think-tank.
"The government fears the situation would get out of control, so they have to intervene," he said.

FACEBOOK RICE
Global rice prices have plunged over the past months as the world's largest rice producers anticipate an influx of new stocks towards the end of the year.
Some Thai rice farmers have taken matters into their own hands and are turning to social media network Facebook to sell their grain, shunning rice millers, the industry's traditional middlemen, whose prices they say are simply too low.
Nim Inthasorn, 33, who hails from the northeastern province of Kalasin, said she has received orders for over 50 tonnes of rice since she started a Facebook page in October.
"I would hold the rice until prices improve, but that isn't practical so this is what I can do now," she said.
Her family's jasmine rice fetches around 7 baht ($0.20) per kilogram from rice millers, but on Facebook she can sell it for  23 baht ($0.66) to 34 baht (0.97) per kilogram, she added.
But the trend is unlikely to take over traditional methods of selling rice, said Pisanu Sangyoo, an analyst at the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
"Most farmers still have to do business with rice millers and exporters," he said.
Government spokesman Sansern Kaewkamnerd said this week the government supports farmers selling their grain online.

BANGKOK Insurgents in mostly-Muslim areas of southern Thailand killed three people in a spate of bomb and gun attacks overnight targeting military personnel and commercial property, the military said on Thursday.
The insurgent attacks were the first since the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej last month, and defied a request by the military junta to desist while the nation mourns a much-loved monarch who had reigned for seven decades.
Three people were killed, including two security guards and a soldier, according to Pramote Prom-in, a spokesman for the military's Internal Security Operations Command.
The latest attacks took place in Narathiwat and Pattani province, two of three Muslim-majority provinces in predominantly Buddhist Thailand where a separatist insurgency has been raging since 2004, and in neighboring Songkhla province.
"It was the work of insurgents who want to create unrest and destroy trust in the government," Pramote told Reuters.
No group has so far claimed responsibility.
The overnight attacks were the biggest since a series of bomb blasts across Thailand's south in August which killed four people and injured dozens, including foreigners.
Talks aimed at bringing peace to the troubled south between the military government and an umbrella insurgent group in September failed to reach any breakthrough.
Over 6,500 people have been killed in Thailand's southernmost provinces of Yala, Pattani, and Narathiwat over the past 12 years as part of the insurgency.
"This attack shows that the insurgency situation in the south is isolated from what goes on in the rest of Thailand," Srisompop Jitpiromsri, director of Deep South Watch, a group which monitors the conflict, told Reuters.
"Any request by the junta for a halt in the violence is unlikely to have any effect."

TOKYO A U.S. naval base in western Japan was briefly locked down on Thursday after reports of gunshots, but operations were soon back to normal with no evidence of an active shooter and no casualties, the navy said in an official tweet.
Gunshots had been reported from a building on the base at Sasebo, 980 km (614 miles) west of Tokyo, on Thursday morning, and the base was put on lockdown as a precaution as the building was checked by security, said Darin Wilson, Deputy Public Affairs Officer for U.S. Naval Forces, Japan.
The tweet said that all was clear at Sasebo and the base had returned to normal activities.
U.S. troops have been stationed in Japan since its World War Two defeat. Occasional crime by U.S. personnel or civilian base workers infuriates Japanese people and often fuels calls for the bases to go.

FORT LEONARD WOOD, Mo. The United States is continuing to talk with ally Turkey on the role it will play in the operation to seize the city of Raqqa, Islamic State's main stronghold in Syria, U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said on Wednesday.
Carter's comments, made during a news conference, come days after Turkey said it wants the Raqqa operation to start after Mosul and Euphrates Shield operations have been completed.
"We'll continue to talk with Turkey about its role in the eventual seizure of Raqqa, but we're proceeding now with the operation according to our plan," Carter said.
Carter said last week that Washington expected the Raqqa operation to overlap with the battle to retake Mosul from Islamic State.
"We intend to go there soon with the force that is capable of doing that and enveloping the city of Raqqa... the final seizure of Raqqa, we continue to talk to Turkey about that and a possible role for Turkey in that further down the road," Carter said.
Kurdish YPG militia fighters will be included as a part of the force to isolate the Islamic State-held Syrian city, the top U.S. military commander in Iraq has said.
Arab forces are expected to be the ones to take the city itself, U.S. officials have previously said.
The United States regards the YPG as an ally in its fight against Islamic State, but Turkey regards it as a terrorist organization because of its links with Kurdish militants fighting a three-decade insurgency in Turkey.
Turkey has said that the Raqqa operation should be carried out by local forces and the Kurdish YPG militia should not be included.
Iraqi forces battled Islamic State fighters on the eastern edge of Mosul on Tuesday as the two-week campaign to recapture the jihadists' last main bastion in Iraq entered a new phase of urban warfare.


KABUL Eight Afghans detained in Guantanamo Bay have been imprisoned for years on the basis of tenuous evidence, "fantastical allegations" and hearsay, a report issued on Thursday said.
The report by the Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN), an independent, non-profit research group, examined the cases of eight of the longest-serving Afghan detainees, all either still in Guantanamo Bay or recently moved to the United Arab Emirates.
It said the U.S. military had been unable to substantiate accusations against any of them.
Their cases underlined the danger that arbitrary detention could lead to "gross miscarriages of justice", a major factor in driving some Afghans toward insurgency, the report, entitled "Kafka in Cuba", said.
"Viewing the U.S. detention regime through the lens of the Afghan experience in Guantánamo raises broader questions about the effectiveness of U.S. intelligence and justice," it said.
The eight detainees, including a former plastic flower seller, named Bostan Karim, a "chokidar" or doorman named Abdul Zahir and a grocer named Obaidullah, were held over a variety of accusations ranging from being an al Qaeda and Taliban financier to being a member of al Qaeda bomb making cell.
One man, Muhammad Rahim, classified as a "high value detainee" was accused of being a personal translator and aide to Osama bin Laden, although the precise allegations against him remain secret.
However the report said none of the men was captured on the battlefield, with six handed over by Pakistani or Afghan forces and two detained after tipoffs from unknown sources.
It said the military and court documents outlining the evidence against them were "rife with hearsay, secret evidence, bad translations, gross errors of fact and testimony obtained under duress and torture".
As well as making "multiple, basic" errors of geography, the U.S. military mixed up groups that had long ago laid down their weapons or never fought with jihadists, it said.
Military boards had failed to clear obvious factual mistakes from detainee files, while courts had "utterly failed to hold the executive to account".
President Barack Obama, who had pledged to close the prison before he leaves office in January, is scaling the facility down by transferring detainees not considered a threat to foreign countries.
However he has been unable to close it in the face of opposition from Congress.
Supporters of keeping the facility open say it has held some of the most dangerous militants and is a valuable tool in fighting international terrorism. Critics say it contravenes U.S. values and feeds propaganda for militant groups.

LONDON British Prime Minister Theresa May will learn on Thursday whether she must seek parliamentary approval before triggering the formal process of leaving the European Union, a step some investors hope will lessen the chances of an economically disruptive "hard Brexit".
London's High Court will hand down its judgment on whether May and her ministers have the authority to invoke Article 50 of the EU Lisbon Treaty, the mechanism by which a country can leave the bloc, without the explicit backing of parliament.
May says she is determined to honor voters' decision in a referendum last June to leave the EU, and has the authority to do so.
But if the legal challenge succeeds, members of parliament (MPs) might have to vote on whether and when Article 50 should be triggered, which could lead to delays or even, in theory, block Brexit altogether.
May has said she will invoke Article 50 by the end of March, kicking off two years of divorce negotiations. In the wake of that announcement, sterling, which had already weakened dramatically since June, shed about 5 percent against the dollar to plumb its lowest levels in over three decades.
If the legal challenge is successful, May might not be able to meet her own March deadline. Some investors also believe the more lawmakers are involved, the less chance there will be of a "hard Brexit", where Britain prioritizes curbing immigration over remaining in the EU single market.
During a three-day hearing last month, the attorney general, the government's top lawyer, accused the challengers of trying to invalidate the result of the referendum, which backed Brexit by 52 percent to 48.
However, the challengers argued that only parliament, as Britain's sovereign body, could make a decision that would strip citizens of statutory rights.
Lord Chief Justice John Thomas, England's top judge, and two other senior judges will give their judgment at 1000 GMT. The losing side is expected to appeal to the Supreme Court, Britain's highest judicial body, which would probably hear the case in December.
Around three-quarters of the 650 members of the lower house had backed remaining in the EU before the referendum. However, a Reuters survey last month suggested many of those were likely to endorse Brexit now.
If the High Court rules against the government, May might therefore choose to bring in legislation promptly rather than appeal and risk a delay to her timetable.

SITTWE, Myanmar A group of parliamentarians from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on Wednesday urged Myanmar to probe reports of human rights abuses in troubled Rakhine state, as top diplomats based in the country visited the area.
The U.S. State Department said the U.S. ambassador visited several villages in the northern part of the state as part of an international delegation and stressed the need for a thorough investigation into allegations of abuses and for aid workers to be allowed back into the area.
Troops have poured into northern Rakhine since militants believed to be Rohingya Muslims launched coordinated attacks on border posts on Oct. 9, killing nine police. The government says five soldiers and at least 33 alleged attackers have been killed in the military operation.
The territory has been cut off to aid workers and observers for more than three weeks. Residents and human rights advocates have said abuses by government forces have included summary executions, rape and setting fire to homes.
The government of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi has denied any abuses have been committed.
The Rohingya, most of whom live in apartheid-like conditions, are seen by many Myanmar Buddhists as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Some 125,000 remain displaced and face severe travel restrictions in squalid camps since fighting erupted in Rakhine between Buddhists and Muslims in 2012.
ASEAN Parliamentarians for Human Rights (APHR) urged the Myanmar government to conduct a "thorough and impartial investigation into reports of abuses by security forces" against civilians in Rakhine.
It also called on the military to allow aid workers and journalists access to provide humanitarian help and to document developments.
"The reports coming out of Myanmar's Rakhine State are alarming and demand a credible investigation ... All authorities must take urgent action to prevent further violations and fulfill their responsibility to protect the rights of all civilians," said APHR Chairperson Charles Santiago, a member of the Malaysian parliament.
"We remain deeply concerned, however, that as a result of the lack of government oversight of security forces, effective systems are not in place to protect civilians or support their chance of seeing justice served."
In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman John Kirby said the U.S. ambassador to Myanmar, Scot Marciel, visited several northern villages where the Oct. 9 attacks took place with a delegation that included the U.N. resident coordinator and other chiefs of mission.
"The visit was an initial step in what we hope will be a continued assessment of the situation in the area by the government and by the international community," Kirby said.
"The ambassador took the opportunity to stress to government officials accompanying the delegation that a thorough investigation into allegations of abuse, protection of all residents, restoration of full humanitarian access are necessary," he told a regular news briefing.
The military operation has sharpened the tension between Suu Kyi's six-month-old civilian administration and the army, which ruled the country for decades and retains key powers, including control of ministries responsible for security.
The delegation that visited Rakhine state included ambassadors from China, Britain and the European Union as well as the United States.
The tour was led by Nyi Pu, the Suu Kyi-appointed chief minister of Rakhine State.
In a sign that the mission was carefully managed by the authorities, state media was invited to film the visit but no international reporters were allowed to join.
The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) urged access for aid agencies to 10,000-15,000 people thought to have been displaced by the latest violence.
"Essential, life-saving humanitarian activities have been suspended for more than three weeks now, and they need to be resumed as soon as possible," said UNOCHA official Pierre Peron.

NEW DELHI The U.S. embassy in New Delhi issued a security message to American citizens in India on Tuesday to be vigilant following reports that Islamic State may be planning to attack targets there.
"Recent Indian media reports indicate ISIL's desire to attack targets in India," the advisory said, warning of an increased threat to places frequented by Westerners such as religious sites, markets and festival venues.
ISIL is an acronym for the jihadist organization, which has seized territory in Iraq and Syria.
"All U.S. citizens are reminded to maintain a high level of vigilance and take appropriate steps to increase their security awareness," the advisory said.
Officials from the National Investigation Agency, India's counter-terrorism unit, has been quoted as saying that an Indian man arrested last month in Tamil Nadu and charged with terrorism offences had been an active member of Islamic State in Iraq.

EAST OF MOSUL, Iraq Iraqi forces battled Islamic State fighters on the eastern edge of Mosul on Tuesday as the two-week campaign to recapture the jihadists' last main bastion in Iraq entered a new phase of urban warfare.
Artillery and air strikes pounded the city, still home to 1.5 million people, and residents of the eastern neighborhood of al-Quds said the ultra-hardline Sunni militants had resorted to street fighting to try to hold the army back.
Soldiers of the elite Counter Terrorism Service (CST) also entered the state television station in Mosul on Tuesday, the first capture of an important building in the Islamic State-held city since the start of the offensive about two weeks ago, the force commander, Lieutenant-General Talib Shaghati, said.
"This is a good sign for the people of Mosul because the battle to liberate Mosul has effectively begun," Shaghati said.
Iraqi troops, security forces, Shi'ite militias and Kurdish peshmerga have been advancing on several fronts toward Mosul, backed by U.S.-led troops and air forces. Special forces units sweeping in from the east have made fastest progress.
"We are currently fighting battles on the eastern outskirts of Mosul," CTS Lieutenant-General Abdul Wahab al-Saidi said. "The pressure is on all sides of the city to facilitate entry to the city center."
He said CTS forces had cleared Islamic State fighters from most of the eastern district of Kokjali, close to al-Quds, on Tuesday, "so now we are inside the district of Mosul".
Blackish grey smoke hung in the air east of the Islamists' stronghold and the regular sound of outgoing artillery fire could be heard, said a Reuters reporter near Bazwaia, about five km (three miles) east of Mosul.
Inside the city, residents speaking to Reuters by telephone said they heard the sounds of heavy clashes since dawn.
One inhabitant of al-Quds district at the city's eastern entrance said bullets were fizzing past and hitting the walls of houses, describing the explosions as "deafening and frightening". Many people in the area have stayed indoors for the last two days.
"We can see Daesh (Islamic State) fighters firing towards the Iraqi forces and moving in cars between the alleys of the neighborhood. It's street fighting."
One witness said he saw nine cars, laden with families and furniture, heading from the eastern half of the to the west bank of the Tigris River to escape the encroaching frontline.
Away from the eastern fringe of the city, however, traffic was relatively normal, markets were open, and Islamic State fighters were patrolling as usual.

"CHOP THE SNAKE'S HEAD"
Mosul is many times bigger than any other city held by Islamic State in Iraq or Syria. Its recapture would mark the collapse of the Iraqi wing of the caliphate which it declared in parts of both countries two years ago, although the hardline Sunni militants have recovered from other setbacks in Iraq.
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said on Monday that Iraqi forces were trying to close off all escape routes for the several thousand Islamic State fighters inside Mosul.
"God willing, we will chop off the snake's head," Abadi, wearing military fatigues, told state television. "They have no escape, they either die or surrender."
Commanders have warned that the fight for Mosul, which could be the toughest of the decade-long turmoil since the U.S. invasion which overthrew Saddam Hussein in 2003, is likely to last for months.
The United Nations has said the Mosul offensive could also trigger a humanitarian crisis and a possible refugee exodus if the civilians inside in Mosul seek to escape, with up to 1 million people fleeing in a worst-case scenario.
The International Organisation for Migration said that nearly 18,000 people have been displaced since the start of the campaign on Oct. 17, excluding thousands of villagers who were forced back into Mosul by retreating jihadists who used them as human shields.
U.N. human rights spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani said Islamic State fighters tried to force another 25,000 civilians from a town south of Mosul back toward the city on Monday. Most of the trucks carrying them turned back under pressure from patrolling aircraft, she said.
Not all those heading back were doing so under duress from the militants, according to Mosul residents who said people were streaming in from the south as military operations edged closer to the city.
Most came without any belongings, though some brought sheep and a few camels into the city, they said.
In Bazwaia, CTS guards told Reuters that a suicide car bomber tried to attack their position early on Tuesday, but they halted it with machinegun fire. Rubble and parts of the attacker's body could still be seen by a nearby berm.
As well as the suicide attacks, the Islamic State militants have slowed the army's advance with snipers, mortar fire, roadside bombs and booby traps inside abandoned buildings.
In Bazwaia, recaptured by Iraqi troops a day earlier, about a dozen civilians could be seen coming out of the village, waving white flags and bringing with them their livestock -- about 200 sheep and a few cows and donkeys.
Saidi, the CTS officer, said 500 civilians had already been moved from Bazwaia to a camp for displaced people further away from the frontline.
"We expect to encounter more civilians as we push through the city," he said.

BARTELLA, Iraq The Iraqi Counter Terrorism Service entered on Tuesday the state television station in Mosul, capturing the first important building in the Islamic State-held city since the start of the offensive about two weeks ago, a commander of the elite unit said.

GENEVA Islamic State militants killed 40 former members of the Iraqi Security Forces near Mosul on Saturday and threw their bodies in the Tigris river, U.N. human rights spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani said on Tuesday, citing reports from the field.
IS also tried to transport about 25,000 civilians from Hammam al-Alil, a town south of Mosul, on dozens of trucks and minibuses during the hours of darkness early on Monday, probably for use as human shields in defense of IS positions, she said.
Most of the trucks, which were heading toward the Tal Afar district, turned back under pressure from patrolling aircraft, but some buses did reach Abu Saif, 15 km (10 miles) north of Hammam al-Alil, she said.
"We have grave concerns for these and tens of thousands of other civilians who have reportedly been forcibly relocated by ISIL (Islamic State) in the past two weeks," she said.
IS fighters were taking people closer and closer to Mosul city and putting them close to their offices and to installations that could constitute military targets, Shamdasani said.
"That seems to support the assertion that they are planning to use these people as human shields, as well as ensuring that the area is heavily populated with civilians to frustrate a military operation against them," she said.
"They are also killing some people that they are abducting, especially people who formerly belonged to the Iraqi Security Forces."
The 40 former Iraqi soldiers killed on Saturday were among civilians who had been abducted earlier from the al-Shura sub-district of Mosul and from villages around Hammam al-Alil.
There may be many more, Shamdasani said, adding that the U.N.'s reports were "raw information" from reliable sources and were by no means comprehensive.
Although there would be a "temptation for revenge" against captured IS fighters, the U.N. had not documented any such abuses, and it welcomed the Iraqi government's pledge to put protection of civilians at the heart of their strategy, Shamdasani said.
She also said there were no reports of coalition air strikes killing civilians, including those people being held as human shields.

KIEV Ukrainian authorities will investigate politicians and officials who declare cash assets of more than $100,000 and will impose prison sentences of up to 15 years on any found guilty of wrongdoing, General Prosecutor Yuriy Lutsenko said on Tuesday.
His announcement came after Ukraine completed a landmark anti-corruption reform on Sunday obliging tens of thousands of officials, all the way up to the president and prime minister, to declare their wealth in an online database.
Although a Western-backed government came to power in 2014 promising reform, corruption remains entrenched. Declarations of millions of dollars in cash, expensive Swiss watches and luxury cars have shocked many in a country where the average monthly salary is little over $200.
"The online declaration is not the end of the process, but only the beginning," Lutsenko told a briefing, adding more than half of the lawmakers in parliament had declared possession of more than $100,000 in cash.
The reform, which is backed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund, faced what some lawmakers and activists said were repeated attempts to sabotage it or water it down.
"The important stage of verification of submitted e-declarations now starts," Thomas Frellesen, the charge d'affaires of the EU delegation to Ukraine, told Reuters by email. The investigating body "must be able to operate fully independent, free of any political interference," he said.
Lutsenko said the authorities will also look into the tax affairs of those who reported receiving gifts of over $10,000 or said they had over $100,000 in the bank.
The prosecutor's own family may not be immune from investigation. His wife, herself a lawmaker, declared owning $280,000 and 50,000 euros ($55,120) in cash, as well as a smaller amount in the local hryvnia currency.
The declaration system - whose launch was a key condition for further loans from Western backers - is designed to move away from a culture that tacitly allowed bureaucrats to amass wealth through cronyism and graft.
Khatia Dekanoidze, the chief of Ukraine's under-resourced police force, said: "Frankly, if the police had 5 percent of  what was declared, we'd be able to get new uniforms for everyone ... and have all our officers working in state-of-the-art buildings."
On Monday, European Council President Donald Tusk said he had spoken to President Petro Poroshenko to congratulate him on efforts to fight corruption.
The anti-corruption agency NAZK has said it will verify the declarations, but with over 100,000 forms submitted, it is unclear how thorough the process can be.

MOSCOW A Russian opposition activist who became the first person to be jailed under a new law for repeatedly staging peaceful anti-Kremlin protests says he is being tortured in prison and fears for his life.
A Moscow court sentenced Ildar Dadin, 34, to three years in prison in December for holding a series of one-man protests, although his term was reduced to two and a half years on appeal.
Russian rights activists regard Dadin, an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin and his policies, as a political prisoner. The authorities say Dadin broke a law, introduced after big anti-Kremlin protests, that criminalizes anyone who violates protest rules more than twice in 180 days.
In a letter to his wife from prison in northwest Russia, published on Tuesday by the online news portal Meduza, Dadin said he was being subjected to beatings in which around 10 prison guards would kick him at the same time.
He said he had also had been hung up like a piece of meat with his hands handcuffed behind his back, that he had been stripped and threatened with rape, and that the prison governor had warned him he would be murdered if he complained.
"Regular beatings, bullying, humiliation, insults, intolerable detention conditions – it's happening to the other prisoners as well," the letter said.
Dadin said if he was subjected similar treatment again, "it's unlikely that I'll last more than a week".
Anastasia Zotova, his wife, said on social media she had felt something was wrong when prison authorities had not allowed her to speak to her husband on the phone or to visit.
Valery Maksimenko, the deputy head of the prison service, told the Interfax news agency that a medical investigation had not found any injuries on Dadin, and that Dadin had confirmed as much in a video interview.
He said an investigation into the allegations was under way. A spokeswoman for the prison service did not respond to a request to comment on whether Dadin had retracted his claims.
Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for Putin, told reporters when asked about the matter that Putin would be informed about Dadin's letter.
"This is a case which merits the closest attention of the relevant authorities, in this case the prison service," said Peskov.
Dadin told his wife he feared he might be murdered to shut him up.
"In the event of my sudden death, you may be told that I committed suicide, had an accident, was shot while trying to escape, or (died) fighting with another prisoner," he wrote.
"But this would be a lie."

ABUJA Leaders from the Nigeria's Niger Delta called on Tuesday on President Muhammadu Buhari to pull the army out from the oil hub, order oil firms to move headquarters there and spend more on development to end militancy in the region.
Buhari met leaders from the southern swampland for the first time since militants started a wave of attacks on oil pipelines in January to push for a greater share of oil revenues.
At the meeting in the presidential villa in Abuja, Niger Delta leaders, joined by representatives of militant groups, gave Buhari a list of 16 demands to pacify the impoverished region where many say they do not benefit from the oil wealth.
The list "includes the withdrawal of the military in oil producing communities in the region", King Alfred Diete-Spiff, a Niger Delta leader leading the region's delegation, said after the meeting, adding: "We don't want the communities militarized."
Buhari sent in army reinforcements in May to hunt down militants, a move that stoked anger as residents complained of rape, looting and arrests of youths unrelated to the militants, charges denied by the military.
The delegation leader also said oil firms should move headquarters to the region so unemployed youths - who often work for militants - could get more jobs. Foreign firms active in Nigeria are often based in the commercial capital Lagos.
The Niger Delta leaders also asked for more funds for the development and an amnesty plan for ex fighters which Buhari had planned to cut, which has upset the militant scene.

OIL OUTPUT
Oil Minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu said the meeting had been successful. "The president has noted the requests and will study them," he told reporters.
He said oil output had recovered to 2.1 million barrels a day, roughly back to levels before the attacks began in January.
The attacks, which put four key export streams under force majeure, had led production to plunge to just 1.37 million barrels per day in May, the lowest level since July 1988, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA), from 2.2 million barrels in January 2016.
Nigeria has held months of talks to end the violence but no lasting ceasefire has been agreed in the oil hub, where many complain about poverty, even though the region provides much of Nigeria's oil exports.
Nigeria agreed on a ceasefire with major militant groups in 2009 to end an earlier insurgency. But previously unknown groups have since taken up arms after authorities tried to arrest a former militant leader on corruption charges.
Under a 2009 amnesty, fighters who lay down their arms receive training and employment. However, of the $300 million annual funding set aside for this, much ends up in the pockets of "generals" or officials, analysts say - an endemic problem in a country famous for graft.
Any ceasefire would be difficult to enforce as the militants are splintered into small groups of angry, young unemployed men even their leaders struggle to control.
A major group, the Niger Delta Avengers, had initially declared a ceasefire in August but then claimed another attack last month.
The group has threatened to step up attacks on oil facilities in the Niger Delta if the president pursues a military campaign, its spokesman Mudoch Agbinibo told Reuters in written responses to questions.

CAIRO Italian and Egyptian prosecutors discussed Egypt's investigation into the killing of an Italian student on Tuesday and called the talks "positive", after months of rising tension as Rome complained about a lack of cooperation from Cairo.
Giulio Regeni, who was doing postgraduate research into Egyptian trade unions, was last seen by his friends on Jan. 25. His body, showing signs of torture, was found in a roadside ditch on the outskirts of Cairo on Feb. 3.
Amid accusations from rights groups that Egyptian security services appeared responsible for the 28-year-old Regeni's death, Italy complained that Egyptian authorities were not cooperating to find the perpetrators. In April, Rome withdrew its ambassador to Cairo for consultations.
Italian deputy chief prosecutor Sergio Colaiocco met Egyptian Public Prosecutor Nabil Sadek in Cairo on Tuesday and invited him to visit Rome in December for further talks and to meet Regeni's parents, a statement by the two sides said.
"During the meeting amid a positive atmosphere, the two parties discussed the latest developments in the investigation and renewed their commitment to direct cooperation in uncovering the mystery of the incident and achieving justice for the victim," the statement said.
In protest at the perceived sluggishness of the investigation, the Italian Senate voted in June to halt supplies to Egypt of spare parts for F16 warplanes.
Italy was Egypt's fourth largest trade partner in terms of imports and exports in 2015, according to Egypt's statistics agency CAPMAS. The Senate vote was Italy's first commercial step against Cairo over the Regeni case.
Human rights groups have said that torture marks, including cigarette burns, cuts and contusions, indicated Regeni died at the hands of the security forces, an allegation Cairo denies.
But security and intelligence sources told Reuters in April that Regeni had been arrested outside a Cairo metro station on Jan. 25 and was taken to a Homeland Security compound.
Regeni's case is an "open wound" for Italy, Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said last week.
Sadek told his Italian counterpart in September that the head of Egypt's independent union of street vendors reported Regeni to police a few weeks before he disappeared.
Police then carried out checks on Regeni's activity for three days but found nothing of interest and stopped the checks, he said.
Regeni had been researching independent labor unions in Egypt for his doctorate studies at Cambridge University, and had been in contact with the leaders of the street vendors' union.
Italy has significant economic interests in Egypt, including the giant offshore Zohr gas field, which is being developed by the Italian state energy producer Eni.
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has also sought to be Egypt's main political partner in Europe, offering to be "a bridge" to the region for Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.

MADRID Spain's incoming Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he would name his new cabinet on Thursday after he won a parliamentary vote on Saturday, returning him to power and ending 10 months of political deadlock.
"I will announce the government on Thursday afternoon and they will be sworn in on Friday. I have already spoken with His Majesty the King (Felipe)," he told reporters after the vote.


DOUE-LA-FONTAINE, France French President Francois Hollande said on Saturday he had spoken with British Prime Minister Theresa May to convey the message that Britain should take its share of responsibility for minors from the "Jungle" migrant camp of Calais.
There was tension this week between the two countries over how to take care of young migrants after bulldozers flattened the camp that had been home to over 6,000 refugees and migrants hoping to cross the Channel to Britain.
Hollande said 5,000 people had been evacuated from Calais and that there were 1,500 unaccompanied minors left, who would be transferred swiftly to other reception centers.
"I talked yesterday with the British prime minister, as (French Interior Minister) Bernard Cazeneuve did with his British counterpart, so that the British can go to those centres with those minors and take their share (of responsibility) to welcome them in Britain," Hollande said.
Late on Thursday, British Home Secretary Amber Rudd was quoted by a spokesman as telling France it must guarantee the protection of these youngsters.
The issue is sensitive in both countries and the head of France's Ofpra refugee agency, Pascal Brice, responded bluntly on Friday: "We've done Britain's work in tending to the adults."
"The least they can do is take care of the isolated minors who are now at the CAP (temporary lodgings) and who have an interest in going to Britain," he told Reuters.
European Union rules say Britain must take in unaccompanied children who have family ties there. An amendment to those rules adopted in Britain this year states that such minors whose best interests are served by doing so should also be admitted.
Britain has so far accepted 274 children from among this group, France said on Thursday.
Hollande, speaking in western France after visiting one of the 450 reception centres set up to welcome Calais migrants, said a sprawling camp in northeastern Paris would also be dismantled and those eligible for asylum sent to those same shelters.
There are some 2,000-2,500 sleeping in tents in the northeast Paris camps, up from around 1,500 before Calais started being dismantled, a local official told Reuters on Friday, adding that some came from the "Jungle" and others from other areas.
"We will carry out the same operation as in Calais," Hollande said. "We will evacuate the Paris camps."
Hollande said most of the newcomers in the Paris camps did not come from Calais but from a new wave of arrivals via Libya.

MAIDUGURI, Nigeria Two suicide bombers killed at least eight people on Saturday in the northeastern Nigerian city of Maiduguri, the heart of a seven-year-old insurgency by Islamist Boko Haram militants, the military said.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility but the attacks bore the hallmarks of Boko Haram which has been trying to set up an Islamic state in the northeast, killing thousands and displacing more than 2 million people.
In one attack a woman who blew herself up at 0600 GMT (2 a.m. ET) in front of the Bakasi camp for displaced persons on Maiduguri's outskirts, killing five men and wounding 11 women, the army said in a statement.
At about the same time another female suicide bomber blew herself up while trying to enter a fuel depot of state oil firm NNPC, killing three persons, the army said.
Residents saw bodies being carried into an ambulance by government emergency services.
Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium at the start of 2015, but Nigeria's army, aided by troops from neighboring countries, has recaptured most of the territory.
The group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast, as well as in neighboring Niger and Cameroon.

DUSHANBE Tajikistan on Saturday diverted the flow of a major river to start building the world's tallest dam and the main element of the Rogun hydroelectric power plant, a $3.9 billion project which Dushanbe hopes will secure its energy independence.
The Central Asian nation which borders Afghanistan lacks hydrocarbon resources and relies heavily on hydroelectric power, although its neighbors downstream complain that this disrupts their traditional agricultural works.
President Imomali Rakhmon's office said in a statement he attended Saturday's ceremony at which explosions were used to block the main riverbed of the Vakhsh river, paving way for the construction of a 335-metre dam for which Italy's Salini Impregilo this year won a $3.9 billion contract.
Uzbekistan, another former Soviet republic and Central Asia's most populous nation of 30 million, has repeatedly urged Tajikistan not to build Rogun. In order to power the hydro plants, Tajikistan needs to accumulate water during the summer -- when it is needed downstream for irrigation -- and then release it in the winter, causing spring floods downstream.
Highlighting the poor state of Tajikistan's existing energy infrastructure, mostly built in the Soviet era, a malfunction at the country's biggest power plant, Nurek, left most of the country in complete darkness for several hours late on Friday.
The outage also affected production at Tajikistan Aluminium Company, one of the country's main hard currency earners, the firm said on Saturday without disclosing any details.
In a speech broadcast by state television on Saturday, Rakhmon said upgrades at the Nurek power plant would require $700 million. The new power plant, Rogun, will start providing electric power in late 2018, Rakhmon said.

ROME Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi told thousands of party supporters gathered in central Rome on Saturday to step up their campaign in favor of a referendum on constitutional reform that could decide his political future.
With five weeks to go to the Dec. 4. referendum on his plan to reduce the role of the Senate and cut the powers of regional governments, Renzi is campaigning furiously to try to turn around opinion polls that suggest he may lose the vote.
"This is a choice between the future and the past," the 41-year-old premier told flag-waving members of his center-left Democratic Party (PD) at a rally in Piazza del Popolo.
"It is a chance for Italy to look at the future with a little bit more hope."
Renzi is appearing daily in television and radio interviews to try to rally support for the referendum, but with all the opposition parties, as well as a minority of his own PD lined up against the reform, he faces a tough task.
All but one of 26 opinion polls published this month has put the "no" camp ahead, with a lead ranging from one to nine percentage points.
Renzi asked his followers to set aside one evening a week to organize "a dinner, or a pizza, or a coffee" with wavering voters to win them over to the reform, warning that if it is rejected Italy will be "taken back a generation."
He said the PD would be stepping up its campaign in coming weeks, with more canvassing on the streets and telephone text messages to voters.
Renzi also appealed to PD traditionalists, including two of its former leaders, who have refused to back the reform and criticize him for moving the party to the right and for what they say is an authoritarian leadership style.
"It's time to end our internal divisions and quarrels," he told the crowd.
Earlier this year, Renzi repeatedly vowed to resign and quit politics if he lost the referendum, but over the last two months he has declined to confirm the pledge, saying debate over his own future deflected attention from the merits of the reform.
At the same time, he has sharply raised the pitch of his rhetoric in criticizing the European Union's fiscal rules which many Italians blame for their chronically stagnant economy.
He returned to the theme in Saturday's rally, saying he would continue to battle against "useless European rules."
He also ramped up the tone of a spat with Hungary's right-wing leader Viktor Orban, saying Orban should "wash his mouth out before speaking about Italy."
This week Renzi said Hungary should have its EU funding cut if it refuses to take in a fair quota of migrants, to which Orban replied that Renzi was "nervous" over Italy's public finance problems and the migrants arriving on its shores.

DIYARBAKIR A Turkish court banned the co-leader of Turkey's pro-Kurdish opposition from traveling abroad as part of a court case in which she has been accused of being a member of an armed terrorist group, Hurriyet daily reported on Saturday.
Figen Yuksekdag, co-chair of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), is facing jail time up to 15 years over comments she made last year in the southeastern border town of Suruc. The prosecutor of the case requested the ban.
HDP described the court's decision to bar Yuksekdag from foreign travel as 'political and arbitrary', saying in a statement that it will make a formal appeal for its overturn.
The move comes days after the co-mayors of Diyarbakir, the largest city in the southeast, were detained as part of a security crackdown. Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast has been rocked by violence following the collapse of a ceasefire between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) last year.
President Tayyip Erdogan has accused the HDP of being a political extension of the outlawed PKK and repeatedly called for the prosecution of its members. He has also said the removal of elected officials and civil servants accused of links to the PKK was a vital part of the battle against it.
Several other HDP lawmakers including co-chair Selahattin Demirtas are also being prosecuted, largely over terrorism charges, after the parliament earlier this year lifted the immunity of HDP deputies, along with the immunity of MPs from other parties.
Meanwhile three Turkish soldiers were killed and five others were wounded by mortar fire from PKK militants near the southeastern town of Cukurca, security sources said.
Soldiers who were on an operation in Cukurca in Hakkari province bordering Iraq and Iraq returned the fire, sources said. Operations were under way to hunt down the militants.
The autonomy-seeking PKK took up arms in 1984, and more than 40,000 people have died in the conflict. It is considered a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.


ISTANBUL A deputy leader and lawmaker from Turkey's main opposition party was shot in the leg in the western province of Aydin by an unidentified assailant, broadcaster Haberturk reported on Saturday.
Bulent Tezcan from Republican Peoples' Party (CHP) was attacked at a restaurant in his electoral constituency, Haberturk said. He was taken to a hospital in the province but his injuries were not life threatening.
The motives of the gunman was not immediately clear but witnesses at the scene told Turkish broadcasters that after firing at Tezcan, the assailant chanted and fled. Police have identified him and are working to capture him.
The attack comes two months after the convoy of Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the leader of CHP, came under an attack by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militant group. Kilicdaroglu had escaped unharmed while three soldiers were injured in an exchange of fire.

BRUSSELS A much-debated trade deal between the European Union and the United States is not dead and negotiations will continue with the new U.S. administration after November's elections, EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom said on Saturday.
A similar agreement between the EU and Canada can finally be signed on Sunday after resistance from Belgian local governments led to a last-minute blockade of the agreement which was seven years in the making.
Paul Magnette, the premier of Belgium's region of Wallonia who led opposition to the Canadian trade deal, told his parliament on Friday that with the concessions he managed to agree, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) was "dead and buried".
Malmstrom said she disagreed with that assessment and work would continue with the new U.S. administration.
"TTIP is not dead, but TTIP is not yet an agreement," she told reporters after a ceremony in Brussels, in which Belgium signed its addendum to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) with Canada.
"The U.S. election will naturally bring the negotiations to a pause and we will resume after with the new administration," she added.
Both TTIP and CETA have sparked demonstrations by unions and protest groups who say the agreements will lead to a 'race to the bottom' in labor, environmental and public health standards and allow big business to challenge democratically elected governments across Europe.
Washington and Brussels were committed to sealing TTIP before President Barack Obama leaves office in January, but both sides now recognize that this will not happen.
Some European politicians have called for TTIP talks to be halted and relaunched after the U.S. presidential elections with greater transparency, clearer goals and a different name.
Malmstrom said lessons from the Canadian negotiations would aid in making a deal with the United States.
"Some of the experiences, some of the procedures that we have experienced with CETA, will also be reflected in our work on TTIP," she said.

BEIJING China's imports of North Korean coal run counter to global sanctions, a senior U.S. official said on Saturday, adding that a U.S. missile system deployed in South Korea should "motivate" Beijing to pressure Pyongyang over its nuclear program.
North Korea's exports of coal to China provide a lifeline for the country and are also seen by the United States as a crucial area where Beijing has leverage over its neighbor, which has carried out a series of missile and nuclear tests in defiance of international sanctions.
China announced in April that it would ban North Korean coal imports to comply with U.N. sanctions, though it made exemptions for deliveries intended for "livelihood purposes".
Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken told journalists that China had reversed the burden of proof put forward under U.N. Security Council resolution 2270 adopted in March in response to a North Korean nuclear test.
"The plain language of 2270 makes it very clear that the export of coal, or the importation of coal if you are China, is prohibited unless you can demonstrate that the transaction in question goes to the livelihood of the North Korean people," Blinken said in Beijing after visits to Japan and South Korea.
"The Chinese have reversed the presumption and their approach has been that the trade in coal is allowed unless you can demonstrate that it is going to the weapons program. But that's not what 2270 says," he said.
Coal is particularly important to the economic health of North Korea because it is one of its only sources of hard currency. China imported $1 billion worth of North Korean coal in 2015, according to Chinese customs data.
Beijing fears strengthening sanctions could lead to collapse in North Korea, sending a flood of refugees across the border into China, and it also believes the United States and South Korea share responsibility for growing tensions in the region.
North Korea's fourth nuclear test in January was followed by a satellite launch, a string of tests of various missiles, and its fifth and largest nuclear test in September.
China has repeatedly expressed anger at the United States and South Korea for their decision to deploy the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) system in the South to counter threats from North Korea. Beijing worries that the system's powerful radar will compromise China's security.
Blinken said THAAD "was the latest but not the last defensive step" that the U.S. would take if the North Korean nuclear threat persists, and that hopefully it would "motivate China to work with us to change the conduct of the North Korean regime".

KARACHI, Pakistan Gunmen on motorcycles killed at least four people at a religious gathering of Shi'ite Muslims in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, on Saturday, police said, in the latest attack claimed by the Sunni militant group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi's Al Alami faction.
The shooting took place in the North Nazimabad neighborhood of the sprawling metropolis of more than 18 million people, where sectarian, ethnic and political violence is common.
Lashkar-e-Jhangvi's Al Alami faction, which targets Shi'ites and Pakistan's security forces, killed more than 60 police cadets in the southwestern city of Quetta on Monday in an attack in conjunction with Islamic State.
But it said it carried out this attack on its own.
"Lashkar-e-Jhangvi Al Alami accepts responsibility for those killed in this attack, and we announce that there is no room for the enemies of the companions of the Prophet Muhammad in Pakistan," said Ali bin Sufyan, the group's spokesperson, in a statement.
Provincial police chief Allah Dino Khwaja told reporters men on two motorcycles fired on the gathering.
Four people were killed and three others wounded, Nasir Aftab, a senior police officer, said.
Violent crime has dropped significantly in Karachi since the launch of a paramilitary operation in the city three years ago, but targeted attacks still occur frequently.
Shi'ite Muslims make up about 20 percent of Pakistan's 190 million people, and sectarian attacks against them - including bombings and targeted attacks - have become increasingly common in recent years.
Since 2002, more than 2,500 Shi'ite Muslims have been killed in such attacks, according to data gathered by the South Asia Terrorism Portal. At least 23 people have been killed in such attacks this year, it said.

BAGHDAD A coalition of Iranian-backed Iraqi Shi'ite militia plans to cross the border into Syria to fight alongside President Bashar al-Assad after "clearing" Islamic State militants from Iraq, a militia spokesman said on Saturday.
Iraqi Shi'ite militiamen are already fighting on Assad's side in the country's civil war, and the coalition is currently participating in an Iraqi government offensive to recapture the northern city of Mosul from Islamic State. The announcement by the coalition, known as Hashid Shaabi, or Popular Mobilization, would formalize its involvement in Syria.
"After clearing all our land from these terrorist gangs, we are fully ready to go to any place that contains a threat to Iraqi national security," Ahmed al-Asadi, a spokesman for the Shi'ite coalition, told a news conference in Baghdad.


KUALA LUMPUR Malaysian police released the chairman of democracy group Bersih on bail on Saturday, after detaining her for more than two hours for questioning, just weeks before a big protest rally planned against Prime Minister Najib Razak.
The group said Maria Chin Abdullah was arrested in the Borneo state of Sabah for distributing flyers promoting the group's upcoming rally in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur on November 19. The Sabah police declined to comment.
The rally, called Bersih 5, is organized to call for the resignation of Najib to facilitate a probe into a scandal involving 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), a state fund set up by the prime minister.
More than 200,000 people turned out in Kuala Lumpur last August for a similar rally organized by Bersih, demanding the resignation of Najib.

ISLAMABAD Pakistani police have arrested 30 workers from the opposition Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party ahead of planned protests to shut down the capital on Wednesday, a PTI official said on Saturday, as the party canceled a rally in the capital.
On Friday, supporters of PTI leader Imran Khan, a former Pakistani cricket hero, clashed with police in Rawalpindi, 20 km (12 miles) from Islamabad, and Khan accused the government of placing him under virtual house arrest.
Police on Thursday arrested 38 PTI workers at a youth rally, hours after local authorities imposed a two-month ban on all public gatherings in Islamabad and Rawalpindi.
The police and local authorities did not respond to requests for comment.
Khan has vowed to 'lock down' Islamabad on Wednesday in a bid to force Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to resign over allegations of corruption linked to the Panama Papers leaks. Police say they will block any such attempt.
Chaudhry Rizwan, a senior PTI official for Islamabad, said 30 people were arrested overnight from outside Khan's home, where some supporters slept.
A Reuters reporter saw more than 100 police officers, some in riot gear, posted near Khan's residence.
"Today's rally has been canceled. For now, whatever will happen will be at Khan's Bani Gala residence," added Rizwan.
PTI's rally on Saturday was scheduled to act as a prelude for Wednesday's attempt to lock down Islamabad.
There were about 80 PTI supporters near Khan's road, vowing to protect their leader and demanding that Sharif stand down.
"I came here because I think of Pakistan, and things are very bad here. There is too much corruption here," said Dost Muhammad, 30, a tailor from Swat region who camped outside Khan's home overnight.
Khan's latest challenge to Sharif's government is based on leaked documents from the Panama-based Mossack Fonseca law firm that appear to show that his daughter and two sons owned offshore holding companies registered in the British Virgin Islands. Sharif's family denies wrongdoing.
Holding offshore companies is not illegal in Pakistan, but Khan has implied the money was gained by corruption. Khan admitted in May that he used an offshore company himself to legally avoid paying British tax on a London property sale.

BANGUI Clashes between militia groups in the Central African Republic have killed 25 people including six gendarmes caught in an ambush, the U.N. peacekeeping mission to the country, MINUSCA, said on Saturday.
MINUSCA condemned the violence around the central town of Bambari and appealed to the two militia groups behind the clashes to respond to an invitation by President Faustin-Archange Touadéra for talks.
"Six gendarmes and four civilians lost their lives on Friday morning in an ambush on the Bambari-Grimari road. The day before, clashes between elements of the anti-Balaka and ex-Seleka caused 15 deaths and a number of wounded," MINUSCA said.
There was no immediate comment from the government or the militia groups.
Central African Republic has been plagued by inter-religious and inter-communal violence since 2013 when the mainly Muslim Seleka rebels seized power, prompting reprisals from the anti-Balaka militia, which draws some of its fighters from the country's Christian population.
The level of violence has reduced since an election in February that brought President Faustin-Archange Touadéra to power and was touted as a step toward reconciliation but it remains frequent.

BENGHAZI, Libya The bodies of 10 men who appear to have been tortured and shot dead have been found in a suburb of Libya's eastern city of Benghazi, a security official said.
The bodies were found overnight between Thursday and Friday in Benghazi's Shabna district, said Milad al-Zwai, a spokesman for Benghazi's special forces.
For the past two years Benghazi has been the site of a military campaign led by eastern commander Khalifa Haftar against Islamists and other opponents.
After long struggling to make progress, Haftar's forces seized several key neighborhoods earlier this year, though they still have not brought the city under full control.
It was not clear who was responsible for the killings. Only five of the bodies found in Shabna had been identified, but Zwai did not give details.
The area is under the control of Haftar's forces.
In July, 14 bodies with gunshot wounds to the head were found in another Benghazi neighborhood, Laithi, which had been the scene of fierce fighting before Haftar's forces took control of it several months earlier.

(Story refiles to remove extraneous word, paragraph 1.)

BAGHDAD Iranian-backed Iraqi Shi'ite paramilitary groups said they started an offensive on Saturday against Islamic State positions west of Mosul, assisting in a campaign to take back the city.
The operation will target Tal Afar, an Islamic State-held area close to Turkey where a sizeable ethnic Turkmen population lives, which could cause concern in Ankara.
Earlier announcements by the militias, collectively known as Hashid Shaabi or Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF), on advancing toward Mosul have drawn warnings from human rights groups concerned about sectarian violence in the mainly Sunni province. Shi'ites make up a majority in Iraq but Sunnis are predominant in the north and the west.
The PMF said it had started moving early on Saturday toward Tal Afar from positions south of Mosul, Islamic State's last major city stronghold in Iraq.
"The wounded city of Tal Afar (is among) the cities to be liberated," said a statement on the PMF's website.
The PMF officially reports to the Shi'ite-led government of Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi who on Oct. 17 announced the start of an offensive targeting Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, with the backing of a U.S-led coalition.
The PMF was formed in 2014 to help push back Islamic State's sweeping advance through northern and western provinces.
Amnesty International says that in previous campaigns, the Shi'ite militias have committed "serious human rights violations, including war crimes" against civilians fleeing Islamic State-held territory.
The U.N in July said it had a list of more than 640 Sunni Muslim men and boys reportedly abducted by a Shi’ite militia in Falluja, a former militant stronghold west of Baghdad, and a list of about 50 others who were summarily executed or tortured to death.
The government and the PMF say a limited number of violations have occurred and that they were investigated but they deny that abuses were widespread and systematic.

CALAIS, France France demanded on Friday that Britain take in hundreds of minors from war-torn countries after the British interior minister suggested that Paris should do more for them following the closure of the "Jungle" migrant camp in the northern French port city of Calais.
Bulldozers are flattening the sprawl of ramshackle huts and tents which had been home to about 6,000 refugees and migrants from Asia, the Middle East and Africa hoping to cross the English Channel and start new lives in Britain.
Most have now been bussed to other centres across France pending examination of their cases. But the plight of hundreds of minors roaming the area, nearly 1,500 of whom have signed up for temporary lodging in container-boxes in Calais, has become a point of dispute.
British Home Secretary (Interior Minister) Amber Rudd told her French counterpart Bernard Cazeneuve on Friday that his government must guarantee the protection of youngsters left in limbo after the evacuation of the "Jungle".
"Any child either eligible or not in the secure area of the camp should be cared for and safeguarded by the French authorities. We understand that specialist facilities have been made available elsewhere in France to ensure this happens," Rudd's spokesman quoted her as saying.
Cazeneuve replied that Britain should "quickly execute its responsibilities to take in these minors, who hope to come to the United Kingdom. This is the best way to give them the protection they are due," he said.
The head of France's Ofpra refugee agency, Pascal Brice, put it more bluntly.
"We've done Britain's work in tending to the adults," he told Reuters. "The least they can do is take care of the isolated minors who are now at the CAP (temporary lodgings) and who have an interest in going to Britain."
French government officials in the region say that 1,451 minors are in the container-box lodgings. Britain has so far accepted 274 children from among this group, France says.
European Union rules say Britain must take in unaccompanied children who have family ties there. An amendment to those rules adopted in Britain this year states that such minors whose best interests are served by doing so should also be admitted.

DEBRIS
Aid groups say hundreds if not thousands more adults and minors may have fled into the hinterland around the "Jungle",  ready to return when the heavy police presence wanes.
Smoke and dust floated over the heart of the site on Friday as bulldozers cleared mounds of debris and rubbish, watched from afar by a group of youngsters who had slept outdoors in an area that once serve as a school for camp-dwellers. Charity workers gave them food on Friday.
Abdul Hadi, an Afghan youth who gave his age as 16, said he spent 10 months in the “Jungle” but failed to register with the French authorities for help when the evacuation on Monday.
"I hope I can get to the UK this week," he said.
Serge Szarzynski, head of social affairs in the Calais area, told Reuters a solution would be found for Hadi and the youths with him.

PARIS The number of migrants sleeping rough on the streets of Paris has risen by at least a third since the start of the week when the "Jungle" shanty town in Calais was evacuated, officials said.
Along the bustling boulevards and a canal in a northeastern corner of Paris, hundreds of tents have been pitched by migrants - mostly Africans who say they are from Sudan - with cardboard on the ground to try and insulate them from the cold.
While the presence of migrants there is not new, it has grown substantially this week, Colombe Brossel, Paris deputy mayor in charge of security issues, told Reuters.
"We have seen a big increase since the start of the week. Last night our teams counted 40 to 50 new tents there in two days," Brossel said, adding that there was now a total of 700 to 750.
This means there are some 2,000-2,500 sleeping in the area, up from around 1,500 a few days before, she said.
"It's not a huge explosion in numbers but there is a clear increase," she said. "Some of them come from Calais, others from other places."
After years as serving as an illegal base camp for migrants trying to get to Britain, the "Jungle" was finally bulldozed this week and the more than 6,000 residents of the ramshackle camp near the English channel were relocated to shelters around France.
France's asylum chief Pascal Brice said the arrivals in Paris did not mean there had been a wholesale movement from the Jungle to the capital.
"There might be some movements at the margins (toward Paris) but what is crucial is that those 6,000 people have been protected," he told Reuters.
Between the Stalingrad and Jaures Paris metro stations, migrants who spent the night camped out on the median strip of a major road, with traffic passing on either side, had scattered on Friday morning, many carrying their tents while police patrolled the center of the boulevard.
Migrants and officials said police checked ID papers and asylum requests and later let the migrants return to the central reservation of the avenue where they put their tents back up.
"There's a lot of new people here," said Mustafa, 21, from Darfur, as he waited on the side of the road.
Ali, also from Sudan, said: "I see more people than before. People came yesterday and before yesterday from Calais."
Authorities said the newcomers did not come only from Calais. Others did but had arrived before the dismantlement of the camp.
Ama, a 24-year-old Sudanese who is six months pregnant, said she had come to Paris from Calais, but that was months ago.
"I was in Calais before but I did not find the route (to Britain)," she said. "I couldn't stay over there being pregnant, it was too hard."
Deputy Mayor Brossel said it was up to the central government, and not city authorities, to act.
"These people must be sheltered," she said.
The city of Paris has plans to open two migrant centers but they would only have a total capacity of fewer than 1,000 beds.

BAGHDAD Iraqi Shi'ite militias backed by Iran said on Friday they would soon join the fight against Islamic State on a new front west of Mosul, a move which could block any retreat by the jihadists into Syria but might alarm Turkey and the United States.
The Shi'ite militias, with thousands of battle-hardened fighters trained by Iran, would bring important extra firepower to what is expected to be the biggest battle in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003.
But their arrival on the battlefield in one of the most diverse parts of Iraq also creates worry for Western countries backing the Iraqi government offensive, who fear that the Shi'ite fighters could alienate residents in mainly Sunni areas.
A spokesman for the paramilitary groups said the advance toward the Islamic State-held town of Tal Afar, about 55 km (35 miles) west of Mosul, would start within "a few days or hours".
If successful, the offensive would leave Islamic State fighters - and the 1.5 million civilians still living in Mosul -  encircled by an advancing coalition of forces which seeks to crush the hardline Sunni militants in their Iraq stronghold.
As many as 50,000 Iraqi soldiers, police and Kurdish peshmerga fighters, backed by U.S.-led air strikes and support on the ground, have advanced on Mosul for nearly two weeks from the south, north and east.
They have already recaptured scores of villages on the flat plains east of Mosul and along the Tigris river to the south of the city, Islamic State's last big bastion in Iraq.
Until now, it has not been clear whether the Shi'ite paramilitaries would join the fight, or whether the western approaches of the city would be left open so that civilians and militants could escape.
Rights groups have called on Baghdad to keep the Shi'ite militias away from the battlefield, accusing them of carrying out revenge killings and kidnappings in other areas freed from Islamic State. The militias and the Baghdad government say any such abuses were isolated incidents and not widespread.
The battle for Mosul itself, a city many times larger than any other ever held by Islamic State, is expected to be the biggest military operation in Iraq since U.S. troops invaded to topple former president Saddam Hussein nearly 14 years ago.
Adding to the challenges facing the advancing forces, retreating Islamic State fighters have forced women and children from outlying villages to march alongside them as human shields as they withdraw into the city, according to villagers who spoke to Reuters by telephone from Mosul.
Older boys and men of fighting age were taken off to an unknown fate, they said.
The United Nations said on Friday Islamic State had abducted 8,000 families from around Mosul to use as human shields, and had killed 232 people near the city on Wednesday who refused to comply with orders.
The group's "depraved, cowardly strategy is to attempt to use the presence of civilians to render certain points, areas or military forces immune from military operations, effectively using tens of thousands of women, men and children as human shields," U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein said.
A man who was among those taken to Mosul from a village south of the city described the exodus for those forced to retreat with the fighters as human shields.
"They put us in a trailer pulled by a tractor, and along the way we saw civilians shot dead with bullets in the head on both sides of the road; about ten, all of them men," said the man, speaking from one of the few parts of Mosul where mobile phone coverage still works. "We are in shock."

CUTTING LINES TO SYRIA
Ahmed al-Asadi, a spokesman for the Shi'ite forces known collectively as the Hashid Shaabi, or Popular Mobilisation, said the operation to cut off Mosul's western approaches was crucial to defeat Islamic State, also known as Daesh, ISIS or ISIL.
"This is the most important and dangerous line because it connects Mosul to Raqqa and is the only supply line for Daesh," he told Iraqi state television.
Mosul and Raqqa, Islamic State's main bastion in Syria, form the two symbolic capitals of a cross-border "caliphate" declared by the group's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi from the pulpit of a Mosul mosque in August 2014.
Iraqi and Western military sources say there has been debate about whether or not to close off the western route in and out of Mosul. Leaving it open would offer Islamic State fighters a chance to retreat, potentially sparing civilians inside the city who might otherwise be trapped in a bloody fight to the finish.
Some civilians fleeing Mosul have used the roads to the west to escape to Qamishli, in Kurdish-controlled northern Syria.
Just as the advancing army and Kurdish forces have had to battle to recapture even small villages on the road to Mosul, facing waves of roadside bombings, sniper fire and suicide car bombs, Asadi suggested the advance on Tal Afar may take time.
It will be launched from the Qayyara military base, about 90 km (55 miles) to the southeast.
"Tal Afar is the final destination ... it is the pyramid’s peak. But there are villages on the way that need to be liberated before reaching Tal Afar," Asadi said.
Several hours after Asadi's announcement, Islamic State said one of its militants drove a bomb-laden car into a group of Popular Mobilisation fighters, killing 20 of them. It said the suicide attack took place west of the town of Shirqat, where the Shi'ite forces have been gathering ahead of the offensive. Spokesmen for the Iraqi army and the Popular Mobilisation forces could not be immediately contacted for comment.
Islamic State fighters are enemies of all countries on earth, and many regional powers across the Middle East have claimed stakes in the fight against them. Part of the difficulty of managing the Mosul offensive is balancing the roles of the various local fighting forces and their foreign allies, to avoid breeding additional ethnic or sectarian hostility.
A big role for the Shi'ite militias, with their strong ties to Iran, could be particularly challenging for the United States and other countries suspicious of Iranian influence.
The Shi'ite offensive on Tal Afar will target an area which is close to Turkey and home to a sizeable population of ethnic Turkmen, with historic cultural ties to Turkey.
Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said this week his country, which has troops deployed north of Mosul inside Iraqi territory, will take measures if there is an attack on Tal Afar.
The population of Tal Afar was a mix of Sunni and Shi'ite ethnic Turkmen until Shi'ites fled the town after Islamic State's takeover two years ago.

NEW DELHI India is offering to buy hundreds of fighter planes from foreign manufacturers - as long as the jets are made in India and with a local partner, air force officials say.
A deal for 200 single-engine planes produced in India - which the air force says could rise to 300 as it fully phases out aging Soviet-era aircraft - could be worth anything from $13-$15 billion, experts say, potentially one of the country's biggest military aircraft deals.
After a deal to buy high-end Rafale planes from France's Dassault was scaled back to just 36 jets last month, the Indian Air Force is desperately trying to speed up other acquisitions and arrest a fall in operational strength, now a third less than required to face both China and Pakistan.
But Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration wants any further military planes to be built in India with an Indian partner to kickstart a domestic aircraft industry, and end an expensive addiction to imports. 
Lockheed Martin said it is interested in setting up a production line for its F-16 plane in India for not just the Indian military, but also for export.
And Sweden's Saab has offered a rival production line for its Gripen aircraft, setting up an early contest for one of the biggest military plane deals in play.
"The immediate shortfall is 200. That would be the minimum we would be looking at," said an air officer briefed on the Make-in-India plans under which a foreign manufacturer will partner local firms to build the aircraft with technology transfer.
India's defense ministry has written to several companies asking if they would be willing to set up an assembly line for single-engine fighter planes in India and the amount of technology transfer that would happen, another government source said.
"We are testing the waters, testing the foreign firms' willingness to move production here and to find out their expectations," the person said.

OPERATIONAL GAPS
India's air force originally planned for 126 Rafale twin-engine fighters from Dassault, but the two sides could not agree on the terms of local production with a state-run Indian firm and settled for 36 planes in a fly-away condition.
Adding to the military's problems is India's three-decade effort to build a single-engine fighter of its own which was meant to be the backbone of the air force. Only two of those Light Combat Aircraft, called Tejas, have been delivered to the air force which has ordered 140 of them.
The Indian Air Force is down to 32 operational squadrons compared with the 45 it has said are necessary, and in March the vice chief Air Marshal B.S. Dhanoa told parliament's defense committee that it didn't have the operational strength to fight a two front war against China and Pakistan.

JET MAKERS RESPOND
Saab said it was ready to not only produce its frontline Gripen fighter in India, but help build a local aviation industry base.
"We are very experienced in transfer of technology – our way of working involves extensive cooperation with our partners to establish a complete ecosystem, not just an assembly line," said Jan Widerström, Chairman and Managing Director, Saab India Technologies.
He confirmed Saab had received the letter from the Indian government seeking a fourth generation fighter. A source close to the company said that while there was no minimum order set in stone for it to lay down a production line, they would expect to build at least 100 planes at the facility.
Lockheed Martin said it had responded to the defense ministry's letter with an offer to transfer the entire production of its F-16 fighter to India.
"Exclusive F-16 production in India would make India home to the world's only F-16 production facility, a leading exporter of advanced fighter aircraft, and offer Indian industry the opportunity to become an integral part of the world's largest fighter aircraft supply chain," Abhay Paranjape, National Executive for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Business Development in India said in an email.

U.S. TOP SUPPLIER
Lockheed's offer comes on the back of expanding U.S.-India military ties in which Washington has emerged as India's top arms supplier in recent years, ousting old ally Russia.
Earlier this year Boeing also offered India its twin-engine F/A-18 Hornets, but the level of technology transfer was not clear.
India has never previously attempted to build a modern aircraft production line, whether military or civilian. State-run Hindustan Aeronautics (HAL) has assembled Russian combat jets including the Su-30, but these are under licensed production.
"We have never had control over technology. This represents the most serious attempt to build a domestic base. A full or a near-full tech transfer lays the ground for further development," said retired Indian air marshal M. Matheswaran, a former adviser at HAL.
He said the Indian government would be looking at producing at least 200 fighters, and then probably some more, to make up for the decades of delay in modernizing the air force.

UNITED NATIONS Russia failed to win re-election to the United Nations Human Rights Council on Friday, beaten out by Hungary and Croatia, following lobbying by rights groups against Moscow's candidacy because of its military support for the Syrian government.
In a secret ballot by the 193-member U.N. General Assembly, Hungary received 144 votes, followed by Croatia with 114 votes and Russia with 112 votes. Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said Moscow had faced good competition.
"It was a very close vote," Churkin told reporters. "Croatia, Hungary - they are fortunate because of their size they are not as exposed to the winds of international diplomacy;  Russia is quite exposed."
"We have been there a number of years, I'm sure next time we're going to get in," he said.
Russian air power has been backing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces in the country's nearly six-year war. A recent offensive to capture eastern Aleppo - the rebel-held half of Syria's largest city - has sparked international outrage.
Russia's three-year term on the 47-member Geneva-based Human Rights Council will finish on Dec. 31. It had been competing for a second three-year term. Council members cannot serve more than two consecutive terms.
"U.N. member states have sent a strong message to the Kremlin about its support for a regime that has perpetrated so much atrocity in Syria," said Louis Charbonneau, U.N. director at Human Rights Watch.
The United States, Egypt, Rwanda, Tunisia, Iraq and Japan were elected to the body, while Saudi Arabia, China, South Africa and Britain won a second terms. Their candidacies were uncontested but needed to win a majority vote. In the other competitive slate, Cuba and Brazil beat out Guatemala.
"The re-election of China, Cuba and Saudi Arabia - regimes which systematically violate the human rights of their citizens - casts a shadow upon the reputation of the United Nations," said U.N. Watch Executive Director Hillel Neuer."
A Saudi Arabia-led military campaign in Yemen has been criticized for killing civilians. U.N. sanctions monitors have accused the Saudi-led coalition, Houthi rebels and Yemen government troops of violating international humanitarian and human rights laws.


WASHINGTON The death last year in Washington of Mikhail Lesin, a Russian media executive and former adviser to President Vladimir Putin, was accidental and caused partly by alcohol poisoning after days of heavy drinking, U.S. authorities said on Friday.
Lesin, who was found dead in his hotel room on Nov. 5, 2015 at the age of 57, died partly from "acute ethanol intoxication," according to a statement by Washington's Metropolitan Police Department and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia.
Lesin served as Putin's press minister from 1999 to 2004. He was named head of Russia's state-controlled Gazprom-Media in 2013 but resigned the following year and moved to Los Angeles.
In 2014, U.S. Senator Roger Wicker asked the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate Lesin for violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Wicker, a Republican, questioned how Lesin was able to purchase $28 million worth of property in Los Angeles after he stopped working for the Russian government.
While Lesin's death sparked rumors of foul play at the time, law enforcement officials said the Justice Department had no open investigation of the case. On the night he died, Lesin was scheduled to attend a Washington gala honoring Russian billionaire and philanthropist Pyotr Aven, according to Radio Free Europe. But he never showed up.
The statement issued by U.S. authorities said Lesin entered his room at the Dupont Circle Hotel in Washington for the last time "after days of excessive alcohol consumption."
After reviewing video footage and evidence gathered during an investigation of Lesin's death, Washington's chief medical examiner concluded he died "as a result of blunt force injuries to his head, with contributing causes being blunt force injuries of the neck, torso, upper extremities and lower extremities, which were induced by falls, with acute ethanol intoxication," the statement said.

MANILA Chinese ships are no longer at the disputed Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea and Philippine boats can resume fishing, the Philippine defence minister said on Friday, calling the Chinese departure a "welcome development".
Philippine fishermen can access the shoal unimpeded for the first time in four years, Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said, capping off a startling turnaround in ties since his country rattled China by challenging its maritime claims at an international tribunal.
The departure of the Chinese coast guard ships comes after President Rodrigo Duterte's high-profile visit to Beijing and his repeated requests for China to end its blockade of the shoal, a tranquil lagoon rich in fish stocks.
"Since three days ago there are no longer Chinese ships, coast guard or navy, in the Scarborough area," Lorenzana told reporters.
    "If the Chinese ships have left, then it means our fishermen can resume fishing in the area."
Though the Scarborough Shoal is comprised of only a few rocks poking above the sea some 124 nautical miles off the Philippine mainland, it is symbolic of Manila's efforts to assert its maritime sovereignty claims.
Lorenzana did not explain the circumstances of the Chinese pullout from the shoal, the centrepiece of a case Manila filed in 2013 at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague that was decided in Manila's favour on July 12.
And there was some confusion about the situation at sea, with a Philippine military spokesman earlier saying Chinese vessels were "still there". Some fishermen familiar with the area said the same.
China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang made no mention of a coast guard withdrawal when asked about the return of Philippine fishermen to the shoal.
The two countries "were able to work together on issues regarding the South China Sea and appropriately resolve disputes," Lu told a regular briefing.
The United States backed Manila's arbitration case as part of its effort to stand up to what it sees as China's "excessive" maritime claims, only to come under repeated verbal attack from Duterte recently. Washington said it was still assessing Lorenzana's comments on the Chinese moves.
"We hope it's certainly not a temporary measure," State Department spokesman Mark Toner told a regular news briefing.
"We'd like it to be a sign that China and the Philippines are moving towards an agreement on fishing access at Scarborough reef that would be in accordance with the July 12 arbitral decision."
Greg Poling, a South China Sea expert at Washington's Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank, said a Chinese pullout from Scarborough Shoal would be "a big deal, if it's true and if it's sustained."
"But there is a lot that is still unclear," he said.
"Is this a sign of a new status quo, whereby China will effectively comply with the arbitral award by allowing Filipino fishermen access to Scarborough?
"Or is it just an olive branch while the two sides haggle over language for a long-term deal, which might prove impossible to reach if Beijing insists on language suggesting it is 'permitting' or 'allowing' the Philippines access?'"
The Hague court declared that despite Scarborough Shoal being located within the Philippines' 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone, no one country had sovereign rights to it, so all claimants may fish there.

PEACE OVERTURES
China has refused to recognise the case or the award, which also invalidated the nine-dash line on Chinese maps denoting its claims to most of the South China Sea.
China seized Scarborough Shoal - claimed by Beijing as Huangyan Island and by Manila as Panatag - in 2012.
The previous Philippines administration's pursuit of the case infuriated China, but Beijing appears to have changed its stance since Duterte took office and started praising Beijing, often in the same sentences as his perplexing verbal attacks on longtime ally the United States.
Reuters exclusively reported on the eve of Duterte's visit to China that Beijing would consider granting Philippine fishermen conditional access to the shoal.
An end to the standoff over the shoal is still a potentially combustible issue for both countries.
Some Philippine commentators say Manila may object to any reference to its fishermen being "permitted" to return, while Beijing might be wary of appearing to be softening its position on what it calls "indisputable" sovereignty.
Duterte's spokesman, Ernesto Abella, offered no comment on whether the two sides had reached agreement.
"All I can say, at this stage, it has been observed there are no longer Chinese coast guard in the area," he said.
China's Lu hailed Duterte's recent visit as a success and said both countries were able to discuss the South China Sea impasse.
"It is completely possible that the bilateral relationship can recover," Lu said.
"I can tell you that the two sides are in communication."

CURITIBA, Brazil A long-anticipated plea bargain deal with the construction firm at the center of Brazil's largest graft scheme is at least "months" away and could fall apart due to interference by fearful politicians, a top prosecutor told Reuters.
Construction firm Odebrecht SA [ODBES.UL], the largest in Latin America, is accused of being the main corporate driver behind the long-running massive political kickback scheme at state oil company Petrobras.
Local media reports of a nearly final plea bargain have heightened expectations of an impending political bombshell. If top Odebrecht executives turn state's witnesses, they could implicate scores of politicians who took bribes.
"There is no signed deal. There is no agreement. There are many details large and small to work out," said Carlos Lima, a lead prosecutor in the sprawling kickback probe focused on Petrobras, formally known as Petroleo Brasileiro SA Petrobras.
"All these negotiations are extremely complex and they take a long time to finalize because they involve many facts, many people," Lima said on Thursday in an interview at his office in the southern city of Curitiba, where federal police, prosecutors and a crusading judge have led Brazil's anti-corruption fight.
Lima emphasized repeatedly there "is no agreement with Odebrecht, neither with the individuals nor a (leniency) deal with the company."
Lawyers for Odebrecht said in an email they could not talk about the ongoing negotiations with prosecutors.
Graft took place not just in Brazil, but in several other Latin American nations and in Africa where the company has  infrastructure projects, some of which are already under investigation, according to investigators.
Marcelo Odebrecht, the firm's former chief executive officer, is serving a 19-year jail term after he was convicted of corruption this year.
For months after his arrest last year, Odebrecht steadfastly refused to consider turning state's witness.
Prosecutors made clear that if he remained silent, they would dismiss any deal for dozens of company executives or the firm itself.
Before he was sentenced this year, Marcelo Odebrecht told lawmakers running a congressional probe into the Petrobras scheme that "to snitch, you have to have something to snitch."
He added that if one of his children had done something wrong, "I'd maybe have more of a problem with the one who snitched than the one who did it."

NOT MUCH CONFIDENCE
The company quickly changed its tune. In March police  discovered through documents and records on executives' mobile phones that the company had created a department devoted to tracking billions in bribes paid out to politicians over the years in return for winning bloated government contracts.
The company announced it was willing to cooperate "to help build a better Brazil."
Odebrecht is further motivated to strike a leniency agreement because like other construction firms involved in the Petrobras scheme, it is blocked from winning any government contracts.
Also, credit has dried up and the company is trying to restructure over 100 billion reais ($31.69 billion) in debt.
That led Marcelo Odebrecht's father Emilio, the former CEO, to push his son to strike a deal with prosecutors, according to two government sources.
Lima would not discuss details about the negotiations. While he said he is more optimistic now than a few months ago over a deal, he issued a warning.
"I cannot say I have great confidence that any deal will be reached because we're living with incredible institutional instability," he said. "I don't know how much interest there is on the part of the federal government that these types of deals are reached."
"A good chunk of what is discussed in these negotiations, not just with Odebrecht, involves politicians who are or were active in government."
Critics have blasted new President Michel Temer's government and congressmen from his Brazilian Democratic Movement Party for trying to weaken the independence of corruption probes in an attempt to protect corrupt officials.
Lima pointed to the updating of a 1965 dictatorship-era "Abuse of Authority Law" proposed by Senate leader Renan Calheiros, who is under investigation in the Petrobras graft scheme.
The law would hold judges and investigators criminally liable if a high court overturns a decision ordering the imprisonment of a suspect or dismisses charges. The measure is currently in the Senate in a Congress dominated by Temer's party and its allies.
Federal judges and prosecutors have held protests in recent weeks against the law, saying it is a direct threat against pursuing suspects in the growing number of complex corruption cases surfacing in Brazil.
"It's really simple. They are trying to discourage people from investigating and to impede new cases," Lima said. "Why would someone stick their neck out to investigate and be punished if they would make the same salary by doing absolutely nothing?"

MUZAFFARABAD, Pakistan India and Pakistan traded accusations that each had killed civilians in cross-border shelling on Friday, as tensions between the nuclear-armed neighbors continued to fester.
Three civilians, including a young girl, were killed as Indian troops shelled villages along the Line of Control in Pakistan-administered Kashmir on Friday, a Pakistani official said. Indian officials, meanwhile, said two civilians died when Pakistani shells hit India's side of the contested border.
In addition, a statement released by the Indian army on Friday evening said that militants at the Line of Control mutilated the body of an Indian soldier they'd killed before crossing back into Pakistan.
They did so "supported by covering fire from Pakistan Army posts," the statement said. "This act will invite an appropriate response."
The reports of bloodshed came just a day after New Delhi and Islamabad announced on Thursday that each is expelling a diplomat from the other country. India accused the Pakistani diplomat of running a spy ring and Pakistan cited "deep concern" about the activities of the Indian diplomat.
Shelling by both sides in the divided and disputed Himalayan regions has been going on since gunmen killed 19 Indian soldiers in September at an army camp in Kashmir, an attack India blamed on Pakistan-based militants.
India-administered Kashmir has also been rocked by street protests which began after the July killing of a militant leader there. Indian officials have blamed Pakistan for fanning that unrest.
The facts on the ground are often difficult to ascertain, with accusations and statements from India or Pakistan quickly rebutted by the other.
For instance, Additional Director General Arun Kumar of India's Border Security Force (BSF) said on Friday that the barrages unleashed by his troops in the past week in response to Pakistan aggression had been effective.
"Fifteen Pakistani soldiers have been killed in retaliatory firing and shelling by BSF. We have destroyed their OP (outposts) and damaged a few," Kumar said.
A statement released by the Pakistani military's press wing denied that was the case: "Indian claim of killing any Pakistani soldier at working boundary is absolutely baseless and untrue. Indian claim is part of their propaganda campaign aimed to hide their losses at working boundary and also divert world attention from Kashmir issue."

BELFAST Northern Ireland's High Court on Friday rejected an attempt to block Britain's exit from the European Union, saying that neither the province's parliament nor its laws could override a decision by the British government.
But it said it would defer to English courts on the wider issue of whether the British government has the right to invoke Article 50 of the EU Lisbon Treaty to leave the bloc without the explicit backing of the British parliament.
Prime Minister Theresa May welcomed the ruling, with a spokesman saying it would allow the British government "to proceed to trigger Article 50 as planned".
One of the plaintiffs, human rights activist Raymond McCord, said he would appeal against the ruling in the Supreme Court, Britain's highest judicial body.
The case is the first judgment in legal disputes over Brexit that are being closely watched by politicians and markets. It comes amid political tension among the four nations of the United Kingdom - England and Wales, which voted to leave the EU, and Northern Ireland and Scotland, which voted to remain.
A case in London will rule on whether May can use the  government's "royal prerogative" power to trigger Article 50 without consulting parliament.
"The fact that the government has won in the Northern Ireland case could be seen to indicate that its prerogative power is holding up pretty well," said Stephen Tierney, director of the Edinburgh Centre for Constitutional Law.
"I would personally be surprised if the High Court in England reached a different conclusion," he said.
Scotland's pro-independence government said it did not believe the court ruling gave any clear pointers to its own situation.
"We are considering the judgment, but it must be noted that this case examined the specifics of the situation in Northern Ireland and therefore has no automatic implications for Scotland," a spokesman for the Scottish government said.

STERLING DIPS
Sterling fell to an eight-day low against the euro after the ruling.
Overall, 52 percent of the United Kingdom voted in favor of leaving the EU in June's referendum, but 56 percent of those voting in Northern Ireland backed remaining in the bloc.
There are fears that Brexit could undermine a 1998 peace deal, the Good Friday Agreement, which ended three decades of bloodshed in the province, and could lead to the reintroduction of unpopular controls on the border with the Republic of Ireland, an EU member.
But justice Paul Maguire said it was "not viable" that Northern Ireland should overrule the 52 percent of the United Kingdom as a whole that voted in favor of leaving.
The regional parliament would have a say on legislation passed to enact Britain's exit, but the triggering of Article 50 itself was not a "devolved matter".
"The UK Parliament has retained to itself the ability to legislate for NI without the need to resort to any special procedure," Maguire said.
The arguments about May's rights to trigger Article 50 "have been held over pending the outcome of the English litigation", he added.

SCOTTISH IMPLICATIONS
Rights activist McCord told reporters that the ruling was just a setback and he would continue to fight Brexit.
"I believe what we are doing is correct. Fifty-six percent of the people of this country (Northern Ireland) voted to remain."
A group of politicians and rights groups who launched a parallel case that was merged with McCord's said they were "deeply disappointed" by the rejection of their case, but had not yet decided whether to appeal.
Northern Ireland's largest Irish nationalist party, Sinn Fein, said it would study the judgment carefully and explore every option to ensure the remain vote was respected.
That chimes with the stance of the devolved Scottish government, which is trying to drum up support to keep its membership of the EU's single market for goods and services.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has said it would be an act of "constitutional vandalism" to try to ignore Scotland’s voice.
"The First Minister has made clear that any proposal to remove Scotland from the EU would need legislation at Westminster, and that legislation would require the consent of the Scottish Parliament," a Scottish government spokesman said.
Her party has drawn up draft legislation on a second referendum on independence from the UK, which it says is an option to protect Scotland’s position within the EU.

PARIS French Prime Minister Manuel Valls voiced anger over unguarded comments by Socialist President Francois Hollande published in a recent book, Le Monde reported on Friday, dealing a further blow to the embattled leader.
During a flight to Bordeaux on Thursday, Valls spoke of the "anger" and "shame" among Hollande's supporters over his published indiscretions, the newspaper reported.
"It's how I feel, and one should not keep silent but always call things by their name," he was quoted as saying. "The book has caused shock and devastation among lawmakers."
In their book, "A President Shouldn't Say That", Le Monde journalists Gerard Davet and Fabrice Lhomme quote Hollande's disparaging comments about judges as well as remarks on immigration and Islam that are highly controversial among his left-wing majority.
It also quotes him confirming "at least four" targeted killings of Islamist militants he had approved since 2012 - before telling the authors a month later that he had never issued explicit orders to kill suspects.
Hollande, who even before the book's publication was France's most unpopular president in modern history, is now under pressure from some former supporters to rule out standing for another term in elections next April and May.
The comments by Valls, until now one of Hollande's most steadfastly loyal backers, underline the uphill struggle he would face. The Spanish-born prime minister has signaled his own readiness to run for the presidency if Hollande steps aside.
"Because of the current political situation, I feel that I have a real responsibility to ensure we emerge as strongly as possible from this perilous period," he also told Le Monde.

PARIS France has delayed a decision on promised nuclear reactor decommissioning, effectively putting on hold a process that could ultimately be overturned with a change of government next year.
A government investment roadmap published on Friday stopped short of identifying reactors for closure under 2015 legislation that commits France to reducing atomic energy to 50 percent of its electrical power mix, from more than 75 percent currently.
Instead, the Energy Ministry plans leaves it to state utility EDF to issue a strategic review of plants and energy requirements around April of next year.
However, the final decision on whether the reactors are scrapped is a political one.
France goes to the polls in the first round of presidential voting in April, followed by legislative elections in June - meaning the issue looks unlikely to be resolved before a new president and assembly has been elected.
Former Prime Minister Alain Juppe, the conservative candidate currently leading the race, has called Socialist President Francois Hollande's 50 percent target absurd and vowed to scrap it, in common with several other right-wing candidates.
Lawmaker Herve Mariton, a Juppe ally and prominent energy specialist among the conservative Les Republicains, has also rejected Hollande's plan to close EDF's ageing Fessenheim plant after a new reactor opens at Flamanville in 2018.
Opinion polls show conservative candidates easily defeating any potential Socialist rivals in the presidential election, which takes place in two rounds, the second due in May.
Environmental group Greenpeace said the French government was failing to implement the 2015 energy law and had betrayed last year's Paris Climate Agreement to curb climate-warming emissions by not doing enough to support renewable energy alternatives.
In order to meet the 2015 commitment, France would have had to decide on the shutdown of 22 reactors by now, it said.
According to the energy investment plan published on Friday, a decision to close Fessenheim, France's oldest nuclear plant, will be taken by the end of the year. The plan also pledged to almost double renewable power output to 150-167 terawatt hours (TWh) by 2030.
The plan also seeks to cut nuclear power output by 10 to 65 TWh by 2023.
(Corrects date of legislative elections to June in fifth paragraph)

WASHINGTON The U.S. State Department said on Friday it had voiced concern to Myanmar's foreign minister about the reported rape of Rohingya Muslim women by soldiers during a recent upsurge in violence against the persecuted minority.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the United States wanted Myanmar to investigate the reported rapes and hold those responsible accountable.


BEIRUT Lebanese Druze leader Walid Jumblatt said on Friday that most members of his political bloc, the Democratic Gathering, would support Christian leader Michel Aoun to become president of Lebanon next week.
The announcement added to already considerable support for Aoun, who most analysts expect to expect to win Monday's vote in parliament and end Lebanon's two-and-a-half year wait for a president.
The top post has been empty during a period of political in-fighting that has raised concerns for the country's stability and resulted in a breakdown in many basic services.
Jumblatt said the bloc - which controls 11 of parliament's 128 seats - would hold a final meeting on the issue on Saturday.
But most members backed Aoun. "This (support) will be translated in a practical way on Monday afternoon," he added.
Aoun, in his 80s, is unlikely to secure the two-thirds majority needed to win the first-round vote on Monday.
But most analysts expect him to secure the simple majority needed to win a second vote to be held the same day.
The Lebanese presidency is reserved for a Maronite Christian in the country's sectarian power-sharing arrangement and has been empty since Michel Suleiman's term ended in May, 2014.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Around 1.5 million children in Yemen are malnourished and half the population lives in hunger, United Nations aid agencies said on Friday, three days after pictures of an emaciated Yemeni teenager sparked headlines around the world.
Yemen's 18-month war has left 370,000 children at risk of severe malnutrition - a condition which needs urgent treatment to prevent a child from dying - the U.N. children's agency UNICEF said at a press briefing in Geneva on Friday.
"It is really a dire situation on the ground. When you see mothers who have little to eat themselves and they see their children slipping away, it just breaks your heart," said World Food Programme (WFP) spokeswoman Bettina Luescher at the briefing.
"It really is shocking and horrible to see this in the 21st century."
Overall, almost half of all children in Yemen are stunted, according to WFP. Stunting is where children are short for their age, and is a sign of chronic malnutrition.
Luescher said because of diminishing resources and increased needs the U.N. agency has had to split food aid into smaller rations to reach 6 million people every month.
Around 7 million Yemenis are "desperately in need of food", she said, and the situation could worsen as the war rages.
Even before the conflict broke out, Yemen had one of the highest rates of malnutrition in the world, WFP said.
The agency said it needed $257 million to provide food aid until March next year.
These reports come after recent Reuters photos of a starving 18-year-old girl in a Yemeni hospital attracted worldwide attention.
The teenager is one of more than 13 million people, about half of Yemen's population, who are short of food, with much of the country on the brink of famine, according to the United Nations.
Her picture is a reminder of the humanitarian crisis in the Arabian Peninsula's poorest country where at least 10,000 people have been killed and millions displaced by fighting between the Saudi-led Arab coalition and the Iran-allied Houthi movement.
The humanitarian situation in Yemen has been compounded by a recent cholera outbreak, the World Health Organization said on Friday, with the number of suspected cases ballooning to 1,410 within three weeks of the outbreak being declared.

BELGRADE More than 1,000 migrants, trapped in Serbia after fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and Central Asia, have occupied a derelict warehouse in the capital Belgrade, where they are preparing to tough out a bitter Balkan winter.
More than 100,000 migrants have passed through Serbia this year, from countries such as Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, to seek sanctuary in the wealthy countries of northern Europe. But border closures have left many stranded.
"We want to go to Italy, Germany, France, but the border is closed at Hungary and Croatia," said Najib, who said he was from Afghanistan.
Around him, men warmed their hands on camp fires, as smoke drifted up into the high rafters, and others perched on car tyres as they washed at a makeshift sink in a vain attempt to keep away the filth of the tumbledown building.
Last year, hundreds of thousands of refugees swept through the Balkans, prompting countries to throw up near-impenetrable barriers to block them. More than 6,400 refugees are trapped in Serbia, 1,200 of them in this warehouse, aid workers say.
Some who had made it further north said they were beaten by police at the Hungarian border and sent back to Belgrade. Many had Serbian documents telling them they had no grounds to remain - but few have the means to return home.
"Here, look at this place, it's very dirty. I become sick," said Imrar Khan, 17, who left Pakistan three months ago. Dozens of migrants bed down in rows between piles of garbage in the warehouse, near the city's central station.
Authorities blame people traffickers for much of the influx. Since the beginning of the year, they have prevented 5,000 illegal border crossings and charged 356 people with the smuggling of around 2,000 people.

MOSCOW Russia on Friday despatched the naval destroyer Smetlivy to Syria to join its battle group there for a few months, Russian government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta reported.
It said the heavily armed ship had left the Crimean port of Sevastopol on Friday to great fanfare.
Ruptly, a video news agency financed by the Russian government, said the ship would first head for the Greek port of Piraeus to take part in an event connected with the Russian-Greek year of culture.
Ruptly said the Smetlivy would depart Piraeus on Nov. 2.

GENEVA The United Nations has negotiated the release of nearly 900 children detained by Nigeria's army and security forces after they have retaken land from Boko Haram militants, a senior official said.
The 876 children had been held in the barracks in Maiduguri, UNICEF's Manuel Fontaine said after visiting the northeastern city.
It was not immediately clear how long they had been held, but the army routinely detains civilians who have been living in areas that had been ruled by the insurgents on suspicion that they too might be linked to militant activities.
However, rights groups say there is no proper legal process for such civilians, including the children, since they do not get formally charged and some end up in so-called rehabilitation centers, which the groups say are like prisons.
The United Nations says children should not be detained.
"We fear that there are still kids who are being at least temporarily detained because they are being released from Boko Haram areas by the army but then kept for a while," Fontaine, UNICEF'S regional director for Western and Central Africa, told reporters by telephone.
He give no details of the ages of the children or how long they had been at the barracks - but after President Muhammadu Buhari came to power in May 2015, security forces began an offensive, backed by neighbouring countries, to retake territory from Boko Haram, meaning at least some of the children could have been held for a year or more.
There was no immediate comment from the army. Army officials say they need to question civilians to establish whether they have any ties with the militant group, which has been trying for seven years to set up an Islamic state.
The security situation remains volatile in northeastern Borno state and its capital Maiduguri because Boko Haram still stages suicide bombings, often using women or teenagers.
Fontaine also said the conflict, which has killed thousands and displaced more than 2 million, had separated around 20,000 children from their parents, of which 5,000 had since been reunited with their families.
"Once we get children out, there is a major issue of stigmatization in the communities," Fontaine said. "There is a sense that children who have been associated with Boko Haram for a while, could be, and in some cases we have some evidence, are rejected by community and people around them."
This was also a problem for the girls freed from the town of Chibok, he said. Nigeria this month negotiated, with the help of Switzerland, the release of 21 of more than 200 girls Boko Haram kidnapped in April 2014.

HELSINKI The European Union must ensure future trade deals do not require the approval of all national and regional parliaments, Finland's trade minister said on Friday, warning that, if not, Europe will never be able to get a deal with the United States.
Kai Mykkanen said the EU had to avoid a repeat of what had happened to an EU trade deal with Canada, which until this week looked like it could be killed off due to objections from a region of Belgium.
The European Court of Justice is due to rule next year on whether such deals can be done purely at an EU-level or whether they must be approved unanimously by parliaments, a so-called "mixed" approach.
"The path of mixed deals has reached its end. The EU must be able to negotiate progressive trade pacts without getting stuck in a single member state," Mykkanen told Reuters in an interview.
"It is absolutely clear that regarding TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the United States) we can't even think of using the same method and throw the pact for the piranhas."
Initially, the deal with Canada was meant to be approved by the 28 national European governments as an EU-exclusive deal.
But pressure from some EU states, including Germany, led the European Commission to accept it as mixed - a victory for consumer, labor and environmental campaigners who say free trade deals can put hard-won safeguards at risk.
A mixed deal needs to be ratified by some 40 national and regional parliaments.
Mykkanen said trade pacts could be split into two parts, with one requiring approval from parliaments, and the other just needing support from a majority of EU governments.
"Issues under national jurisdiction would still need acceptance from all the member states, but at least those issues wouldn't hold the common trade policy hostage," he said.
"I call for leadership here. I think Europe has lacked vision on its common interest in these pacts and we have been stuck in some narrow questions which have no real meaning."

CAIRO An explosive device detonated along a main road in Cairo on Friday as security forces passed by, killing at least one civilian passerby and injuring another, the interior ministry said on Facebook.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility.
Egypt faces an Islamist insurgency led by Islamic State's branch in North Sinai, where hundreds of soldiers and police have been killed. There have also been attacks in Cairo and other cities.
Last week, Brigadier General Adel Rajaaie, an armored division commander who had served in northern Sinai, was shot dead in front of his home on the outskirts of Cairo.
A newly-emerged militant group calling itself Louwaa el Thawra, or the Revolution Brigade, claimed responsibility for the attack on a Twitter account that was suspended shortly after the claim.
Judges and other senior officials have increasingly been targeted by radical Islamists angered by hefty prison sentences imposed on members of the now-outlawed Muslim Brotherhood.
The Brotherhood, which says it is a peaceful organization, and its candidate Mohamed Mursi won Egypt's first free elections after the 2011 uprising that ended Hosni Mubarak's 30-year rule.
Since Mursi was deposed in 2013 after mass protests against his rule, former army chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has overseen a crackdown in which hundreds of Brotherhood supporters have been killed and thousands jailed or sentenced to death.
Another new militant group called the Hasm ("decisiveness") Movement has claimed responsibility for five attacks since July, including an assassination attempt on Zakaria Abdel Aziza, a senior Egyptian prosecutor.
The group said the attack was in revenge for death sentences handed down to thousands of convicts.

BRUSSELS Bulgaria's European commissioner Kristalina Georgieva, who unsuccessfully sought the post of United Nations Secretary-General in September, has been named as chief executive of the World Bank.
The European Commission said on Friday that Georgieva, a vice-president at the EU executive who is responsible for the EU's budget, will resign and take up her new job in January.
Germany's Gunther Oettinger, the European commissioner responsible for digital economy policy, will take over the portfolio, which will handle talks on how to manage the EU's budget after Britain leaves the European Union.

MOSCOW The Russian Defence Ministry said on Friday its General Staff had asked President Vladimir Putin for permission to resume air strikes against militants in Syria's eastern Aleppo after a 10-day hiatus, the Interfax news agency reported.
The ministry cited an upsurge in militant activity and continuing civilian deaths to justify its request. There was no word on whether Putin was likely to grant it.

BERLIN Volkswagen said it has refitted 1.23 million diesel cars with a software update on pollution control systems as it pushes steps to overcome its emissions scandal.
The number of 1.2-litre and 2.0-litre diesel cars repaired has more than doubled within several weeks from 500,000 previously, a Volkswagen (VW) spokesman said.
The refitted cars include models from VW brand, Audi, Skoda, Seat and VW commercial vehicles, he said.
Some 5.6 million vehicles have so far been cleared for repair by Germany's motor vehicle authority KBA. Approval by the KBA is valid for countries throughout Europe where 8.5 million diesel cars are affected by VW's emissions test-cheating scandal. About 11 million cars are implicated globally.

MANILA A mayor on Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte's wanted list for alleged drugs links was killed along with nine of his guards in a shootout on Friday, police said, as a new phase of a bloody narcotics crackdown zeroed-in on high profile targets.
The 10 men succumbed to their wounds en route to hospital, police said, having opened fire on officers who tried to stop their two vehicles at a checkpoint in Duterte's troubled home province of Mindanao before dawn.
"It was a legitimate police operation," said Bernard Tayong of the North Cotabato police office, adding that no officers were hurt but a police vehicle was riddled with bullets.
"We have information the mayor and his men were transporting drugs so we tried to intercept them but they chose to shoot it out," he told reporters.
The killing of Samsudin Dimaukom, a powerful mayor, took place far from his predominantly Muslim town of Datu Saudi Ampatuan.
It came as police shift tactics in the controversial war on drugs by focusing on politicians, government officials, celebrities and high-ranking army and police suspected of involvement in the trade.
The new plan, called "Project Double Barrel Alpha", was reported exclusively by Reuters on Monday and aims to increase arrests and reduce the bloodshed in a campaign that has claimed more than 2,300 lives since Duterte took office on June 30.
Duterte won a May election on the promises of killing criminals and campaigned under the logo of a clenched fist.
Duterte returned from a visit to Japan late on Thursday and during a news conference waved a thick book he said contained names of officials suspected of drug links. The book contains about 3,000 names.
"I do not want to make this public because it will just make the Filipino cry," he said.
Of those killed in the anti-drugs campaign, more than 1,600 died during police operations, a toll that has drawn international concern about extrajudicial killings.

SHIFTING FOCUS
Duterte has fiercely defended the campaign and has repeatedly lashed out at his critics.
A recent poll showed public unease over the crackdown, with 94 percent of respondents saying it was important that police take suspects alive.
Police investigators said seven guns, including an Armalite rifle and 13 small packs of suspected methamphetamines were recovered from the mayor's vehicle after Friday's firefight.
The mayor's wife, who is also the town's vice mayor, is also on Duterte's wanted list.
National police spokesman Dionardo Carlos told Reuters on Thursday the drugs war had been expanded to go beyond poorer areas where low-level peddlers operate.
New targets were transport networks, show business circles, nightclubs and wealthier neighborhoods to root out drugs like cocaine and ecstasy.
Carlos denied there was a deliberate sanctioning of extrajudicial killings. He said fatalities occurred when suspects refused to surrender and police were keen to avoid violence.
"That's why we are shifting to Alpha," he added.
Since late June, 750,000 drug users had surrendered, some 30,000 suspects were arrested. Of the "high value" targets, 201 had surrendered, 66 were arrested and 14 were killed.
He said 150,000 police had been drug tested and 164 gave positive results and would be dismissed.
Police would soon receive a large consignment of body armor, Carlos said, adding instructions were being given "to make sure you are not giving (drug suspects) the chance to put your lives in danger".

MOSCOW Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said on Monday a U.S.-led coalition was encouraging Islamic State fighters to move from Iraq to Syria.
Speaking after talks with his Russian and Iranian counterparts in Moscow, Muallem said the coalition wanted the fighters to move from Iraq's Mosul to Syria's Raqqa, the de facto capital of the radical Sunni group in Syria.

RIYADH Yemen's Houthi militia launched a ballistic missile toward Mecca on Thursday, the Saudi-led coalition intervening in Yemen's civil war on behalf of the government said in a statement.
Coalition forces destroyed the missile 65 km (40 miles) from the holy city before it could do any damage, and retaliated against the launch site inside Yemen, said the statement, carried on the state news agency SPA. Mecca is home to the most sacred sites in Islam, including the Grand Mosque.
The Shi'ite Muslim Houthis confirmed the launch of a Burkan-1 ballistic missile into Saudi Arabia in a statement on their official news agency, but said it had been aimed at King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah, the kingdom's busiest airport.
The six-member Gulf Cooperation Council denounced the missile attack.
Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed of the United Arab Emirates, a member of the coalition and the GCC, pointed the finger at Iran, which backs the Houthis.
"The Iranian regime is supporting a terrorist group that fires its rockets on Mecca, is this an Islamic regime as it claims?" he tweeted.
The coalition has been fighting Houthi rebels and forces loyal to former president Ali Abdullah Saleh, who control much of the north of Yemen including the capital Sanaa, since March 2015 to try to restore the internationally recognized president Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi, now in exile.

MOSCOW Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday a Marshall plan was needed for Syria, similar to a Western agreement to help post-war Germany.
Speaking after talks with his Syrian and Iranian counterparts in Moscow, Lavrov said unlawful sanctions against Syria would harm its civilian population and there was no alternative to a political solution to the country's civil war.

MINSK A Belarussian blogger known for his criticism of Russian foreign policy will be released next month after spending 10 months in prison on charges of inciting ethnic hatred and disseminating pornography, a rights group said.
Edward Palchis was arrested in January in Russia and extradited to Belarus. His trial began on Oct 14.
Human rights campaigners said Palchis, who is known under the pseudonym "John Silver", was targeted for criticizing Russian foreign policy, its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea peninsula and role in the east Ukrainian separatist conflict.
The Minsk City Court sentenced him to one year and nine months of a "restriction of freedom" on Friday but taking into account the time he had already served in jail, said he would be released next month, the rights group Spring 96 told Reuters.
    "He will serve the remaining month of his sentence under house arrest," Spring 96's representative Valentin Stefanovic told Reuters.
    "We welcome the fact that the authorities have shown restraint."
    Seeking to improve ties with the West, authoritarian President Alexander Lukashenko last year pardoned several political prisoners, prompting the European Union to lift five years of sanctions against the country once called 'Europe's last dictatorship' by the United States.
Belarus, which is seeking up to $3.4 billion in loans from the International Monetary Fund and EU investment, has also tried to stick to neutral ground over the Ukraine crisis. It has not recognized the annexation of Crimea and regularly hosts peace talks.
     The charges against Palchis relate to an online article he wrote in April 2015 in which he reposted xenophobic, lewd and violent memes about Belarus from a Russian social media website to illustrate his argument against Russian internet policy.


VIENNA The head of Austria's opposition far right Freedom Party (FPO) has posted online a text by a writer whose poem was used by the Nazis, causing an outcry only weeks before his party's candidate fights a neck-and-neck presidential election.
FPO chief Heinz-Christian Strache posted the excerpt from Ottokar Kernstock's poem "Be blessed without end", which served as the Austrian anthem between 1929 and 1938, on his Facebook page on Wednesday, Austria's national holiday.
In 1923 Kernstock penned the poem "The Swastika" for an Austrian national-socialist group. He died in 1928.
Strache, who has since removed the excerpt, wrote on Facebook Kernstock's text was the anthem of a "democratic Austria which ... was unfortunately dismantled by the Austrofascists and which afterwards had to suffer disastrous and cruel times under the (National Socialists)".
The post prompted independent presidential candidate Alexander Van der Bellen to ask his FPO rival Norbert Hofer to distance himself from it. The FPO was not immediately available for comment.
"One can call Kernstock one of those who paved the way for National Socialism," Van der Bellen told the newspaper Kurier. "What's keeping Hofer from protesting against this?"
Van der Bellen, a former Greens leader, beat Hofer in a vote in May by 31,000 votes. However, the result was annulled due to irregularities in counting postal ballots.
A rerun is to be held on Dec. 4, in which Hofer could become Europe's first far-right head of state in decades.
A spokesman for Vienna police said the case was with the prosecutor's office to see whether a crime had been committed. It is illegal in Austria to spread National Socialist ideas.
While the presidential race looks too close to call, the FPO has for months been leading opinion polls for parliamentary elections due in 2018, ahead of the two centrist parties who rule Austria, which was annexed by Nazi Germany in 1938.
The Newspaper Der Standard on its front page said of Strache's posting, apparently referring to Austria's Nazi annexation "whoever wants to go along with this must understand that this is a road to perdition, which we've been on once before".
Strache's posting followed criticism of the FPO's General Secretary speaking at a conference on Saturday about "the ethno-cultural crowding out of European peoples".
Social Democrat Chancellor Christian Kern described the conference as a far-right networking event and thanked organizers of protests against it for their actions.

JALALABAD, Afghanistan An airstrike in Afghanistan on Friday hit the home of a Taliban commander in the eastern province of Nangarhar and caused several civilian casualties, government and insurgent spokesmen said.
The strike targeted the home of Mawlawi Mohammad Alam, a  Taliban commander in the Sherzad district, said Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the provincial governor, adding that there were casualties but he could not confirm numbers.
A police official said the strike was carried out by an unmanned aircraft and killed four people inside the house.
A dozen wounded civilians, among them seven children and five women, were taken to the local hospital, said Najibullah Kamawal, the director of provincial health services, four of them in critical condition.
U.S. forces had carried out a strike in Sherzad on Friday in defense of "friendly forces", a spokesman for the NATO-led Resolute Support mission said in Kabul, the capital, but gave no details. Reports of civilian casualties would be investigated, he added.
"We take all allegations of civilian casualties seriously and will work with our Afghan partners to review all related material," Brigadier General Charles Cleveland said in an emailed statement.
In a statement, the Taliban said American and Afghan forces had carried out a ground attack on Mohammad Alam's home, followed by an airstrike, in which two civilians were killed and more than 30 wounded.
The United States has unleashed many raids against Islamic State and al Qaeda militants in eastern Afghanistan, most recently on Sunday, when officials said two al Qaeda leaders were killed in the neighboring province of Kunar.
However, new combat rules issued this year have also given U.S. commanders greater scope to attack Taliban militants, pushing up the number of airstrikes sharply.

ISLAMABAD Pakistani police in the city of Rawalpindi on Friday used tear gas in clashes with stone-throwing supporters of Pakistani opposition leader Imran Khan defying a ban on public gatherings.
There was no immediate report of injuries but TV stations carried footage of police firing tear gas and charging with batons at rock-hurling protesters.
Several key roads in Rawalpindi, about 20 km (12 miles) from Islamabad, have been blocked off with containers ahead of Khan's planned appearance at a political rally. On Thursday, the officials banned all public rallies in Islamabad and Rawalpindi.

DUBLIN A Northern Ireland rights activist whose attempt to block Britain's exit from the European Union was rejected on Friday by the province's High Court said he would appeal to the British Supreme Court.
The High Court on Friday ruled that the law of the province did not restrict the British prime minister's ability to trigger an exit from the European Union, and that the consent of the regional parliament was not required.
"Today is a setback but we will see the judges in London," rights activist Raymond McCord told journalists at the court. "I believe what we are doing is correct. Fifty-six percent of the people of this country (Northern Ireland) voted to remain."
A group of politicians and rights groups who took a parallel case that was merged with McCord's said they were "deeply disappointed" by the rejection of their case, but had not yet decided whether to appeal.

BEIJING A senior Chinese corruption fighter on Friday blasted those who think the battle against graft is aimed at the ruling Communist Party's political foes, saying the entire Chinese nation would be offended if corruption was not confronted.
There has been repeated speculation at home and abroad - and sources with ties to the leadership have told that President Xi Jinping's graft crackdown is as much about Xi taking down his enemies as it is about cleaning up the party.
Xi himself addressed this on a visit to the United States last year, saying China's fight against entrenched corruption was not a "House of Cards"-style power struggle.
Speaking at a rare press conference, Wu Yuliang, a deputy party boss of the party's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, likened the fight to uprooting rotten trees when asked if the campaign was selective and aimed a political enemies.
"When uprooting rotten trees, of course you must start with the most rotten. If you say this is selective, then I think this is a kind of way of working," Wu said, speaking after a four-day party meeting that further bolstered Xi's power.
"But I think perhaps there is another meaning to this question you have raised," he added.
"In the past some people have attacked us for not opposing corruption, and now we have increased the ante in the corruption fight, they say it's selective. In reality, this is a case of 'though drunken, one's real interest is not in wine'", Wu said, using an expression meaning somebody has ulterior motives.
The party was devoted to the people and fighting graft was completely in the public interest, he added.
"If you don't give offense to corrupt elements, then you will give offense to China's 1.3 billion people."
Xi has warned that corruption threatens the Communist Party's survival and his almost four-year anti-graft campaign has brought down scores of senior officials in the party, the government, the military and state-owned enterprises.

COLOGNE, Germany Hani Salam escaped civil war in Syria and survived the journey from Egypt to Europe. But when he saw men with bushy long beards at a mosque near his current home in Cologne last November, he was worried.
The men's appearance reminded him of Jaish al-Islam, the Islamist rebels who took over his hometown near Damascus, said Salam, 36, who wears a mustache but no beard. One of them told Salam that "good Muslims grow beards, not moustaches," he recalled – a centuries-old idea that he dismisses.
"Everything about this mosque made me feel uneasy," he said.
Syrians in Germany say many of the country's Arab mosques are more conservative than those at home.
Over two months, a dozen Syrians in six places of worship in three cities told Reuters they were uncomfortable with very conservative messages in Arabic-speaking mosques. People have criticized the way the newcomers dress and practice their religion, they said. Some insisted the Koran be interpreted word-for-word.
It is a highly contentious issue in a country where Europe's migrant influx is already having deep political and social consequences. In Germany this year Alternative for Germany, a populist party that says Islam is incompatible with the German constitution, has gained ground. There have been several attacks by militant Muslims. Syrians and others say the mosque problem is adding to mistrust.
In Germany, other different faiths are traditionally supported by the state. But most of the country's four million Muslims originally came from Turkey and attend Turkish-speaking mosques which are partly funded by Ankara.
Last year around 890,000 asylum-seekers, more than 70 percent of them Muslims, entered the country. Around a third came from Syria. Many of them do not want to go to Turkish mosques because they do not understand the sermons. They prefer to worship where people speak Arabic.‎
Yet in these mosques, other problems arise. They are often short of funds, or else supported by Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states. Some back ultra-conservative or highly literal interpretations of Islam, such as Wahhabism or Salafism.
"Unfortunately it is true that a large majority of Arabic-speaking mosques are more conservative than Turkish mosques," said Professor Mouhannad Khorchide, who heads the Centre for Islamic Theology at Muenster University. That poses problems for integrating those who are less conservative.
"How can one absorb these people if they are interested in their religion?" said Khorchide. "When there is a shortage of offers the Salafists try to fill the gap."
 
"PURE ISLAMIC TEACHINGS"
In Cologne, Salam said that 75 Syrians live in the same hotel as his family. Of them, only one veiled woman prays at the nearest Arabic mosque.
"One time when I was there, a Salafist asked a young Arab man to leave because he was wearing shorts," he added. "At the Turkish mosque no one cares what you're wearing."
In a windowless ground floor room inside the Arabic mosque one Friday in August, some 200 men, including about two dozen with bushy beards and trimmed moustaches typical of ultra-Orthodox Muslims, crowded for prayers.
Afterwards, a worshipper scolded three Lebanese men for saluting him when he entered the mosque. They had interrupted the sermon, which he said was forbidden. "Your Friday is gone!" he told them, lifting his hands toward his face and pressing his fingers together to emphasize that their actions had made their prayers void.
The imam who led the prayers said the community is not political or violent. Asked about the Syrians who felt uncomfortable at mosques like his, he said: "It's an honor to be called a Salafist. We are only interested in giving members of our community pure Islamic teachings."
Even though Salam can't understand the sermons in Turkish, he said he has started going to a Turkish mosque instead.
 
"BRAINWASHED"
A 2008 survey of Muslims and Christians in Europe by the state-funded WZB Berlin Social Science Centre found fundamentalist attitudes were less prevalent among German Muslims than elsewhere in Europe, but still quite widespread: For example, nearly half the Muslims it surveyed in Germany felt religious law to be more important than secular law.
Germany's domestic intelligence agency has recorded more than 320 attempts by Salafist Muslims to contact refugees last year, often by offering food, clothes, free copies of the Koran and help with German to asylum seekers living in shelters.
Earlier this month, a Syrian committed suicide in prison after he was arrested on suspicion of planning to bomb an airport. His brother and friends in Germany have said he was "brainwashed" by ultra-conservative imams in Berlin.
The intelligence agency has advised local authorities against housing asylum-seekers near Salafist or Wahhabi mosques.
"We know of at least 90 Islamist mosques where activities aimed at refugees are taking place. These mosques are largely Arab-dominated and influenced by Salafism," said Hans-Georg Maassen, head of the agency.
At the al-Nur mosque in Berlin, which is run by Wahhabis, Syrian Abed al-Hafian said he was alarmed by a strict interpretation of the Koran and Hadith, a collection of sayings of the prophet. He recalled a sentence from Hadith that the preacher quoted on his first Friday: 'Every novelty (in religion) is innovation, and every innovation is misguidance, and every misguidance leads to the hellfire.'
"I had never heard that sentence in Syria," said the 42-year-old father of three, who arrived in 2014. "The message is clear and is directed at us Muslims: 'Don't you dare interpret your religion. Take the Koran word for word.' It's a problem."
He said he decided to take what he wants from the sermons and "ignore the rest."
Even though officials accept that not all Salafists are violent, some Syrians worry that if they go to Arabic-speaking mosques, they may be seen as radicals.
In Hamburg, Syrian Kurd Abu Mohammad said he has avoided going to a mosque since he arrived in Germany two years ago because his parents, who came here a decade ago, told him it could only bring trouble.
"The government is obviously monitoring  Salafists," said the 32-year-old father of six, using a nickname because he said he fears for his safety and that of relatives still living in Damascus. 
"I have a two-year visa and the last thing I want is trouble."
 
FUNDING GAP
The problem may be rooted in the schisms in Islam, but it is made worse by the structure of religious funding in Germany. Since the start of the 20th century Germany has had a system of collecting taxes for worship, which are then paid out to religious groups like Catholics, Protestants and Jews.
Muslims cannot benefit from this, because the four main organizations that represent Muslims in Germany can't agree to merge into one religious body, a requirement to receive taxes.
"Most communities can't even afford a proper mosque ... And most can't pay a well-educated imam to serve their community," said Daniel Abdin, co-chairman of the Shura Council in Hamburg, an umbrella organization for the city's Muslim community.
"So you end up with a situation where people with little or no knowledge of modern theology are serving as imams."
Five years ago, the government set up five Islamic theology centers to train imams and Islamic educators with a 20-million-euro ($22 million) grant from the Education Ministry. The strategy has been partly successful: Islamic studies are taught to Muslim pupils in many schools.
But few of the more than 1,800 students who have graduated from the theology centers have gone on to serve as local imams.
Nonetheless, Khorchide and other Islam experts are hopeful that the influx of Muslim asylum-seekers with an open approach to religion is an opportunity to promote a more "moderate" Islam in the Arabic-speaking mosques.
In Hamburg, Abu Mohammad says he has stopped attending mosque at all. 
"I pray at home," he said. "I'm sure Allah listens."
 
 
BRASILIA The president of Brazil's Senate urged the Supreme Court on Wednesday to halt an investigation into the use of Senate police to protect senators from a corruption probe, stoking tensions between the judiciary and the legislative branch.
The row threatens to cast a shadow over Brazilian President Michel Temer's efforts to push through legislative reforms to restore fiscal discipline to Brazil's overdrawn budget accounts.
Senate President Renan Calheiros, who faces several corruption investigations, filed an injunction requesting that the Supreme Court respect boundaries between the different branches of government and stop an operation that "invaded" the jurisdiction of the Senate.
The injunction requests the suspension of the police operation and the immediate return of the equipment seized from Senate police that was used to sweep the homes of senators to see if they were bugged, according to a copy provided by Calheiros' office.
The dispute erupted last Friday when federal police arrested the head of the Senate police force for counter-intelligence efforts to protect senators implicated in a sprawling graft scandal, mostly by sweeping their homes for bugs.
Calheiros then blasted the lower court judge who issued the arrest warrant. In an apparent response, Supreme Court Chief Justice Carmen Lucia Rocha rebuffed the senator, declaring that any attack on a judge was an attack on her.
Calheiros has also criticized Temer's justice minister, who is responsible for law enforcement and the federal police, for allowing the operation that seized counter-espionage equipment from Senate police offices.
Senate policemen detained in the operation told investigators they were ordered to sweep the homes of three senators and a former president of Brazil, who are under investigation in the sprawling graft scandal centered on state-controlled oil company Petrobras.
The Temer administration is worried that the dispute will spill over onto the Senate floor and upset the passage of the spending ceiling that cleared the lower house by a comfortable margin on Tuesday..
The constitutional amendment limits federal spending to the rate of inflation for up to 20 years, a measure to plug Brazil's widening budget deficits that have fueled inflation, expanded the public debt and cost the country its prized investment grade credit rating.
Temer attempted to calm tensions by inviting the heads of both chambers of Congress and Chief Justice Rocha to a meeting on Wednesday, but she refused to attend.
Calheiros said he would not let the dispute delay two rounds of voting on the spending cap set for Nov. 29 and Dec. 13.
"The voting dates will be maintained. I will not give in to any pressure to change the timetable of such an important measure for Brazil due to difficult political circumstances," he told reporters.
Calheiros has been accused of receiving bribes by defendants in the Petrobras investigation. He denies any wrongdoing.
He is also being investigated for having a private company pay child support for a daughter he had out of wedlock with a journalist, a scandal that forced him to resign as head of the Senate in 2007 and is now being taken up by the Supreme court.

BEIRUT Air strikes by Syrian or Russian warplanes on Wednesday killed at least 26 people, most of them schoolchildren, in a village in Syria's rebel-held Idlib province, rescue workers and a monitoring group said.
The raids hit a residential area and a school in Haas village, the Syrian Civil Defence rescue workers' network said on its Facebook account.
Syria's civil war pits President Bashar al-Assad, backed by Russia, Iran and Shi'ite Muslim militias from Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan against an array of mostly Sunni Muslim rebel groups, including some backed by Turkey, Gulf monarchies and the United States.
A report on Syrian state TV quoted a military source as saying a number of militants had been killed when their positions were targeted in Haas, but made no mention of a school.
Russia's Ambassador to the United Nations Vitaly Churkin said: "It's horrible, I hope we were not involved. It's the easiest thing for me to say no, but I'm a responsible person, so I need to see what my Ministry of Defence is going to say."
Anthony Lake, the head of the U.N. children's agency UNICEF, said of the attack: "If deliberate, it is a war crime."
"This latest atrocity may be the deadliest attack on a school since the war began more than five years ago," Lake said in a statement.
Idlib, which is in northwest Syria near Aleppo, contains the largest populated area controlled by rebels - both nationalist groups under the banner of the Free Syrian Army and Islamist fighters including the former al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat Fateh al-Sham.
The Civil Defence network, which operates in rebel-held areas in the country, said 20 of the dead in Wednesday's attacks were children.
Photos taken at the scene showed buildings with walls reduced to rubble, including what appeared to be the school with upturned desks and chairs covered in dust.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British-based war monitor, said the warplanes had struck several locations in Haas including an elementary and middle school, killing at least one teacher as well as children, though it gave a lower toll of 15 children killed.
Western countries and international human rights groups have regularly highlighted the high number of civilian deaths reported after Syrian and Russian air strikes.

TRIPOLI More than 90 migrants are believed missing after their boat sank off the coast of western Libya on Wednesday, a coastguard spokesman said.
Ayoub Qassem said coastguards had rescued 29 migrants some 26 miles off the shore east of Tripoli, and that survivors said 126 people had been on the rubber boat before one of the sides was ripped and it started taking on water.
Libya is the main departure point for mostly African migrants seeking to cross the Mediterranean to Europe. Smugglers arrange ill-equipped and overcrowded vessels that frequently break down or sink.
Qassem said the boat that sank on Wednesday had left at dawn from Garabulli, about 50km (31 miles) east of Tripoli.
"Because of overcrowding one of the sides of the boat got torn and water leaked in," he said. "Ninety-seven illegal migrants are still missing or they have drowned."
The rate of recorded deaths in the Mediterranean has risen sharply this year, with more than 3,740 migrants drowning on their way to Europe. That nearly matches the toll for the whole of 2015.
The route between Libya and Italy has become the busiest crossing point after a deal between Turkey and the European Union in March largely closed off pathways to Greece.
Smugglers in Libya act with impunity, taking advantage of a security vacuum that developed amid the political chaos following the country's 2011 uprising.
They often send migrants with just enough fuel to reach international waters and be picked up by international rescue vessels.
On Tuesday aid group Doctors Without Borders found 25 dead  migrants submerged in water and fuel at the bottom of another rubber boat off Libya.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Men turned it to ruins. Now women aim to help restore Afghanistan's iconic Darul Aman Palace to its former glory.
Long a symbol of the country's decades of war, the abandoned palace in Kabul - bombed-out and bullet-scarred - is to be rebuilt under an ambitious government plan, and women make up a quarter of the workforce.
That's more than symbolic in a country where opportunities for women to develop careers are severely limited.
"Our participation in this important project breaks the taboo that considers women to be too weak to work on construction projects," Zahra Jafari, a female electrical engineer, told Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone.
"It's a huge responsibility on each and every one of us. We strive for excellence and work hard to achieve success beyond expectation. And we want to prove that women are capable of implementing national projects."
The palace's reconstruction was launched by President Ashraf Ghani in May and the government hopes the site, next to a new, Indian-financed parliament, can become the center of a new government quarter as well as a tourist attraction.
Wearing standard-issue hard hats, 20 women work alongside 60 male colleagues in the skeleton of the European-style edifice that was built in the 1920s by former King Amanullah Khan just outside the capital.
The building was destroyed in the civil wars of the 1990s, when fighting between rival militias killed thousands in Kabul.
"We selected the engineers by only considering their expertise and experience," Sayed Zia Hussaini, senior advisor to the Minister of Urban Development and supervisor of the project, said by phone.
"It was a transparent process and women engineers went through the same selection process as their male counterparts."
Hussaini added that although women made up just 25 percent of the engineers, they were doing 40 percent of the reconstruction work, which will cost $20 million over three to five years.
In traditional Afghan society, it is unusual for women to work outside the home. Instead, they are mostly employed as teachers, nurses, doctors and midwives.
In the late 1990s when the Taliban controlled Afghanistan, women were banned from attending school and even going shopping without a male companion.
After the collapse of the Taliban, women regained some freedom to work outside the home - but many consider working on construction sites a step too far.
Not so Zahra Jafari, who studied electrical engineering at Kabul University.
"By working on this project, we are contributing to the reconstruction of our country and empowering women," she said. "I hope it changes the views of the outside world about Afghan women too."

NEW YORK A New York lawyer has been criminally charged with failing to report to the Internal Revenue Service more than $3 million of fee income from tax shelter and other transactions he handled at the law firm Herrick Feinstein, where he led the tax practice.
According to an indictment made public on Wednesday, Harold Levine diverted the money from Herrick Feinstein with the help of Ronald Katz, a certified public accountant who hid from the IRS more than $1.2 million he received for his involvement.
The scheme began in 2004 and lasted roughly a decade, and included the use of limited liability companies controlled by Levine, Katz or both, according to the indictment.
Levine, 58, was charged with eight counts including tax evasion, wire fraud, making false statements to the IRS, obstruction and conspiracy, according to the indictment and prosecutors.
"It is our intention to fight these charges and we're confident that Harold will be fully exonerated," Marc Mukasey, a lawyer for Levine, said in an email.
Katz, 59, was charged with obstruction and conspiracy.
His lawyer, James Froccaro, in a phone interview said Katz "maintains his innocence."
In June 2014, the government filed a civil lawsuit accusing Levine of cheating the IRS out of more than $129 million by participating in roughly 90 illegal tax schemes, resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars of improper deductions.
That case was put on hold in July 2015.
Levine left Herrick Feinstein in 2012 to take over the tax practice of another law firm, Moritt Hock & Hamroff. A spokesman for that firm said Levine departed voluntarily in June 2016 to take a position with one of his clients.

UNITED NATIONS United Nations aid chief Stephen O'Brien told the Security Council on Wednesday that the "buck stops with you" when it comes to ending the nearly six year war in Syria and he is "incandescent with rage" that no action is being taken to do so.
O'Brien's monthly briefing to the 15-member council on the humanitarian aid situation in Syria sparked an angry exchange, pitting Russia against the United States, Britain and France.
"I call upon all council members who have operational military assets in Syria to take concrete steps to halt the aerial bombardment of civilian areas," said O'Brien, specifically slamming the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russia for bombing the city of Aleppo.
Russia and China have protected Syria's government from Security Council action to try and stop the war, including vetoing a bid to refer the situation to the International Criminal Court. Russia has blocked five council resolutions.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who steps down at the end of the year after serving two five year terms, told Reuters on Friday that he deeply regrets the Syrian conflict has not been resolved.
"Aleppo has essentially become a kill zone," O'Brien told the 15-member body, adding that no U.N. aid had reached eastern Aleppo for four months. "Civilians are being bombed by Syrian and Russian forces, and if they survive that, they will starve tomorrow. The tactics are as obvious as they are unconscionable."
Aleppo, Syria's most populous city before the war erupted, is now divided into government- and rebel-held areas. Intense bombardment by Syrian and Russian warplanes has reduced the rebel-controlled east to ruins. Russia said on Tuesday it would extend a moratorium on air strikes on Aleppo into a ninth day.
Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin hit back at O'Brien, describing his remarks as "arrogant" and criticizing him for not talking about Russia's halt to air strikes in Aleppo.
"If we needed to be preached to we would go to a church," Churkin said. "Please leave this kind of a report for a novel you might write one day."
He also denied that Russian planes had dropped leaflets on eastern Aleppo - cited in the council by O'Brien and U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power - that warned people to leave or "you will be annihilated."
O'Brien responded: "Don't shoot the messenger." Several council members, including the United States, France and Britain, also jumped to the defense of O'Brien.
"What Russia really wants from the U.N. is credit," Power told the council. "You don't get congratulations and get credit for not committing war crimes for a day or a week."
Syria's war pits Assad, backed by Russia, Iran and Shi'ite Muslim militias from Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan against mostly Sunni Muslim rebel groups including some backed by Turkey, Gulf monarchies and the United States.
"I cannot help but be incandescent with rage. Month after month, worse and worse, and nothing is actually happening to stop the war, stop the suffering," O'Brien told the council.
"If you don't take action, there will be no Syrian peoples or Syria to save – that will be this council's legacy, our generation's shame," O'Brien said.

UNITED NATIONS The United States on Wednesday abstained for the first time from a United Nations General Assembly vote on a resolution calling for an end to a U.S. economic embargo on Cuba, after opposing such measures every year for 24 years.
For the 25th time, the 193-member General Assembly adopted the resolution with 191 votes in favor. Israel, which opposed the resolution last year, also abstained on Wednesday. Such resolutions are non-binding, but can carry political weight.
Communist-run Cuba and the United States, former Cold War foes, began normalizing relations in 2014. U.S. President Barack Obama has taken steps to ease trade and travel restrictions on Cuba, but only the U.S. Congress can lift the full embargo.
The Republican-controlled Congress has resisted Obama's call to lift Washington's economic embargo after more than 50 years. Republican critics say Obama is making too many concessions to Cuba for too little in return, especially on human rights.
The U.N. General Assembly applauded when U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power announced prior to the vote that the United States would abstain.
"Abstaining on this resolution does not mean that the United States agrees with all of the policies and practices of the Cuban government. We do not," Power told the General Assembly.
"We are profoundly concerned by the serious human rights violations that the Cuban government continues to commit with impunity against its own people," she said.
Cuba's Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez described the abstention as a "positive step for the future of improving relations between the United States and Cuba."
Rodriguez said in September that damage from U.S. sanctions between April 2015 and March 2016 amounted to $4.6 billion and to $125.9 billion since the embargo's inception more than 50 years ago.
In March, Obama made the first visit to Havana by a U.S. president in 88 years. His trip was made possible by his breakthrough agreement with Cuban President Raul Castro in December 2014 to cast aside decades of hostility that began soon after Cuba's 1959 revolution.
Since the opening, Obama has repeatedly used his executive powers to relax trade and travel restrictions, while pushing Cuba to accelerate market-style reforms and boost political and economic freedoms.
The U.N. resolution adopted on Wednesday takes note of the steps taken by Obama as positive but "still limited in scope." It urges the United States to repeal or invalidate the embargo on Cuba as soon as possible.

WASHINGTON/BERLIN The United States has begun using a Tunisian air base to conduct surveillance drone operations inside Libya, the latest expansion of its campaign against Islamic State militants in North Africa, U.S. government sources said on Wednesday.
The unarmed drones have been flying out of Tunisia since late June and are now part of a U.S. air defense in support of Libyan pro-government forces fighting to push Islamic State fighters out of their stronghold in the Libyan city of Sirte, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The use of the Tunisian base, which was first reported by The Washington Post, extends the U.S. military's ability to gather intelligence on Islamic State in Libya, the U.S. sources said. Other locations in Africa where U.S. drones are launched, including Niger and Djibouti, are farther away.
In Tunis, a Tunisian defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, denied that the drones were flying into neighboring Libya and said they were instead used for training Tunisian forces and protecting the country's borders.
U.S. officials said the Air Force Reaper drones were being operated by U.S. personnel with Tunisian government approval from an existing base operated by Tunisia's military and were currently used only for surveillance. But such unmanned aircraft are also capable of being armed.
"There are U.S. service members working with the Tunisian security forces for counter terrorism and they are sharing intelligence from various sources, to include aerial platforms," said U.S. Army Colonel Mark Cheadle, spokesman for U.S. Africa Command.
Tunisia, a close U.S. counterterrorism partner, requested additional military equipment and training from Washington after deadly militant attacks last year and has been given more than $250 million in security assistance, Cheadle said.
Tunisian Defense Minister Farhat Horchani was cited by state news agency TAP as saying that Tunis has recently received reconnaissance planes and unmanned drone systems" for training and to "monitor the southern borders and detect any suspicious movements."
He said the presence of foreign troops in Tunis was in the context of "international military cooperation" on mutual interests.
Forces aligned with Libya's U.N.-backed Government of National Accord have been fighting for months to liberate Sirte from Islamic State, which took over the city amid factional infighting that emerged after the fall of Libyan strongman Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.
The pro-government forces have been bolstered by U.S. air strikes since August and coordination with small teams of Western special forces on the ground.

ERBIL, Iraq Islamic State militants have in recent days executed dozens of prisoners taken from villages the group has been forced to abandon by an Iraqi army advance on the city of Mosul,  officials in the region said on Wednesday.
Most of those killed were former members of the Iraqi police and army who had lived in areas under Islamic State control south of Mosul, Abdul Rahman al-Waggaa, a member of the Nineveh provincial council, told Reuters.
The militants forced them to leave their homes with their families, and took them to the town of Hammam Al-Alil, 15 km (9 miles) south of Mosul, where the executions took place, he said in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdish region, east of Mosul.
The men were shot dead, he said, quoting the testimony of remaining residents of the villages and people displaced from the area.
The executions were meant "to terrorize the others, those who are in Mosul in particular", and also to get rid of the prisoners, he said.
"Daesh (Islamic State) was taking families from each village it left," said Waggaa.
Separately, Hoshiyar Zebari, an influential Kurdish politician, told Reuters in Erbil that at least 65 people had been executed by Islamic State south of Mosul three days ago.

REVOLT
The militants started rounding up hostages in the villages of Al-Hudd and Al-Lazzaga, after a revolt broke out against them a week ago to aid the army's advance, said Zebari, a former Iraqi finance minister and foreign minister.
More than 20 were put to death as punishment in two villages located just north of the town of Qayyara, he said.
Families of the executed hostages are being held in Hammam al-Alil or in Mosul, he said.
U.N. human rights spokesman Rupert Colville on Tuesday said Islamic State fighters had reportedly killed scores of people around Mosul in the last week.
Colville said security forces discovered the bodies of 70 civilians in houses in Tuloul Naser village south of Mosul last Thursday.
Islamic State also reportedly killed 50 former police officers outside Mosul on Sunday, he said.
Iraqi army and Kurdish Peshmerga forces on Oct. 17 launched an offensive on Mosul, Islamic State's last major city stronghold in Iraq.

BRUSSELS Belgian talks designed to end the deadlock over a planned EU-Canada free trade agreement ended on Wednesday without a breakthrough, but participants said they would resume on Thursday morning.
Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel worked with the heads of Belgium's regions and linguistic communities to produce a common text to allay their concerns.
"We made a lot of progress, but we are not there yet. We will continue tomorrow, but we are close to an agreement," said Oliver Paasch, the head of Belgium's 76,000-strong German-speaking community.

CALAIS, France French authorities said on Wednesday they had finished clearing the "Jungle", a shanty town outside Calais built by migrants who had hoped to cross to Britain but who are now mostly being dispersed around France.
The operation passed off peacefully for the most part, though some migrants torched tents and shelters in a last act of defiance as their hopes of a new life in Britain evaporated.
"This is the end of the 'Jungle'," Calais regional prefect Fabienne Buccio said. "Mission accomplished."
A total of 5,596 adults and children have been brought from the cold and damp of the Jungle for resettlement, the interior and housing ministries said in a joint statement.
That figure includes 234 minors taken to the United Kingdom since last week, the ministries said. The transit center on site remained open on Wednesday night for migrants wishing to be resettled in one of 450 reception centers scattered across France.
Earlier in the day, riot police spread out around the camp, and fire trucks moved in to put out blazes that sent plumes of smoke into the sky.
Migrants fleeing poverty and war in the Middle East, Asia and Africa had gathered in Calais hoping to cross the short stretch of sea to Britain by leaping on trucks and trains, or even walking through the tunnel under the Channel.
Britain refused to accept the vast majority. High fences were built to keep them away from the port traffic, but still they came.
Local opposition to the sprawling slum, along with growing criticism from right-wing politicians, finally stung the French government into action.

IMMIGRATION AND BREXIT
"We need to be vigilant and provide guarantees so that the camp does not reappear," Calais Mayor Natacha Bouchart told journalists at the Jungle camp entrance, according to French radio Europe 1.
The numbers of irregular migrants reaching Europe are sharply down on the 1.3 million who arrived in 2015. But more than 300,000 have made the hazardous Mediterranean crossing in 2016 so far, and many are likely to head for Britain.
The British referendum vote this year to quit the European Union was in large part driven by worries over immigration, and stoked by scenes of the Calais migrants trying to force their way in.
Now that Britain is leaving the EU, right-wing French politicians want to tear up the agreement under which Britain's border controls are conducted in France.
Many arriving in Europe see Britain as their best hope of making a new life due to its plentiful jobs and English language.
Hamid, 30, from Afghanistan, said he had been among those setting fire to shelters in the Jungle, and still hoped to cross the Channel to Britain.
"We don't care about problems that are to come after this. We did it because we don't want to stay in France," he said.
"We want to go to England and England only. It doesn't matter if I go to jail here."
France has repeatedly urged Britain to take in all the unaccompanied minors at the camp, while Britain has said it expects to accept about half of them.

MADRID Spain's acting Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy urged parliament on Wednesday to back his bid to form a minority government and end 10 months of political paralysis, offering to work with his opponents on major challenges like pension and education reform.
Rajoy's conservative People's Party won two elections in December and June but failed to secure a majority and attempts to put together a viable coalition government have failed.
But the Socialists, who previously voted against a Rajoy-led government, switched position last Sunday by announcing they would abstain in the next confidence vote, paving the way for Rajoy to stay in power.
Rajoy knows he will need the support of opposition parties to push through legislation and the Socialists warned him on Tuesday that they would not approve any budgets proposed by a Rajoy-led government.
Rajoy adopted a more conciliatory pose than usual as he kicked off a debate seeking parliament's approval to form a new government.
"The exceptional circumstances demand that we put aside ideological confrontations and combine our efforts, exceptionally, because we are dealing with an unheard-of situation," Rajoy said.
The alternative to backing him, Rajoy warned, would be a third national election in a year, a prospect he said would be damaging for Spain and its economy, which is recovering from a severe recession.

"OPEN TO DIALOGUE"
"I take it for granted that every day we will have to build a majority to govern the country. For that, we need a government that is open to dialogue. That is what I offer. I am ready to negotiate all decisions as much as is necessary," he said.
Rajoy invited all parties to work together to tackle pressing national issues such as the sustainability of Spain's public pension system, reforming the education system and overhauling the financing of Spain's 17 autonomous regions, which regularly overspend.
Spain is also under pressure to present a new budget plan for 2017 to Brussels to guarantee it can meet public deficit targets for next year, and Rajoy said his government planned to present a new public spending limit to parliament in the coming days.
Rajoy said he was open to dialogue with the Catalan government but implicitly rejected moves by Catalans to hold an independence referendum from Spain next year, saying the Spanish people as a whole were the only ones who could decide on the future of their territory.
Opposition leaders will respond to Rajoy's speech on Thursday before a vote in which Rajoy needs backing from an absolute majority of deputies to stay in power, a threshold he is unlikely to reach.
Failing that, a second vote would be called 48 hours later in which he simply needs more votes in favor than against, meaning abstentions can make a difference.

SOUTH OF MOSUL, Iraq The Iraqi policeman wept beside his convoy, stopped in a village near the front line.
For two years he had prayed he would again see the family he had left behind when his village near Mosul was overrun by Islamic State while he was off on deployment. Now, as a member of the national police force, he was personally participating in the assault to repel the fighters from the area.
Last week he learned from other advancing Iraqi forces who reached his home village that they had arrived too late to protect his family. Fleeing militants had taken them hostage and were bringing them deeper towards Mosul to use as human shields.
“I can’t describe the feeling,” said the policeman with a neatly trimmed moustache, his voice breaking. He asked that his name and village not be identified to protect the family members still in the hands of the fighters.
“I’m afraid they will keep pulling them back from village to village until they get to Mosul. And then they will disappear.”
As Iraqi forces have pressed forward in the assault of Islamic State's last major stronghold in the country, they have encountered mounting evidence that the fighters are taking civilians to use as human shields.
“Daesh tried to take us as human shields but we escaped,” said Mahmoud Ali Khalaf, 41, in Nana, a village the fighters had abandoned as they fled towards front lines now located a 20 minute drive away. “They were taking us to Mosul as protection for them.”
Khalaf’s brother was shot and killed by Islamic State when he tried to escape last Friday, Khalaf said.
The battle for Mosul, mounted by 50,000 government troops, Kurdish fighters, police and volunteers, is expected to be the biggest ground assault in Iraq since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.
The United Nations says as many as 1 million people could be suddenly uprooted, requiring the world's largest humanitarian relief operation.
The U.N. human rights office said on Tuesday it had preliminary reports about scores of killings by Islamic State around Mosul in the past week, as well as new information reinforcing the belief that fighters were holding people as human shields.

STRONGER THAN WHAT WE SEE
It is a tactic Islamic State fighters have used repeatedly in other smaller battles, and which could take place on an unprecedented scale in Mosul, a city many times larger than any other the militants have held.
Outside the village of Saf al-Tuth, Major General Najm al Jabouri directed heavy machinegun fire at a sparse concrete building on a ridge where his men believed a sniper was hunkered down. Volleys of rockets flew over the ridge with a whoosh and pounded the village itself with loud booms.
The fight so far has not been as difficult as anticipated, according to Jabouri, commander of Mosul operations for the Iraqi army. But he believes worse is still to come, as government forces bear down on Mosul itself.
"We expect they are stronger than what we see,” Jabouri said on Tuesday evening.
Since the operation began on October 17th, Jabouri’s forces have managed to retake around 35 kilometers of territory back from Islamic State. But although the enemy has not halted the advance, fighters have shown that they can still pose a deadly threat: Jabouri's soldiers have destroyed at least 95 car bombs.
One of the worst fears of the United Nations is that retreating fighters could attempt to use crude chemical weapons.
Khalaf, the man who escaped Islamic State, lives directly next to a sulfur plant which Islamic State fighters set ablaze before they retreated. His children have all developed respiratory problems from the toxic smoke. One of his sons wore a surgical mask on Wednesday for protection from the fumes.
Islamic State fighters kept up their fierce defense of the southern approaches to Mosul on Wednesday, holding up Iraqi troops there and forcing an elite army unit east of the city to put its more rapid advance on hold.
Jabouri, the commander, was not overly concerned about the fighting ahead but fretted about the plight of civilians caught up in the battle.
CATANIA, Italy Some 729 migrants rescued from boats in the Mediterranean were taken to port in Sicily's Catania on Wednesday, along with the bodies of nine others killed trying to reach Italy.
The Italian Coast Guard said it coordinated more than 6,000 sea rescues from Friday to Sunday, bringing arrivals so far this year to almost 155,000, with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi saying on Tuesday the country cannot handle the same number next year.
More than 3,500 people have died or disappeared trying to cross the Mediterranean from North Africa this year, the International Organisation for Migration estimates.

LONDON Britain cannot have it all as it exits the European Union and cannot leave behind the bloc's problems while benefiting from its advantages, French agriculture minister Stephane Le Foll said on Wednesday.
"You cannot say when exiting the EU you will keep all the advantages but leave behind anything that doesn't suit you," Le Foll said at a briefing in London before a bilateral meeting with his British counterpart Andrea Leadsom.
"It's a choice which results in losing certain advantages which could be taken for granted," said Le Foll, who is also the spokesman for France's Socialist government.
The EU's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) regulates farm policy across the bloc, providing subsidies to farmers in member states - including Britain - that contribute to its budget.
Britain's vote to leave the European Union spells uncertainty not only for British farmers as subsidies dry up, but also for the CAP's budget because of the looming end to Britain's contributions. Britain's National Farming Union supported Britain remaining in the EU.
Le Foll, who was a vocal opponent of Brexit prior to the referendum, emphasised the importance of continued cooperation with Britain on agricultural issues as well as security, alluding to the problem of migrants who flocked to Calais in the hope of crossing the Channel to Britain.
"We have agricultural and agroindustrial relations around which we must, of course, continue to share and discuss," he said.
"The question of Calais must compel us to continue relations that are productive enough to  be able to solve the problems concerning both France and Great Britain," he added.
Le Foll said he would not speak to Leadsom about the CAP, which is to be debated ahead of new guidelines in 2020.
He said Britain's exit should precede the new agricultural policy, citing French President Francois Hollande's demand that the formal exit occur before the EU elections in 2019.
The French minister hosted 19 other European agriculture ministers in France's Loire valley in September to discuss the future of the CAP after Brexit, pointedly not inviting Britain.
Prime Minister Theresa May, at her first European Council meeting in Brussels, said Britain would continue to play a full role in  the EU until it leaves, and would be a strong and dependable partner after it left.

MOGADISHU A group loyal to Islamic State seized the small port town of Qandala in Somalia's semi-autonomous Puntland region on Wednesday, the first town it has taken since emerging a year ago, officials said.
The group, which refers to itself simply as Islamic State, is a rival to the larger al Shabaab force, which is linked to Islamic State's rival al Qaeda and once controlled much of Somalia.
"Our soldiers were few and so could not fight longer," district commissioner Jamac Mohamed Khuurshe said. African peacekeepers are not deployed in Puntland, which lies at the eastern tip of the Horn of Africa.
Soldiers and many residents fled and the militants cut off Qandala's communications, Khuurshe said.
Earlier on Wednesday, al Shabaab seized a town in southern Somalia after African and Somali government troops withdrew, part of an ongoing back and forth in the region.
Islamic State has been gathering recruits in Puntland, although experts say the scale of its force is unclear and it remains a small player compared to al Shabaab.
Before Qandala's phone lines were cut off, fisherman Abdirahman Hussein told Reuters: "We just saw Daesh (Islamic State) with their black banner as we were fishing. They said to us: 'Don't panic, we will rule you according to the Islamic sharia (law)'."
Major Saiid Ali, a Puntland police officer, said the group had previously entered two small villages before retreating to hideouts in the Puntland hills, but had never before seized a town.
The Puntland Islamist group first announced its alignment to Islamic State a year ago in a statement on YouTube.
The group is led by Abdiqadir Mumin, a former al Shabaab commander, a sign that some al Shabaab fighters see al Qaeda as a spent force and have been inspired by Islamic State's campaign in Iraq and Syria.
Several groups beyond Islamic State's Middle East heartland have made similar declarations of allegiance, although experts say these links are unlikely to go much beyond ideological sympathies.
Al Shabaab has yet to make any comment on the Puntland group.
Separately, al Shabaab said it was behind the killing of a 60-year-old colonel, Siyad Mohamed, in Mogadishu late on Wednesday, following the assassination of an intelligence officer in the capital on Monday.
Al Shabaab's seizure of Tiyeeglow in southern Somalia on Wednesday gave it back control of an area over which it has long fought with the African Union's AMISOM force and Somali soldiers.
Ethiopian government spokesman Getachew Reda said the Ethiopian troops that withdrew were not part of Ethiopia's AMISOM contingent, and that any redeployment was done in consultation with Somali troops.

ROME The case of Italian student Giulio Regeni, who was murdered in Egypt in February, is an "open wound" for Italy, Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said on Wednesday.
Regeni, 28, had been studying in Cairo when he disappeared in late January. His body was found on the side of a road in the outskirts of the city a week later, showing signs of torture.
Italian and Egyptian prosecutors have met several times to exchange information relating to their investigations, and made a joint statement in September declaring a "common commitment" to bring to light what happened.
But Gentiloni said Italy was "not satisfied" with the outcome of the meetings.
"We got a few hopeful signals in September from the Egyptian judicial authorities, and the Rome prosecutor interpreted that as some willingness to collaborate," the minister said during a meeting with students at Rome's LUISS University.
The minister added it was "not by chance" that Rome had recalled its ambassador from Cairo in April.

VATICAN CITY Father Ernest Simoni, a 88-year-old Albanian, was watching Pope Francis on television this month when, to his astonishment, he heard the pontiff mention his name.
Francis announced that the simple, white-haired Roman Catholic priest, who had spent many years in jail during Albania's communist dictatorship, was to become a cardinal.
It was the first that Simoni, or any of the other 16 new cardinals named by Francis at the same time, had heard of their elevation to the prestigious rank.
"I did not believe either my ears or eyes," Simoni told Reuters in Albania. "The pope said it, but I could not believe it. 'Can he be talking about another Ernest?' I said to myself."
But more significantly, the pope had also kept nearly the entire Vatican hierarchy in the dark about his decision, which he announced on Oct. 9 to thousands of pilgrims.
The episode illustrates how Francis has used his own distinct management style to try to shake up the Church since his election in 2013. He is keeping his cards close to his chest as he tries to push through a progressive agenda to make the Church more welcoming in the face of conservative opposition.
Interviews with a dozen current and past Vatican officials and aides paint a portrait of Pope Francis, a Jesuit who turns 80 in December, as eschewing filters between him and the outside world. He carries his own black briefcase, keeps his own agenda, and makes many of his own calls.
In contrast, his two immediate predecessors, Benedict XVI and John Paul II, worked hand-in-hand with the Vatican bureaucracy, which is known as the curia.
Behind Francis's approach is a clear mandate, received from the worldwide cardinals who elected him in 2013, to overhaul the curia.
Over the decades the Vatican's administration has collected some of the Church's most orthodox officials, partly because of the lieutenants that Francis's two highly-conservative predecessors called to their entourages in Rome.
As a result, Francis believes that only by reducing the power of the curia – including surprising it on some decisions - can the 1.2 billion-member Church embrace those who have felt marginalized, such as gays and the divorced.
The approach has scored Francis some victories, such as bypassing conservative bishops to streamline the procedures by which Catholics can obtain marriage annulments.
There have also been setbacks, such as putting too much power in one cardinal's hands to resolve financial problems and later having to rein him in.
Some internal critics say he relies too much on snap judgments and others have urged greater transparency. They say  his decisions to set up new structures, such as an economy ministry and an external advisory council of eight cardinals from around the world, were divisive and that he could have enacted change by putting new people at the top of existing departments.

NO FILTERS
One of the most striking differences between Francis and his two predecessors is that it is virtually impossible to determine who, if anyone, is really close to him.
The personal secretaries of Benedict and John Paul - respectively Georg Ganswein, now an archbishop, and Stanislaw Dziwisz, now a cardinal - were always at their side and became celebrities in their own right, the powerful gate-keepers to  get to the pope.
By contrast, few people know the identities of Francis's two priest-secretaries - Father Fabian Pedacchio Leaniz from Argentina and Father Yoannis Lahzi Gaid, an Egyptian. Both have other part-time jobs in the Vatican and do not appear or travel with him.
"He does not want any filters," said a person who knows the pope well. "Sometimes he will tell one of his secretaries 'so-and-so is arriving in a few minutes' and that is the first they hear of it. Sometimes he tells one without telling the other."
This person, like most of the others interviewed for this article, has had direct dealings with Francis and all spoke on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to talk to the media.
This year, an Argentine visitor told a guard at a Vatican gate that the pope was expecting him. Phone calls had to be made to determine he was not a prankster. The pope had not told anyone he had invited the visitor.
One person close to the pope said he likes to manage this way because it gives him freedom to bypass rigid channels of communication and makes it impossible for anyone to become indispensable, as top aides of previous popes did.

JOYFUL DESTRUCTION
Francis likes to break rules and then change them once the shock has died down. Two weeks after his election, he included women in a liturgical service open only to men. Later, he ordered that the rules be formally changed worldwide.
Pope Benedict's sudden resignation in February 2013 brought to a climax one of the most turbulent periods in modern Vatican history, including the arrest of his butler for leaking documents that exposed corruption and cronyism.
Francis watched from afar as Benedict's papacy unraveled under the weight of successive scandals.
After he was elected, he appointed trusted people to lower or mid-level positions in Vatican departments, where they can be his eyes and ears. For example, Pedacchio, his Argentine secretary, also works in the department that decides who will become bishops.
Monsignor Battista Mario Salvatore Ricca, an Italian who runs the Vatican guest house where the pope lives, was given a position at the Vatican bank as the link man between a supervisory commission of cardinals and the board of directors.
"He is sometimes like the leader who says 'I don't care what the generals say, I will tell Lieutenant so-and-so to take that hill'," said a source, adding that the pope enjoyed rattling an inefficient bureaucracy with what the source described as "joyful destruction".

FIRST IMPRESSIONS
Several of those interviewed said Francis puts much stock in his immediate gut feelings about people. When he takes a liking to someone he can become blind to their faults and when he does not, it is hard to reverse that first impression, they said.
Francis was impressed by Cardinal George Pell of Sydney when he met the Australian in 2013. In meetings cardinals held among themselves before that year's conclave, the former Australian Rules football player stood out not only for his height and broad shoulders but also for his command of financial matters.
Months after his election, Francis, hoping to put an end to Vatican financial scandals, moved Pell to Rome to head a new ministry, the Secretariat for the Economy.
After initially giving him sweeping powers, the pope later significantly trimmed them back when other departments accused Pell of treating them in an overbearing way and of being condescending to the Italian-dominated curia.
Pell's position in the Vatican has also been weakened by allegations of sexual abuse when he was in Australia. Pell denies the allegations and the pope has said he will withhold judgment until an Australian investigation is over.
In another controversial appointment, Francis, acting on a recommendation, named Francesca Chaouqui, a 32-year-old Italian public relations expert, to a commission advising him on reform.  On July 8, 2016, a Vatican court convicted her of helping to leak embarrassing internal documents to journalists.
Insiders say the Pell and Chaouqui cases are examples of Francis making decisions too quickly.
Even though his health is good, they say he feels he has little time left and many things still to do; that perhaps explains the hastiness of some of his decisions.
Francis appears to enjoy sending signals that he alone is calling the shots.
When his predecessors spoke to the media on papal flights they were always flanked by the secretary of state or the deputy secretary of state. The stage management suggested that behind the man in white, there stood a centuries-old bureaucracy.
Under Francis, those prelates now stay out of sight in the front section of the plane.

PARIS The same first name and title seemed to be the most that embattled French President Francois Hollande had in common with Francois Mitterrand on Wednesday as he marked the 100th anniversary of his late predecessor's birth.
Mitterrand, who exercised iron-fist control over his party and government, finished his first term in 1988 with high popularity ratings thanks to landmark policies that pleased his voters. He was easily re-elected and served until 1995.
Hollande, by contrast, is the most unpopular leader in French polling history. As his first term nears its end next spring, even his closest allies openly criticize him and polls forecast that he has no chance of being re-elected.
The two are the only Socialist presidents elected during France's Fifth Republic, founded in 1958. But while Mitterrand made the French left electable, Hollande ends his five years in power with his party deeply unpopular and the left divided.
"Francois Mitterrand knew how to make leftwing voters' hearts race, while Francois Hollande doesn't," Jean-Daniel Levy of Harris Interactive pollsters said.
"When you asked the French in 1988 what they made of Mitterrand's mandate they would mention the end of the death penalty, the opening up of radio waves, the lowering of the retirement age. Despite the switch to austerity in 1983, there was a sense of pride," he said.
"Hollande does not manage to trigger that feeling of pride. Allowing gay marriage does not quite compare."
Polls show that many of those who voted Hollande into office in 2012 have been disappointed by the policies he pursued once he got there.
After declaring during his campaign that high finance was his enemy, Hollande brought in tax cuts for business in 2014. Later in his term, he backed a controversial labor reform.
In between, after two waves of bloody Islamist attacks in Paris, he embraced a right-wing proposal to strip foreign-born radicals of their French citizenship, only to drop the plan later as he could not get enough lawmakers to back it.
Two books this month underlined the contrast between the two men. The publication of Mitterrand's letters to his long-time mistress showed a man of complex passions and literary talent.
"A President Shouldn't Say That," a bombshell book based on Hollande's interviews with journalists from the daily Le Monde, had the president openly criticizing judges, football stars and even allies, prompting friendly fire from the Socialist ranks.
"At this stage no potential candidate, whoever he is, seems able to beat the right. Or even get past the first round," said Socialist Party secretary-general Jean-Christophe Cambadelis.
Only four percent of voters are satisfied with Hollande's record as president, an Ipsos-Cevipof poll on Tuesday showed.
Only nine percent of voters would back him in the first round of next year's presidential election, putting him behind left-wing firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon and his former economy minister Emmanuel Macron, a Kantar Sofres OnePoint poll showed.
Hollande, who seems to want to run, praised Mitterrand on Wednesday as "an exceptional Frenchman" who he said "never allowed himself to be discouraged, even when the obstacles seemed to have pushed him away from political life forever."
Likening himself to the late statesman Mitterrand will do little to help Hollande's chances, analysts said.
"Mitterrand always had people who stood up for him," Harris Interactive's Levy said. "No one is now clearly supporting Hollande, not even in his government."
One of Hollande's ministers, speaking on condition of anonymity, agreed: "Who's going to stick his neck out for him in the primaries? Who would exhaust themselves for him?"
Even Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, a staunch Hollande loyalist, responded to questions about Hollande's interview book by saying: "'A President Shouldn't Say That' - the answer's in the title."
Born Oct 26, 1916, Mitterrand died in January 1996, just months after leaving power. Conservative Jacques Chirac succeeded him as president, followed by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2007 and Hollande in 2012.
Today's Socialist Party is so divided that journalists have asked Segolene Royal - who is the current environment minister, the losing Socialist candidate in 2007 and Hollande's former partner in private life - if she were ready to run in 2017.
"It's a search for someone to sacrifice himself ... If it was winnable, no one would come asking me," she told the Journal du Dimanche newspaper.

HASSAN SHAM, Iraq White flags flying from their radio antennas, the pickup trucks laden with refugees and a few precious livestock snaked out of Tub Zawa after a day of heavy bombardment drove Islamic State fighters from the village on Mosul's eastern edge.
Around 700 people fled the village early on Tuesday, escaping the military operation to recapture Iraq's second biggest city from the jihadists who have controlled it for nearly two and a half years.
In the first 10 days of the Mosul campaign, the Iraqi army and Kurdish peshmerga fighters backed by U.S.-led air forces and troops have made steady gains through often depopulated villages east and south of Mosul.
But as they approach the city itself, still home to more than a million people, the advancing forces are pushing the frontlines into villages like Tub Zawa where residents had until this week stayed put.
That will make the fighting more difficult and deadly, and prompted a senior United Nations official in Iraq to say an exodus from Mosul, and a potential humanitarian crisis, could be only a few days away.
Tub Zawa, close to the main road into Mosul from the east, is one of the first populated villages reached by Iraqi counter-terrorism forces after they cleared Islamic State last week from a Christian region which has been largely empty since 2014.
Abdul Bassit, an elderly shepherd from the predominantly Sunni Arab settlement, said he had sheltered for hours with a dozen relatives under the stairs of their house on Monday while the military bombarded the village for hours with mortars and air strikes, and the jihadists responded with car bombs.
When they fled their homes the next day, they took only their most important possessions with them, which in many cases was livestock.
Women and small children shared space with sheep, goats, calves and chickens in the beds of pickup trucks on their journey to a camp for displaced people at the Kurdish-controlled town of Hassan Sham, further east.

SHAVING BEARDS
So far the number of people displaced since the Mosul campaign was formally launched on Oct. 17 is relatively modest - the International Organization for Migration says just over 10,000 people have been uprooted.
Those who head into Kurdish areas, like the Tub Zawa families, are checked by Kurdish peshmerga on the road linking Mosul to the Kurdish city of Erbil, about 75 km (45 miles) away.
On Tuesday, the villagers parked their cars and pickup trucks along the Erbil highway, as the peshmerga sorted through them. Women and children were bussed quickly to the camp but men sat in vehicles for hours waiting to undergo security screening.
Some of them took the opportunity to shave thick beards they say Islamic State forced them to grow after seizing large swathes of northern and western Iraq in a bid to build a modern-day caliphate. Tufts of dark facial hair littered the road under one of the vehicle's side-view mirrors.
"It was hell," said Abdul Bassit, describing life under the hardline Sunni Islamists. Smoking was forbidden and carried a punishment of 70 lashes, he said. Dress was strictly regulated, cell phones prohibited and women prevented from leaving the house.
The villagers said Islamic State fighters did not speak to them much and they avoided contact as much as possible. Most of them were Iraqi, they said, but one man recalled meeting a Kuwaiti fighter.
"We would see them in the mosque for the five daily prayers, but that was about it," he said. The fighters were either killed in Monday's clashes with government forces or fled deeper into Islamic State-held territory.
Ahmed Kamel, 31, said the number of Islamic State fighters inside Mosul - estimated by the Iraqi military at up to 6,000 - was small but their insurgent tactics would make it difficult for the 30,000-strong Iraqi force to rout them.
"It could take one month, one year, 10 days," he said of the offensive. "I don't know, but I hope it is 10 days."
Iraq's elite counter-terrorism forces, which are spearheading the offensive, are now just a few kilometers from Mosul. Beyond Tub Zawa, only Bazwaia village and some military camps separate them from the city's eastern limits.
But the troops paused their advance on Tuesday, a senior commander told Reuters, waiting for the other U.S.-backed forces to close in from the south and northeast.
While the soldiers regrouped, one villager recounted his experiences of life under the Sunni militants now preparing to battle for the city.
Sixty eight year-old Ghazi Fathi, sitting alone in the driver's seat of a beat up sedan, raised his stained white galabiya to reveal about a dozen crude stitches above his waist and a large bandage on the left side of his abdomen.
"They tortured me," he said of Islamic State, without explaining how. "They asked me if I was sheltering my Shi'ite neighbors and when I told them 'no' they accused me of lying."
Fathi, writhing in pain on Tuesday, called through his car window for medical aid and water but a peshmerga guard said he had to wait until security clearance was complete. That process did not appear to have started as the sun began to set.

MEXICO CITY Eager to clean up its image before the 2018 presidential election, Mexico's ruling party is weighing whether to discipline two former state governors after expelling another wanted on corruption charges.
Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) Senator Arturo Zamora said on Wednesday that the party's justice committee was reviewing whether to act against former governors Roberto Borge from Quintana Roo and Cesar Duarte in Chihuahua, whom the opposition have accused of fraud and corruption.
The governors deny any wrongdoing.
"Proceedings have been initiated, and we don't know what the result of these two cases will be," Zamora said in a radio interview, noting the party was still gathering evidence.
Battered by allegations of graft, misuse of public funds and conflict-of-interest scandals, President Enrique Pena Nieto's PRI has vowed to go after corrupt officials to counter entrenched public skepticism.
On Tuesday, the PRI expelled outgoing Veracruz governor Javier Duarte, who has been missing since the attorney general's office said a week ago it was seeking his arrest on suspicion of involvement in organized crime and money laundering.
Both Borge and Duarte's terms in office ended in the months after the PRI lost control of their states in a string of regional election defeats in June.
Corruption allegations have swirled around several state governors in recent years, but few have led to prosecution.
Pena Nieto himself became embroiled in a conflict-of-interest controversy in late 2014 when it emerged he, his wife and then-finance minister Luis Videgaray had all bought or made use of houses owned by government contractors.
A subsequent investigation ordered by Pena Nieto found no evidence of any wrongdoing by the three, though it was panned as a whitewash by the opposition.
On Tuesday, Pena Nieto said presidents of Mexico do not wake up thinking how to "screw" the country as he sought to defend his record.
Opinion polls show the centrist PRI faces a tough battle to retain power in the next presidential elections, with opposition hopefuls on the left and right setting the early pace.

NAIROBI Burundi has informed U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of its decision to quit the International Criminal Court, it said on Wednesday, adding momentum to mounting African opposition to the Hague-based tribunal.
African states have long complained the ICC is biased, prosecuting Africans while ignoring others, but they had until recently resisted withdrawing.
Burundi now says it has joined South Africa in taking such a step. Gambia said on Tuesday it would withdraw, saying the court had ignored war crimes by Western nations.
However, the United Nations said it had not received official notification from Burundi.
"An official document announcing Burundi’s move to quit the International Criminal Court was sent to Ban Ki-moon,” Foreign Ministry permanent secretary Joseph Bangurambona, told Reuters.
Another ministry source said the withdrawal document was dated Oct. 19, a day after President Pierre Nkurunziza signed a decree to that effect.
South Africa's letter informing the U.N. chief of its decision to withdraw was also dated Oct. 19, although it was not clear if there was any coordination involved.
South Africa argued that the ICC's Rome Statutes were at odds with its laws granting leaders diplomatic immunity. Other African countries see the tribunal as an instrument of colonial justice that unfairly targets the continent.
Burundi lawmaker Gabriel Ntisezerana said this month when parliament voted to quit the ICC that the court was "a political tool used by powers to remove whoever they want from power on the African continent."
The ICC said in April it would investigate outbreaks of violence in Burundi, which has been mired in a political crisis for more than a year.
The United Nations, Western powers and rights groups have criticized the government for the way it has handled the unrest and have accused it of rights abuses. The government denies this.

BRATISLAVA Slovakia has banned companies with undisclosed ownership from doing business with the state as part of a package of anti-corruption measures, the justice minister said on Wednesday.
The central European nation, which ranked 50th among 168 countries in Transparency International's 2015 corruption perception index, last year introduced a register of final beneficiaries of companies participating in public procurement.
However, law experts have criticized the measures as not being strict enough to prevent corruption, which analysts say stifles the proper functioning of the state and business environment.
"The state will make business only with companies that will disclose their ownership including their final beneficiary, or a real owner," justice minister Lucia Zitnanska told reporters after the ban was approved by parliament.
The move to withhold government contracts from companies with opaque ownership structures comes as governments across Europe seek to improve corporate transparency and crack down on tax avoidance.
In 2011 Slovakia introduced a requirement to put all public contracts on the internet, which analysts said has led to a drop in prices the government pays for procured services.
The government has also introduced a 35 percent tax on dividends from companies based in countries that have not signed an agreement on the international exchange of tax-related information.

PARIS Emmanuel Macron, who quit the French government this summer, on Wednesday unveiled a committee to guide his new movement, six months before an election in which many expect him to run for the presidency.
The former economy minister named the 10 members of the executive committee of "En Marche" or "Forward", to be headed by a Socialist lawmaker.
"It was time to create this structure, first to be ready for 2017 and take progressive ideas further but also to make sure the movement lasts," Macron said at a news conference in Paris near the Elysee presidential palace.
"We're on track to become the biggest organized political movement in France," said Richard Ferrand, a Socialist MP named by Macron as secretary general. En Marche has no elected officials, but almost 90,000 members and 1,500 local groups.
Ferrand dismissed suggestions he could be expelled from the Socialists, whose rules forbid other party memberships, saying the ruling party, which is bleeding support and riven by infighting, was in no position to kick anybody out.
The new top team has five women and five men, including a Muslim Socialist lawmaker, a center-right politician, civil servants and businessmen.
Ferrand said 2.7 million euros ($2.95 million) had been  raised from 6,400 donors so far. The official spending cap in the 2012 campaign was about 21 million euros.
Macron was credited with as much as 18 percent of first-round  presidential votes in a Kantar Sofres OnePoint poll published in Wednesday's Le Figaro newspaper, but would fail to reach the second round runoff with that score.

TEHRAN Promises of more help for Afghan refugees made by the European Union aid chief on his visit to Iran this month were not enough to dissuade Mariam Haidari from wanting to head to Europe.
She plans to go to Germany to join her husband and three of their children who were among a million-strong wave of irregular migrants to arrive in Europe last year, causing a rift among the bloc's members who struggled to agree on how to deal with them.
"Life was very difficult here and my husband was the only breadwinner for the family ... We couldn't afford the living expenses," said Haidari, who was at a refugee administration center in Tehran when EU humanitarian affairs commissioner, Christos Stylianides visited the facility.
To help stem the influx, the bloc is increasing aid to certain countries on migrant routes in the hope of persuading people there to stay put. So far these have included Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and some African countries.
Now the EU is trying this strategy in Iran, which sits on the main transit route for Afghan refugees -- the second-largest group after Syrians to have reached Europe by sea last year.
In Tehran, Stylianides announced the doubling of EU humanitarian aid to Iran to 12.5 million euros this year, with a special focus on education and health services for Afghan refugee children.
"It's better to be close to your home and move back when the situation gets better than to be far away," Stylianides said.
"It's better for Afghan refugees to integrate in this society than in Europe. Here it's the same religion, similar mentality, culture. It's much harder in, let's say, Germany."

IRAN TIES
Iran has only recently become more accessible to such EU diplomacy, enabled by a tentative rapprochement after a landmark agreement last year for Tehran to scale down its nuclear program and the West to ease its hard-hitting sanctions.
The EU hopes humanitarian aid could help re-establish ties with Iran, an Islamic republic of some 78 million people, which has a high number of executions and ranks second in the world on the highest number of imprisoned journalists.
Freedom of expression, rights of ethnic and religious minorities and women there all are a major concern for the bloc.
But during his visit Stylianides carefully avoided criticizing Iran on that, instead playing up the need to rebuild ties with Tehran to be able to engage more on the ground.

EDUCATION
Nevertheless, EU's aid to Iran fades compared to 3 billion euros the bloc promised to Turkey for its help in managing migration.
Iranian officials said foreign aid covers only about 6 percent of the cost of hosting the Afghan refugee community and said the EU should do more.
"I would call it an investment for the European Union, any kind of support to the education system," said Hamid Shamsaldili at Iran's Bureau for Aliens and Foreign Immigrants Affairs. "Any kind of support to this country will prevent these people from going to European countries."
The situation of Afghan refugees in Iran is often dire.
Iran has hosted the large refugee community for more than 30 years now as Afghans first fled the Soviet invasion, then the long Taliban insurgency and now Islamic State attacks.
A third of them have a formal refugee status with some limited benefits. But the other two millions are "undocumented", meaning that for generations they have had no access to education, jobs or healthcare.
Last year, as its ties with the West started to improve slowly, Tehran allowed children of the "undocumented" Afghan refugees to attend public primary schools. Aid groups on the ground say some 48,000 such children enrolled in 2015.
It was the first time Western aid agencies could reach out to this large and extremely vulnerable group.
"There has been quite a lot of hope, from the Iranian authorities as well as from our side, that this political opening will create more funding options," said Olivier Vandecasteele, the Norwegian Refugee Council's head in Iran.
"So far it has raised interest but it hasn't translated into any additional huge funding decisions."
At the time of Stylianides' visit, Swedish officials were in Tehran to pick 157 Afghans for resettlement, a tiny share of the large numbers of such requests.
It is mostly the younger Afghans who want to go to Europe but EU's asylum acceptance rates for them are low.
And they face dangers along the way: For those crossing the Mediterranean, as most Afghan refugees do, the UNHCR said 2016 is shaping up to be the deadliest year yet.

JOHANNESBURG South Africa's anti-graft watchdog has told President Jacob Zuma that its report into possible undue political influence of his friends is final, dimming his hopes of adding to its findings as he battles pressure from within his own ANC party to resign.
Zuma filed an affidavit in court on Tuesday asking whether the report was final and if he would be able to question witnesses himself and respond to accusations he allowed an Indian-born business family to interfere in state affairs.
The Gupta brothers, Ajay, Atul and Rajesh, are subject of a report on allegations that they swayed appointments of ministers and use political connections to win tenders.
Zuma, facing calls to quit from opposition parties and even within the ruling African National Congress due to his links with the Gupta family, denies any impropriety, as do the three businessmen.
The Public Protector said the report had already been completed by Thuli Madonsela, whose seven-year term as head of the constitutionally-mandated watchdog ended this month. She has been succeeded by Busisiwe Mkhwebane.
"The Public Protector has the president’s latest affidavit and has through the attorneys confirmed that the report was finalised and signed by Adv. Madonsela on 14 October 2016," Mkhwebane's spokeswoman told Reuters.
Zuma had successfully delayed the report's planned Oct. 14 release by asking a court to first hear arguments that he had not had the chance to review any evidence that implicated him. The hearing is due on Nov. 1.
Madonsela, who was a thorn in Zuma's side, had previously said the report was final and that the president had been given an opportunity to respond to allegations, including during a four-hour interview earlier this month.
The dispute over the report comes at a time when Zuma's government is reeling after Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was ordered to appear in court on Nov. 2 to hear fraud charges against him. Gordhan has dismissed the charges as "frivolous".
The opposition and analysts say Gordhan's woes are a witch-hunt by a faction allied to the president, recalling that the finance minister has vowed to fight patronage in government.
Zuma has denied there is any plot to oust Gordhan.
The Business Day newspaper on Wednesday cited an internal party report in which some branches of the ANC are calling for Zuma and the main party's leadership to step down after a poor showing at local elections in August.
ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa declined to be drawn on the report, saying "we don't comment on internal discussions."

JERUSALEM Two Israeli security guards will not face charges for shooting dead a Palestinian woman brandishing a knife and her brother, the Justice Ministry said on Wednesday.
Prosecutors determined that the two guards, whose names have been withheld, acted lawfully in the face of what they considered a threat. Israeli police said after the attack in April the Palestinian siblings had both had knives and tried to carry out an attack at Qalandia checkpoint in the West Bank.
"After examining the evidence, including the security guards' versions and the video footage ... the case has been closed against one of the guards for lack of evidence and the other because he was blameless," the ministry statement said.
Camera footage, the statement said, showed 16-year-old Ibrahim Taha with one hand in his pocket while trying to pull his sister, Maram Abu Ismail, 23, away from guards.
But it said neither had heeded calls to back away and that a subsequent search of Ibrahim's body uncovered several knives, including one identical to the one brandished and then hurled at a guard by his sister.
Owing to the swift pace of events and security concerns during a period of frequent Palestinian attacks, the self-defense argument of the guard who shot Taha "cannot be ruled out", the statement said.
Palestinian authorities said at the time of the incident that the siblings had been en route to Jerusalem for a medical appointment and had accidentally entered a vehicles-only lane on foot.
Over the past year, Palestinians, many acting alone and often using rudimentary weapons, have killed at least 35 Israelis and two visiting Americans in similar attacks.
During the same period, at least 223 Palestinians have died in violent incidents in the occupied West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. Of those, Israel has identified 151 as assailants, while others were killed during clashes and protests.
Palestinians have accused Israeli police and soldiers of using excessive force against many of the attackers.
In a separate case, an Israeli conscript is standing trial for manslaughter after he shot a Palestinian assailant who was lying on the ground after being seriously wounded by gunshots. If convicted, he could face up to 20 years in prison.
Palestinian leaders say assailants are acting out of desperation over the collapse in 2014 of peace talks and the expansion of Israeli settlements on occupied land that Palestinians seek for an independent state.
Some relatives of Palestinians killed while carrying out assaults say their actions were caused by personal problems or emotional distress.

ROME Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi on Wednesday threatened to block the European Union's next budget with a "veto" should Eastern European countries fail to take in their share of refugees.
"If the Eastern countries who are growing with the help of our money do not open their doors to migrants as has been agreed, then we'll put a veto on the future European budget," Renzi said at a rally in Avellino, Italy, for an upcoming referendum over his flagship reform of the constitution.
The proposal for the next EU budget, for the 2021-27 period, is supposed to be completed by the end of next year. Technically, Italy does not have a veto over the budget, which can be approved with a qualified majority vote, though unanimity is often sought.
The prime minister has frequently denounced a lack of European solidarity amid the migrant crisis as Italy seeks EU approval for an expansionary budget that includes some 3.9 billion euros ($4.25 billion) in spending on migrants next year, and as he campaigns for a referendum on which he has staked his future.

PODGORICA Montenegro's ruling Democratic Party of Socialists proposed a new candidate for premier on Wednesday to woo allies after losing its majority in an Oct. 16 election, with rivals refusing to deal with veteran DPS leader Milo Djukanovic.
The DPS came out ahead but was deserted by its key coalition ally, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) led by Ranko Krivokapic before the election and the vote was overshadowed by allegations of ballot fraud and the arrest on election day of 20 Serbian citizens accused of plotting armed attacks against the state.
Major opposition parties have rejected any talks with Djukanovic, whom they accuse of corruption and authoritarianism and of exaggerating the scale of supposed influence of Russian and nationalist Serb groups in the country to sway the vote.
Over the 25 years he has spent at the pinnacle of the tiny Adriatic state's politics, Djukanovic has oscillated between the presidency and the prime ministership with only two short stints out of power in 2006 and 2010.
On Wednesday, the DPS nominated Djukanovic's deputy and close ally, Dusko Markovic, as prime minister-designate to seek a mandate from President Filip Vujanovic to form a government, though the DPS said Djukanovic would remain party chief.
"Djukanovic will personally provide strong support to Markovic and the future government," the DPS said in a statement. It remained unclear whether other parties seen as candidates for a coalition would accept Markovic as a potential partner.
The DPS hopes to secure a two-seat majority together with the small Social Democracy party (SDCG) and parties representing minorities to form the government.
Markovic, 58, is one of Djukanovic's most trusted allies. He also serves as the deputy president of the DPS and was previously the head of Montenegro's state security agency.
During the campaign, Djukanovic presented the election as a chance for Montenegro, with a population of 620,000, to either join NATO and the EU or pursue deeper ties with traditional allies in Serbia and Russia.

CAPE TOWN Students at South African universities and higher education institutions will receive an extra 17 billion rand ($1.2 billion) over the next three years, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Wednesday.
The government of Africa's most industrilised country is under pressure to improve access to education following the protests that have disrupted learning at various campuses but has said in response to the protests that it could not allocate extra funds to education at the expense of health or housing.
Weeks of demonstrations calling for the scrapping of university fees, prohibitive for many black students, have highlighted frustration at enduring inequalities in South Africa more than two decades after the end of white minority rule.
"The medium-term budget policy statement proposes to accelerate the growth of spending on post-school education," said the Treasury.
"A zero percent university increase in 2018 would likely result in a shift of resources from other priorities towards higher education," the Treasury said.
Students took the streets when the government in September recommended that 2017 university tuition fee increases be capped at 8 percent, higher than the current inflation rate of 6.1 percent.
Spending on post-school education and training rises to 89.3 billion rand in 2019/20 from a revised 68.6 billion rand in 2016/17, an annual growth rate of just over 9 percent and one that outpaces inflation of 6.1 percent.
Over the past five years, spending on tertiary education and training has grown faster than other budgets, including health and policing, and increased from 1 percent of GDP in 2008 to 1.5 percent today, said the Treasury.
However, as South Africa has tried to avoid a low-growth trap with real GDP growth estimated at 0.5 percent this year, the Treasury warned that policy risks over the medium term are mainly associated with unanticipated spending requests, such as the call for free education.

LONDON An earthquake measuring 5.8 magnitude shook Turkmenistan on Wednesday 11 km east of Balakabat near the Caspian Sea, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) said.
The quake struck at a depth of 28 km (17 miles).

JOHANNESBURG South Africa's Public Protector, a constitutionally-mandated anti-graft watchdog, confirmed on Wednesday that an investigation into possible undue political influence by wealthy friends of President Jacob Zuma was final.
Zuma filed an affidavit to court on Tuesday seeking clarification over whether he would be able to question witnesses himself before the public protector finalised its report.
"The Public Protector has the President’s latest affidavit and has through the attorneys confirmed that the report was finalised and signed ... on 14 October 2016," the public protector's spokesperson Kgalalelo Masibi said.

MADRID Russia has withdrawn a request to refuel warships in Spain's North African enclave of Ceuta, Madrid said on Wednesday, after NATO allies said their carrier battle group could be used to target civilians in Syria.
Britain said earlier it had raised concerns with NATO ally Spain over its decision to allow three ships in the Russian flotilla to resupply in Ceuta on their way to the eastern Mediterranean. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said all allies were aware of NATO's concerns about the Russian mission.
The Spanish government said it had granted permission in September for the three Russian ships to dock in Ceuta between Oct. 28 and Nov. 2 in line with its long-standing practice of allowing Russian Navy ships to visit its ports.
The Foreign Ministry said it had asked the Russian Embassy in Madrid for clarification after reports that the three ships would support attacks on the embattled Syrian city of Aleppo.
"The Russian Embassy in Madrid has just informed us that it is withdrawing the request for permission for stopovers for these ships and these stopovers have therefore been canceled," the ministry said after saying earlier that it was reviewing the Russian request.
The Russian embassy in Spain confirmed that Moscow had withdrawn a request for the warships to refuel in Ceuta, the RIA news agency reported. It gave no reason for the change of heart.
NATO is monitoring the eight-strong carrier battle group from northern Russia on its way to the eastern Mediterranean, where alliance officials fear it will launch fighter bombers to hit rebels in northwestern Syria early in November.

"SERIOUSLY?"
Speaking earlier in Brussels, Stoltenberg said it was up to Spain to decide whether to refuel a Russian tanker traveling with the carrier battle group, but that NATO had expressed its concern to allies, including Madrid.
"We are concerned about the potential use of this carrier group to increase attacks against civilians in Aleppo," Stoltenberg said, referring to the war-ravaged Syrian city where government forces are besieging its rebel-controlled eastern half. "All allies are aware of our concerns."
British Defence Secretary Michael Fallon told reporters in Brussels that London would be "extremely concerned that any NATO member should consider assisting a Russian carrier group that might end up bombing Syrian civilians.
"NATO should be standing together," he said.
Britain has raised concerns with Spain over the possible refueling of Russian warships on their way to Syria, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister Theresa May said.
Former Belgian prime minister Guy Verhofstadt, who leads the Liberal bloc in the European Parliament, said on Twitter: "Spain signed EU statement on Russian war crimes in Aleppo last week; today helps refuel fleet on way to commit more atrocities. Seriously?"
The naval group, which passed through the English Channel on Friday, is made up of Russia's sole aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov, as well as a nuclear-powered battle cruiser, two anti-submarine warships and four support vessels, likely escorted by submarines, according to NATO officials.
The naval deployment is carrying dozens of fighter bombers and helicopters and is expected to join around 10 other Russian vessels already off the Syrian coast, diplomats said.
Washington's envoy to NATO said Russia was within its rights to move vessels through international waters. But U.S. Ambassador Douglas Lute raised concern that the aircraft carrier would be used to contribute to bombing of civilian targets around Aleppo.

KABUL Afghan authorities have arrested two men who were planning to attack the Indian consulate in the city of Jalalabad and seized bomb-making equipment, the National Directorate for Security said on Wednesday.
The arrests come at a time of heightened tensions between India and Pakistan over Kashmir and after an attack on a police academy in the Pakistani city of Quetta this week in which around 60 people were killed.
The consulate, in the eastern region bordering Pakistan, has been attacked before.

SHKODER, Albania Albania’s new Roman Catholic cardinal stuck to his faith even when his communist persecutors screwed handcuffs on so tight that he fainted from pain, or when they tried luring him into marriage to escape jail.
Ernest Simoni, the only survivor of a Catholic clergy that was wiped out by Albania's post-war Communist regime, became the mainly Muslim country's only cardinal after impressing Pope Francis with his fortitude in the face of a lifetime of privations and torture.
"He wanted to kiss my hand but I pushed it away," Simoni said of their meeting two years ago. "We did not speak."
His Calvary began on Christmas Day 1963 after he celebrated a mass for slain U.S. President John F. Kennedy, a Catholic. The regime of dictator Enver Hoxha felt challenged by a young priest whose church brimmed with young believers.
"They let me finish the mass but arrested me straight afterwards and showed me my death warrant," Simoni, 88, told Reuters, sitting in his brother's home at a table adorned with statuettes of Christ, Mary and other saints.
"I was to hang because I had told the people we should die for Christ," Simoni said. Interrogators tried to tempt him into recanting his faith with the offer of marriage to a "beautiful girl," he said.
"They screwed the handcuffs on so hard that they cut into my flesh," he said. "I fainted. They poured water on me. God saved me."
Sentenced to 18 years' prison and forced labor for saying the mass for Kennedy and for agitating against agricultural cooperatives, Simoni continued to preach to fellow prisoners.
After being released from jail 10 years before communism was toppled in 1991, he worked as a manual laborer, digging sewers by day and ministering to believers in their homes at night.
"I heard their confessions and baptized them, all over the mountains of Northern Albania," he said.
Pope Francis named Simoni among 17 new "princes of the Church" on Oct. 9, and they will be created cardinals at a Vatican ceremony on Nov. 19. Being over 80, Simoni cannot take part in the next conclave to elect the current pope's successor.

ATHENS A group of Syrian refugees protested on Wednesday at the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) premises in a migrant camp on the Greek island of Chios, forcing its staff to evacuate, officials said.
It was the second protest by asylum seekers this week against delays in the processing of their claims. On Monday, a group on the island of Lesbos hurled rocks and burning blankets at an EASO office, damaging three of its containers.
Tensions have boiled over in overcrowded migrant camps on Greece's islands, hosting about 15,000 asylum seekers. A European Union deal with Turkey prevents them from going beyond Greece, or even its islands, until their claims are assessed. Those who do not qualify are deported to Turkey.
A police spokesman for the northern Aegean region said minor damage was caused to EASO's offices on Chios during Wednesday's protest. Riot police stepped in to break up the crowd, he said.
EASO Spokesman Jean-Pierre Schembri said the agency's 30 staff had to evacuate the camp, suspending interviews. Work has yet to resume on Lesbos following Monday's attack, he said.
More than 60,000 refugees and migrants are stranded in Greece since March, when Balkan countries closed their borders and intercepted their journey to northern Europe.

MOSCOW Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif will holds talks in Moscow on Friday with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov to discuss Syria and Iraq, the RIA news agency reported on Wednesday, citing the foreign ministry.
RIA said they would discuss closer coordination in the Middle East.
The Russian Foreign Ministry said earlier on Wednesday that Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem would also be in Moscow on Friday for talks.

LONDON Unknown assailants attacked a gas tanker off the coast of Yemen close to the Bab al-Mandab waterway in the latest flare up in an area through which much of the world's oil passes, shipping and security officials said on Wednesday.
The incident, the first attack on a commercial ship since July, followed missile attacks in recent weeks on military craft, including U.S. navy vessels, which were launched from Yemen that had already raised risks for merchant shipping.
Shipping group Teekay said its LNG (liquefied natural gas) tanker Galicia Spirit "experienced a suspected piracy attack whilst off the coast of Yemen" on Oct. 25.
"No third parties managed to board the vessel during the incident and all crew members are safe and have been accounted for," Teekay said in a statement.
"As a precaution, the vessel had a Djibouti warship in attendance when heading away from the area. She has now left the high risk area without any further issues," it added without further details.
Maritime security sources said the incident occurred near Perim Island, which is about 14 km from the southern Yemeni coast and the site of a lighthouse for ships passing through the Bab al-Mandab.
British maritime security firm MAST said a small vessel had approached the tanker and fired a rocket propelled grenade (RPG).
"MAST understands that the vessel had no armed security team on board, and that the vessel sustained small arms fire as well as the RPG," it said. "It is unclear whether this is a terrorist attack or piracy."
The Royal Navy's UK Maritime Trade Operation said in a circular to mariners and seen by Reuters that the incident was still being investigated "as is the alleged use of RPG".
The UK Maritime Component Command, responsible for Royal Navy activity in the Middle East, said in a statement on Wednesday "details are still emerging as to the exact nature of the incident event and investigations are still on-going".
While shipping companies have yet to divert ships, the stakes are high given nearly four million barrels of oil are shipped daily to Europe, the United States and Asia via the Bab al-Mandab as well as other commercial goods.
Yemen's civil war continues to escalate, pitting the Iran-aligned Houthi movement, backed by troops loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, against the internationally recognized government of Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi, backed by Saudi Arabia.
The United States carried out cruise missile strikes on Oct. 15 against radar sites in Houthi controlled areas of Yemen after two confirmed attempts to hit U.S. Navy destroyer USS Mason with coastal cruise missiles close to the Bab al-Mandab. The Houthi movement has denied firing on the USS Mason.
The Houthis have confirmed a separate earlier attack on a United Arab Emirates vessel in the area.
"While small boats were implicated in these military attacks, there is no evidence that they are connected with this latest incident," said Michael Edey, head of operations with British security firm Dryad Maritime.
"I would suggest that this attack was by locals from southern Yemen rather than the Houthis."

JERUSALEM Israeli archaeologists have made public a fragment of an ancient text which they say is the earliest Hebrew reference to Jerusalem outside the Bible - a discovery the government swiftly enlisted as evidence of the Jewish connection to the holy city.
The 11 cm by 2.5 cm (4.3 by one inch) piece of papyrus, dated by the Israel Antiquities Authority to the 7th century B.C., was presented at a news conference in Jerusalem shortly after Paris-based UNESCO adopted a resolution that Israel said denied Judaism's link to the ancient city.
Two lines of ancient Hebrew script on the fragile and faded artifact suggest it was part of a document detailing the payment of taxes or transfer of goods to storehouses in Jerusalem.
"From the king's maidservant, from Na'arat, jars of wine, to Jerusalem," it reads.
The Antiquities Authority said its investigators had recovered the document, described as "the earliest extra-biblical source to mention Jerusalem in Hebrew writing", after it was plundered from a cave by antiquities robbers.
For Israel's government, the papyrus is a rebuttal to UNESCO, the UN scientific and cultural organization, which is regarded by many Israelis as hostile. Arab members of UNESCO and their supporters frequently condemn Israel.
"Hey UNESCO, an ancient papyrus dating to the 1st Temple 2700 yrs ago has been found. It bears the oldest known mention of Jerusalem in Hebrew," Ofir Gendelman, a spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, wrote on Twitter.
Emmanuel Nahshon, a spokesman for Israel's Foreign Ministry, called Wednesday's vote in Paris by UNESCO's World Heritage Committee "a piece of rubbish".
The resolution, according to a text provided by Palestinian officials, refers to a Jerusalem compound - revered by Jews as Temple Mount and by Muslims as Haram al-Sharif (Noble Sanctuary) - only as a "Muslim holy site of worship".
Two weeks ago, Israel lashed out at UNESCO for renewing a similar resolution that condemned it for restrictions on Muslim access to the site, in a part of Jerusalem captured by Israeli forces in a 1967 war.
Israel considers all of Jerusalem as its capital, a position that is not recognized internationally. Palestinians want East Jerusalem as the capital of an independent state they seek in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
"The discovery of the papyrus on which the name of our capital Jerusalem is written is further tangible evidence that Jerusalem was and will remain the eternal capital of the Jewish people," said Israeli Culture Minister Miri Regev, in comments included in an Antiquties Authority announcement of the find.
Saeb Erekat, secretary general of the Palestine Liberation Organization, accused Israel of waging an campaign of "archaeological claims and distortion of facts" to try to cement its claim to the holy city.

BUDAPEST A Hungarian policeman was shot dead with a machine gun early on Wednesday when police tried to search the home of a 76-year-old man suspected of illegal possession of firearms, police and prosecutors said.
The policeman, 46, was shot in the head during the attack in Bony, near the western industrial hub of Gyor, police said. The assailant was wounded by police fire and was rushed off to a local hospital.
"As police entered the premises, the assailant, who was the subject of the investigation, used a firearm against police officers," prosecutor Imre Keresztes told a news conference.
"Based on current findings, the assailant fired 5 to 6 shots from a machine gun," he added.
Prosecutors gave no further information about the assailant. Regional news website kisalfold.hu said he was a member of a local far-right organization.

LONDON Britain has raised concerns with Spain over the possible refueling of Russian warships on their way to Syria, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday, adding that the situation was being monitored closely.
Spain's foreign ministry has said it is reviewing a request by a Russian flotilla to refuel in its North African enclave of Ceuta, as NATO raised concerns that the warships headed for Syria could be used to target civilians in Aleppo.
"There is the issue that countries enable fleets to move through international waters, but we are monitoring the situation closely. We have been raising our concerns with the Spanish and we will continue to monitor it," the spokeswoman told reporters.
"The prime minister has been clear that we want to be working with other partners to increase pressure on Russia to stop the bombing in Aleppo. That's what really counts here."

BERLIN The German Foreign Ministry has canceled a long-planned concert by the Dresden Sinfoniker orchestra in Istanbul on Nov. 13 that was to commemorate the 1915 massacre of Armenians after protests by Ankara, orchestra director Markus Rindt said on Wednesday.
The ministry notified the orchestra that the German consulate in Istanbul, where the performance called "aghet", or "catastrophe" in Armenian, was to have taken place, would not be available on Nov. 13, Rindt said. The piece premiered in Berlin in November.
"It's definitely been canceled. They said they wanted to reschedule at a better time, but when would that be? This has been planned for years," Rindt told Reuters.
Turkey, angered by the German parliament's decision to brand the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces a genocide, had protested the use of European Union funding to support the performance, and earlier this month withdrew from the EU  cultural arms program that was funding the project.
While Turkey accepts that many Armenians died in partisan fighting beginning in 1915, it denies that up to 1.5 million were killed and that this constituted an act of genocide, a term used by many Western historians and foreign parliaments.
The Dresden Sinfoniker performance includes musicians from Turkey, Armenia, Germany and members of the No Borders Orchestra, which is comprised of musicians from the former Yugoslavia. Additional performances are planned in Belgrade on Nov. 5 and in Yerevan, Armenia on Nov. 10.
Ties between Germany and Turkey remain strained over the Armenia resolution and Ankara's frustration about what it sees as Germany's half-hearted expressions of solidarity after the July 15 attempted military coup in Turkey.


LONDON There is no reason Britain's June vote to leave the European Union should undermine a 1998 Northern Irish peace deal, Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday.
Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU and Irish nationalist parties oppose Brexit, saying it could undermine the 1998 Belfast Agreement and reinstate a hard border with the Republic of Ireland.
"I don't believe there's any reason to believe that the outcome of the referendum will do anything to undermine the absolute rock-solid commitment of this government and the people of Northern Ireland to the settlement that was set out in the Belfast Agreement," May told parliament.
"There is, and remains, a strong support for the entirely peaceful future for Northern Ireland that has been determined by democracy and consent ... We remain committed to that."

JERUSALEM Prosecutors in Israel on Wednesday charged 13 people with inciting violence and terrorism after a wedding video showed  far-right Jews dancing with guns and knives and guests mocking the death by arson of a Palestinian toddler.
The amateur video of the wedding in Jerusalem in December was broadcast on Israeli television, causing an outcry. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said its "shocking images show the true face of a group that constitutes a danger" to Israeli society.
Court officials in Jerusalem said 13 wedding participants - including the bridegroom - were indicted on Wednesday on charges of inciting violence or terrorism.
The crimes carry a penalty of up to five years' imprisonment. Pleas have yet to be entered.
In the video, one dancing celebrant stabbed a picture of 18-month-old Ali Dawabshe while others waved assault rifles, knives and what appeared to be a petrol bomb. Wedding songs contained lyrics such as "the mosque will burn" and "the mosque will explode".
The boy and his parents died after their home in the village of Duma in the occupied West Bank was set ablaze in July 2015. A 21-year-old Jewish settler was charged last January with racially motivated murder, and a second Jewish defendant, a minor at the time of the incident, was charged as an accessory.
Palestinians have long complained about attacks and harassment by far-right settlers in the West Bank and accused Israel's right-wing government of not doing enough to rein them in.
Netanyahu, who has been dealing with a more than year-long wave of Palestinian street attacks, has pledged to take "firm action against terrorism, no matter who its perpetrators are".


RAMALLAH/GAZA Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other Arab states are piling pressure on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to resolve divisions in his Fatah party and with the rival Hamas movement, amid growing concerns about whether Palestinian democracy is under threat.
Neighboring states, diplomats and major funders fear the festering divisions could lead to conflict, and say the lack of a clear transition process raises questions about what would happen if the 81-year-old Abbas, in power since 2005 despite his mandate expiring, were to die in office.
In a non-binding paper circulated last month, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates made recommendations for tackling splits that have deepened over the past year, while strengthening Palestinian leadership and trying to keep the stalled peace process with Israel alive.
"Efforts to unite Fatah and empower it are aimed at balancing the Palestinian internal arena and this falls under the responsibilities of the head of the movement, Abu Mazen," the two-page paper said, referring to Abbas by his nickname.
Among the recommendations was the holding of "free and fair" elections for parliament and the presidency by July 2017, although there are no indications that will happen. They would be the first parliamentary elections since January 2006.
"The primary reasons are Abbas's systematic mismanagement of such relationships, and a weakness of leadership that has opened greater opportunities for Arab and foreign interference in Palestinian internal affairs," said Mouin Rabbani, a senior fellow with the Institute for Palestine Studies.
In a clear signal of its growing frustration, Saudi Arabia, which normally provides around $20 million a month to the Palestinian budget, has not made any contributions since April, according to the Palestinian finance ministry's website.
Palestinian officials say Riyadh is withholding the funds because it first wants to see progress on unity within Fatah and with Hamas, the Islamist group that controls Gaza.
With the United States, the European Union and individual EU member states having already cut their contributions, the Palestinian budget faces a severe shortfall this year, which the World Bank puts at around $600 million.
Asked about the pressure from Arab states, Abbas's spokesman Nabil Abu Rdainah declined to comment directly but said the focus of Fatah and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which Abbas also chairs, has always been on Palestinian unity.
"Any attempt to intervene in the independence of Palestinian national decision-making will fail, just as it has failed throughout the past 40 years," he said. Abbas himself has said nothing in public about the political process in months.

POLITICAL JOSTLING
Rabbani said it was increasingly clear the race to succeed Abbas had begun, with a number of rivals positioning themselves for the day he is gone.
Abbas faces several challenges. Opinion polls show Palestinians have lost confidence in his leadership, and if parliamentary elections were held tomorrow, it is possible Hamas would win in both Gaza and in the West Bank, where Fatah and Abbas have traditionally been stronger.
At the same time, factions within Fatah are growing more agitated, with rival groups emerging ahead of a party congress set to take place next month, the first since 2009.
Mohammed Dahlan, a former Fatah security chief who fell out with Abbas and now lives in self-imposed exile in the United Arab Emirates, is a staunch Abbas critic who retains influence within Fatah's revolutionary council and central committee.
Some senior Fatah figures want Abbas to reconcile with Dahlan, but the president shows no such inclination. At the party congress, Abbas is expected to push for the election of a new central committee and revolutionary council - the equivalent of Fatah's parliament - that would be free of Dahlan loyalists.
Dahlan, 55, said that if Abbas did try to push such changes through, it would be "illegitimate".
It "will represent the most dangerous split in the history of Fatah and will be regarded as a palace coup," he told Reuters in written comments, adding that there were legitimate reasons to worry about a collapse in the democratic process.
"It is time to implement the will of the people and implement the law by electing a new leadership and not a new leader. There is a historical and national need to hold parliament and presidential elections," he said.
In an analysis last week, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace described Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for more than 50 years, as "tearing itself apart", with worrying implications for the future.
"It is likely that the split within Fatah will further widen if Dahlan is excluded from holding a leadership position," it wrote. "Furthermore, the dispute between the Dahlan and Abbas factions could evolve into open warfare, which could mean instability or even violence - especially where Dahlan wields considerable power in the Gaza Strip, the northern West Bank and Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon."
This week has already seen unrest in some West Bank refugee camps where Dahlan has a strong following.
Diplomats say Dahlan has good ties with Egypt as well as the Gulf states. Cairo sees him as a helpful interlocutor with Hamas in Gaza, where Dahlan is from, and as someone with the energy and strength to shake up Palestinian politics.
Others, though, see Dahlan as the power behind the throne. Officials who have met him think he may act as a kingmaker, rather than a future Palestinian president, throwing his support behind another senior Fatah figure as leader.
A number of names crop up in both Palestinian and Israeli assessments, including Nasser al-Qudwa, the nephew of late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, Jibril Rajoub, a former security chief who heads the Palestine Football Association, and Majid Faraj, the head of Palestinian intelligence.
Yet the most popular Palestinian politician, according to opinion polls, remains Marwan Barghouti, a leader of the first and second uprisings against Israel who was convicted of murder by an Israeli court in 2004 and is serving five life sentences.

ISTANBUL Turkey's military operations in Syria aim to secure control of the towns of al-Bab and Manbij but are not intended to stretch to the city of Aleppo, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday.
"Let's make a joint fight against terrorist organizations. But Aleppo belongs to the people of Aleppo, we must explain this ... making calculations over Aleppo would not be right," Erdogan said in a speech in Ankara.
His comments came after forces allied to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad warned Turkey against any advance toward their positions to the north and east of Aleppo, saying any such move would be met "decisively and with force".

PADERBORN, Germany A couple accused of luring women to their house in western Germany and torturing them so badly that at least two died went on trial on Wednesday, accused of murder by neglect.
Angelika B., 47, who is now estranged from her partner, entered the courtroom first, shielding her face behind a file.
Wilfried W., a bearded 46-year-old, stood calmly and looked at photographers as he entered the court in Paderborn, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.
Investigators have accused the pair of using online personal advertisements to lure women to their home in the small town of Hoexter.
Police were drawn to the house after a woman, aged 41 and identified as Susanne F., died in hospital in April from injuries related to torture.
Wilfried W.'s lawyer said the former couple were at odds over who was the driving force behind the crimes.
"The ex-wife is portraying him as the main perpetrator, at least in her latest statements," said Detlev Otto Binder, speaking to reporters outside the courtroom.
"We hope that she will pedal back from her latest statements and that she will actually recollect how things actually happened: that she was actually the decisive and driving force in the events," he added.
Peter Wueller, lawyer for Angelika W. said: "she will lay everything on the table."
A ruling is not expected before March.

ANKARA A planned operation to retake the Syrian city of Raqqa from Islamic State should be carried out by local forces and the Kurdish YPG militia should not be included, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Wednesday.
The United States regards the YPG as an ally in its fight against Islamic State, but Turkey regards it as a terrorist organization because of its links with Kurdish militants fighting a three-decade insurgency in Turkey.
Cavusoglu was speaking at a news conference in Ankara.

KUALA LUMPUR Authorities will adopt more "invisible" screening measures to step up security in and around airports as they increasingly become targets for extremist activities, aviation industry experts said this week.
Security in areas open to the public has been in the spotlight this year after a June suicide attack killed more than 40 people at Istanbul's main airport, and March suicide attacks by Islamist bombers killed 16 people at Brussels airport.
After the attack, Brussels set up tents outside the airport to screen passengers before entry, but industry officials say such a step only moves the target, rather than halting attacks.
Discreet screening measures that allow passengers and visitors to quickly get through security without crowding are likely to be adopted by airports and law enforcement, industry officials said at the AVSEC World conference in Kuala Lumpur.
"It can be screening and profiling that you can never see," said Ross Lockie, Asia-Pacific regional officer for aviation security and facilitation, at the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations agency.
License plate readers, scanners and facial recognition technology that do the job in a less obvious and intrusive way will be adopted to screen passengers and others, the experts said.
Besides smarter technology, more plainclothes police and greater behavioral analysis by staff or law enforcement are expected to be added.
Last week, Brussels Airport said it would soon remove its screening tents, in favor of introducing several new and less visible safety measures, such as automatic recognition of number plates and facial recognition.
Aviation and security experts say attacks in areas open to the public are becoming increasingly attractive, because of the crowds gathered there.
"I certainly see political expectation to do more landside (security) across Europe and the world after the tragic attacks in Brussels and Istanbul," said Alexis Long, head of security policy at London's Heathrow airport.
"We will see a much more mature type of checkpoint being developed, one that may not be as visible to the general public. I think human factors are going to play an equal part."

TRAINING TAXI DRIVERS
Turkey was also trying out new technologies after the June attacks, said Yener Cetinkaya, an assistant aviation expert at the Turkish Directorate General of Civil aviation.
It has begun to train airport employees and others, such as shuttle and taxi drivers who have regular access to the airports, to do some screening on their own, he added.
"Because they come to the airport very often, they are part of the security culture," he said.
Security fears have pushed governments in Europe to assign more police to guard airports, and officers armed with machine guns have become a more common sight.
After attacks first in Paris and then Nice, France now requires all passengers on international flights to display passports on arrival. Earlier, visitors from the passport-free Schengen zone could land and exit without showing identification.
    "Landside security must be far more sophisticated, far more selective and automatic," Henrik Hololei, director general of the European Commission's transport department, said at the conference.

ANKARA Turkish authorities have replaced three quarters of provincial police heads, the Official Gazette showed on Wednesday, part of a sweeping crackdown that began in July after a failed coup.
Since the coup attempt, Turkey has arrested 35,000 people and sacked or suspended more than 100,000 others in the civil service, judiciary, police and elsewhere.
Ankara says it wants to root out supporters of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen whom it blames for masterminding the coup attempt. Gulen denies the charge.
Turkish officials have said the interior ministry has ramped up efforts to purge the police and state institutions after the appointment at the end of August of a new minister Suleyman Soylu, seen as close to President Tayyip Erdogan.
The police chiefs of 61 of Turkey's 81 provinces have been reassigned to positions outside their provinces, according to the decree published in the Official Gazette. It did not say when the reassignment went into effect.
Separately, authorities detained 81 police officers in Istanbul, the privately owned Dogan news agency reported. The Istanbul chief prosecutor's office has issued arrest warrants for 125 police officers and raids were underway to capture the remaining officers, Dogan said.
Prosecutors in the Aegean city of Izmir have also issued arrest warrants for 55 people as part of the investigations, Dogan reported. Police has already detained 30 people including academics and students in a raid at the province's largest university, it said.
The reach of the crackdown has worried rights groups and some of Turkey's Western allies, who fear that Erdogan is using the failed coup as a pretext to curtain dissent.

LIMA Supplies needed to keep operating one of the world's biggest copper mines, Las Bambas, are running out as access roads remain blocked by protesters in Peru, Chinese-owned miner MMG Ltd said on Friday.
Protests against the company's use of local roads in the highland province of Challhuahuacho have expanded since a protester was shot dead in clashes with police a week ago.
"Community roads are currently blocked and supplies for operating and subsisting are about to run out," MMG's Chief Executive Andrew Michelmore said in an emailed statement in Spanish.
"We now have large reserves that cannot be transported by road, a situation that cannot go on for much longer," he added.
The company said it lamented the death of the protester, a father of three, and was committed to working with the government and community leaders to keep the mine operating.
However, the central government and local leaders remained in a stalemate on Friday as several thousand protesters continued to demand the presence of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, said Artemio Solano, a representative in the office of the state ombudsman responsible for Challhuahuacho.
The government had been scheduled to meet on Monday with the chiefs of Quechua-speaking towns angry over the company's use of a communal road to transport its concentrates to port, which they say pollute their lands. But the unrest that erupted during the police crackdown on Oct. 14 inflamed tensions and the meeting was canceled.
"The entire province has now joined the protest," Solano said.
Prime Minister Fernando Zavala said earlier this week that Kuczynski was open to talks with the protesters but added that he would not travel to the region while any "forceful actions" were taking place.
MMG said the situation risked hurting the company's reputation and the reputation of other investors in Peru.
Las Bambas, which started operations late last year, churned out 106,123 tonnes of copper in the third quarter, the first full quarter of production, the company said earlier this week.


QAYYARA, Iraq Reuters) - Sitting on a broken chair at a school where hundreds of families who fled Islamic State are seeking refuge south of Mosul, Younis Ali describes how he lost his four brothers and five sisters.
"I have learned that they tried to take one brother as a human shield," he said, speaking of Islamic State, who ruled his village until last week.
"When he resisted they shot him dead. But another brother was also killed when he tried to prevent his death," said Ali, 20, who was told of this tragedy by his mother.
"And then another brother tried to hug the one who was shot and the same thing happened and they were all shot dead."
The jihadists didn't stop there. They also kidnapped his five sisters.
This happened near Mosul, the last city stronghold of Islamic State that Iraqi forces want to take back with air and ground support from a U.S.-led coalition.
Ali says he is a member of a tribal force that is supporting the government offensive on Mosul. His account confirms that Islamic State is resorting to the tactic dreaded most by the population, the attacking forces and humanitarian organizations: human shields.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein, on Friday said Islamic State militants had taken 550 families from villages around Mosul and were holding them near Islamic State locations in the city, probably as human shields.
Ali isn't spending much time these days thinking about  whether the Mosul offensive would rid the country of Islamic State and eventually create unity among Iraqis split along sectarian lines, mainly Sunni and Shi'ites.
"All I want to do is find people from Daesh and behead them," he said, using the Arabic acronym of Islamic State.
As he spoke, several veiled women told similar stories. Thaiban Sulaiman Ali recalled how her two brothers and two uncles and a total of ten people in her immediate family were taken hostage by Islamic State.
"Sixteen members of my extended family have been taken as human shields or hostages by Daesh," she said.
"And they also blew up some of our homes."
Hundreds of people who have gathered at the school in Qayyara, a town under government control 60 km (40 miles) from Mosul, were being vetted by Iraqi security officials in case some were Islamic State fighters posing as non-combatants.

SUSPECTS
Four such suspects were crouching down facing a wall with hands tied in plastic handcuffs behind their backs.
Others stood in the dirt and gravel trying to make sense of the chaos that has engulfed their lives.
Those who are cleared are taken to a camp for displaced persons about 20 minutes away by car.
Nearby is a sprawling abandoned building that local officials say was used as bomb factory by the militants who were in control of the region until August.
"Look around you at how many buildings they have blown up," said local official Sameer Mohammed.
Iraqi officials say the battle for Mosul could make or break Iraq depending on how the country's leaders manage sectarian tensions.
There are concerns the defeat of Islamic State, an ultra-hardline Sunni group, would cause new sectarian and ethnic violence, fueled by a desire to avenge atrocities inflicted on minority groups.
Nineveh is a mosaic of ethnic and religious groups - Arabs, Turkmen, Kurds, Yazidis, Christians, Sunnis, Shi'ites - with Sunni Arabs the overwhelming majority.
Amra Ali is an example of how Islamic State engaged in hostage taking and kidnapping even before the Mosul battle began on Monday.
The 30-year-old housewife was detained by Islamic State four months ago because her husband is a member of a Shi'ite militia that has led the fight against the group.
"They told me when I was jailed in a house that was converted to a prison that they would hold me until my husband gives himself up," said Ali who spent 40 days behind bars.
"When he didn't surrender they took me to one of their Islamic courts and they declared us divorced."
Kawthar Abdellatif, another housewife in her thirties, said even though Islamic State had left her village, al-Hudd, she does not want to return and will stay at the displaced persons camp.
"They can come back at any time and there are many bombs there," she said. "I hope our lives will be better after Mosul is captured."

ESEKA, Cameroon Fourteen people remained trapped on Friday under the wreckage of a packed passenger train that derailed en route between Cameroon's two largest cities, killing at least 55 and injuring 575, the government said in a communique read on state television.
The Camrail inter-city train was traveling from the capital, Yaounde, to the port city of Douala when the accident occurred around 11 a.m. local time (1000 GMT) near the train station in the town of Eseka, around 120 km (75 miles) west of the capital.
"There was a loud noise. I looked back and the wagons behind us left the rails and started rolling over and over. There was a lot of smoke," said a Reuters journalist traveling in a wagon near the front of the train.
Before its departure from Yaounde, he said that a railway employee said additional wagons had been added to the train to accommodate extra passengers, though it was unclear if that played a role in the accident.
The collapse of a section of the main highway between the capital and Douala had prompted increased numbers of passengers to undertake the journey by rail. The two incidents, which occurred on the same day, have now effectively cut the main transportation axis in the Central African country of over 22 million.
"There are the bodies of women, children. There are many," said one employee of Camrail, which is operated by France's Bollore, speaking from the scene of the accident. He said three of his colleagues were among the victims.
Joel Bineli, a passenger on the derailed train, told Reuters he saw dismembered bodies on the tracks at the accident site.
Social media users posted photos taken at the scene of the accident which showed several wagons overturned on a slope beside the rail line.
"Rescue workers arrived and they are pulling bodies from the wagon. I've already counted around 40 bodies they've removed," said Rachelle Paden, another passenger.
Camrail said it had sent teams to the site and the injured were being transported to a local hospital. Others were driven to Douala. It expressed its condolences to victims' families in a post on its official Facebook page.
A Bollore spokesman confirmed that an accident had occurred, but offered no further details.
Many rail lines in West and Central Africa have a reputation for poor maintenance and failing to respect safety norms. Derailments are relatively common.
Though Bollore is generally viewed as a reliable operator, it experienced another major incident last month when part of a bridge along a line it controls in Ivory Coast collapsed under the weight of a freight train.

SANAA Warring factions in the war in Yemen exchanged accusations on Friday of violating a 72-hour ceasefire that began just before midnight on Wednesday, with the Saudi-led coalition saying Houthi forces have breached the truce by attacking several cities in both countries.
The United Nations announced the ceasefire between the parties earlier in the week. It has the possibility for extension if it holds.
The Saudi-led coalition said in a statement on state news agency SPA that Iran-allied Houthi forces have used rockets, shells, and snipers to attack border cities inside Saudi Arabia in the Jizan and Nijran provinces.
It also accused the Houthis of launching attacks on the Yemeni capital, Sanaa, and other provinces such as Taiz, Hajja, Shabwa, Mareb and Aden.
The coalition said it had responded to the Houthi attacks "according to the engagement rules and continuing to exercise the highest self restraints towards the violations of the ceasefire."
The Houthi movement said the coalition struck a number of areas in the border district of Shad, causing damage to properties, according to the Houthi-allied Al-Maseera TV. It added that the Houthis responded to the attacks.
No casualties have been reported by either side.
Several previous ceasefires have failed to pave the way for an end to the conflict, although they have significantly slowed fighting in the war, which has killed at least 10,000 people.
Aid agencies hope to use the truce to reach parts of the country that have been cut off by months of fighting and are in dire humanitarian need.

MEXICO CITY Mexico has arrested a former police chief at the heart of an investigation into the disappearance and likely massacre of 43 trainee teachers in the southwestern city of Iguala two years ago, security officials said on Friday.
Felipe Flores was chief of police in Iguala when the students disappeared on the night of Sept. 26, 2014. He was one of the people most likely to know what happened to the students, according to experts on the case, which hugely embarrassed the government.
Flores, who had been a fugitive for two years, was arrested while visiting his wife in Iguala, national security commissioner Renato Sales told a news conference.
According to the government's initial findings, the 43 were abducted by corrupt police in Iguala and handed over to a drug cartel, which mistook them for members of a rival gang. Then, the government said, they were murdered, incinerated and ground up, and their remains dumped in a nearby river.
So far, the remains of only one of the 43 students have been definitively identified. The parents of the missing are still pressuring the government hard for answers.
A group of international experts who reviewed the evidence sharply criticized the government's version of events, helping to dent the credibility of President Enrique Pena Nieto.

PRETORIA South Africa said on Friday it was quitting the International Criminal Court (ICC) because membership conflicted with diplomatic immunity laws, dealing a new blow to the struggling court and angering the political opposition.
Pretoria last year announced its intention to leave after the ICC criticized it for disregarding an ICC order to arrest Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who is accused of genocide and war crimes, when he visited South Africa. Bashir has denied the accusations.
The United Nations on Friday confirmed receipt of South Africa's withdrawal from the ICC, which will take effect one year from Oct. 19, spokesman Stephane Dujarric said, making it the first country to quit the Rome Statute.
The instrument of withdrawal document, seen by Reuters on Thursday, has been assessed by the United Nations as bona fide and is being processed, Dujarric said.
The announcement puts new pressure on the world's first permanent war crimes court, which has had to fight off allegations of pursuing a neo-colonial agenda in Africa, where all but one of its 10 investigations have been based.
Burundi's leader this week signed a decree to leave the ICC, and Kenya's parliament is considering following suit.
U.S. State Department spokesman John Kirby said the United States was "concerned" about the South African decision, but he declined to speculate what Kenya and Burundi would do and said it was too early to speak of a "trend" toward African withdrawal from the court.
Kirby said the United States, while not a member of the court, believed the ICC had made "valuable contributions in the service of accountability ...and we hope that other countries would share that assessment."
Justice Minister Michael Masutha told reporters in Pretoria that the government would draft a bill to repeal its adoption of the ICC's Rome Statute to preserve its ability to conduct active diplomatic relations, and had given formal notice.
He said the statute conflicted with South Africa's Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, which was cited in the decision to ignore the court order to detain Bashir, but that the government remained committed to the fight against impunity.
The ICC said it had not formally been notified of South Africa's intention to leave the Rome Statute.
A document seen by Reuters at the United Nations on Thursday showed the move would take effect one year after notice was formally received by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
The document was signed by South African International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and dated Oct. 19.

"UNCONSTITUTIONAL" WITHDRAWAL
James Selfe, a senior executive at the main opposition Democratic Alliance, said it would file a court application on Friday to set aside the plans "on the grounds that it is unconstitutional, irrational and procedurally flawed".
Former South African judge Richard Goldstone, a respected figure in international justice and former chief prosecutor at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, said quitting the ICC was "demeaning" to the country.
"From a moral standpoint, it detracts from the inspiring legacy of the administration of President Nelson Mandela that so strongly supported the ICC," said Goldstone, chairman of the advisory board of the coalition for the ICC, which provides strategic guidance on key issues.
Masutha, the justice minister, said Pretoria would drop its appeal to the Constitutional Court against a ruling that the state had made an error in letting Bashir leave the country.
In June 2015 Bashir was in Johannesburg for an African Union summit. He was allowed to leave even though the ICC had ordered that he be kept in South Africa until the end of a hearing on whether he should be detained under a global arrest warrant.
The High Court ruled Bashir should have been arrested to face genocide charges at the ICC since, as a signatory of the Rome Statute, Pretoria was obliged to implement arrest warrants.
The government lost an appeal at the Supreme Court in March and the appeal to the Constitutional Court was its last chance of overturning the ruling.
The ICC, which sits in The Hague and has 124 member states, is the first legal body with permanent international jurisdiction to prosecute genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
But it has secured only five substantive verdicts in its 14-year history, all of them on African suspects, and several African countries have expressed concern that the continent is being picked on.
In January, the African Union backed a proposal by Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta for officials of various member states to "develop a road map" on possible withdrawal from the Rome Statute. The decision was not legally binding as the final decision to leave the ICC would be taken by individual nations.
A high-profile ICC attempt to try Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto over post-election violence failed amid diplomatic lobbying and allegations of witness intimidation.
Adan Duale, leader of the majority in the Kenyan parliament, said impetus was building there to pass a bill on quitting the ICC that has been slowly making its way through the assembly.

LONDON London City airport was declared safe on Friday after hundreds of passengers had to be evacuated and two were taken to hospital with breathing difficulties in an incident that police suspect was caused by CS gas.
The airport was briefly closed as police and firefighters in protective equipment swept the terminal building of the airport with chemical detectors after several people were taken ill, some of them coughing violently.
"Two complete sweeps of the airport building were carried out jointly by firefighters and police officers ..," the fire brigade said. "No elevated readings were found and the building was ventilated, searched and declared safe."
Later, police said the incident may have been caused by CS gas, used for self-defense and crowd control.
"A search of the airport led to the discovery of what is believed to be a CS gas or spray. Whilst the cause of the incident has not yet been confirmed, officers are investigating if it was the result of an accidental discharge of this canister," police said in a statement.
"At this early stage, officers are investigating whether it may have been discarded by a passenger prior to check-in. There have been no arrest and inquiries continue," the statement said.
The airport later said it had reopened but that flights would be staggered and some disruption was expected.
Ambulance teams trained in dealing with hazardous substances raced to the airport at around 1500 GMT.
Medics said they treated 27 people for breathing difficulties at the airport itself and took two to hospital.
Among those caught up in the incident was boxer David Haye who Tweeted: "CityAirport got evacuated when everyone started coughing uncontrollably!"
The fire brigade said about 500 people had been evacuated from the terminal of the airport east of London's Canary Wharf financial district, which mostly serves short-haul, European destinations.
Photos posted on social media showed many passengers milling around on the tarmac, some sheltering from the rain under the wings of parked planes.
The incident came shortly after police said on Friday they had arrested a teenager under terrorism laws following the discovery of a "suspicious item" on a London underground train near Canary Wharf.
Officers discharged a stun gun during the arrest of the 19-year-old in north London who was detained on suspicion of preparing terrorism acts.
The suspect item, which is still being forensically examined, was found by staff on Thursday morning on a train at North Greenwich station in east London near Canary Wharf and close to the O2 music venue.
The station was evacuated and bomb squad officers carried out a controlled explosion to make the item safe. The investigation into the incident is being led by London's Counter Terrorism Command.

WASHINGTON The U.S. military killed eight al Qaeda-affiliated militants in two strikes in Yemen this month, U.S. Central Command said in a statement on Friday.
Two militants associated with al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) were killed in a strike on Oct. 6 in a remote area of the Shabwa Governorate and six AQAP militants were killed in a strike on Oct. 18, also in Shabwa, Centcom said.
The statement did not say how the strikes were carried out.



ROME The crew of a speedboat labeled "Libyan Coast Guard" attacked a migrant boat packed with some 150 migrants, beating them with sticks and causing many to fall into the water and at least four to drown, humanitarian group Sea-Watch said on Friday.
Rescuers recovered three more dead bodies on a different rubber boat and picked up a total 3,300 survivors from 24 different boats during the day, Italy's coast guard said.
Germany-based Sea-Watch, one of several non-governmental organizations operating vessels off the coast of Libya, said the speedboat swooped in just as they were about to go to the aid of the overcrowded rubber boat in the early hours of Friday.
"The violent intervention of the Libyan Coast Guard caused a situation of mass panic on board the rubber boat in distress," Sea-Watch said in a statement. "One tube of the rubber boat collapsed, causing the majority of the 150 people to slip into the water."
The Sea-Watch crew recovered four bodies, spokesman Ruben Neugebauer told Reuters. They brought about 120 others safely onto their ship and transferred them to an oil tanker from which they were later moved to another rescue ship bound for Italy.
Four people found unconscious were given rehydration treatment and recovered enough to stand later in the day, although they still needed help to walk, Neugebauer said.
A spokesman for Libya's naval forces in Tripoli said he had not heard about the incident. A spokesman for the EU's anti-smuggling mission Sophia said they had no information about it.
An Italian coast guard spokesman said the rescues and fatalities it counted on Friday included those reported by Sea Watch. Most of the people rescued were from sub-Saharan Africa and had set off from Libya, the spokesman said.
Italy has taken in more than 146,000 boat migrants so far this year and arrivals are set to top 153,000 counted last year. Friday's rescues take the total since Sunday to about 5,500.
The rescues were carried out by the Italian coast guard, the Sophia operation, an Irish navy ship, a merchant ship, Sea Watch and four other humanitarian groups.

LIBYAN COAST GUARD TO BE TRAINED
It was not immediately clear if the incident would affect the planned start of training next week of up to 100 Libyan coast guard members as part of the EU mission Operation Sophia. The spokesman for Sophia had no immediate comment.
The U.S. military, which also operates ships in the region, had no immediate comment on the incident.
"Next week training starts with the Libyan coast guard," Neugebauer said. "We think it's quite important to think about with whom we are collaborating."
According to information the German government has provided to parliament, the first session of training is to take place on two ships – one Italian and one Dutch - off the coast of Libya, with equipment and trainers provided by Germany, Italy, Greece, Belgium and Britain.
The Libyan coast guard currently has three boats in Tripoli, three boats in Misrata and two boats in Zuwarah, according to the German government report. The German military said it had no information about the incident.
In August, another humanitarian group that operates rescue ships off the coast of Libya, Doctors Without Borders, said it had been attacked and boarded by armed men on a Libyan navy boat. The Libyan navy said it fired "warning shots" because it thought the ship was involved in people smuggling.

BRUSSELS Prime Minister Theresa May said on Friday Britain's negotiations to leave the European Union would take time and that she was ready for some "difficult moments", but would fight to remain part of the bloc's single market.
At her first European Council since becoming prime minister after Britain voted to leave the bloc in June, May made clear that she hoped that some of the most complicated talks London has ever undertaken will be held in a constructive manner.
"Obviously we've got negotiations ahead of ourselves. Those negotiations will take time, as I say, there will be some difficult moments, we are going to need some give and take," she told a news conference.
Having earlier provoked concern among investors, businesses and in EU capitals that she was heading for a "hard Brexit", or clear break with the single market, to control immigration, May moved to ease concerns. She said she wanted the best trade deal possible.
The former interior minister also reiterated that she wanted a bespoke deal for Britain as it leaves the European Union.
"We are not looking to adopt another model that somebody else has in relation to their trade with the European Union. What we want is to develop what is a new relationship for the UK with the EU," she said.
"We want to have the best possible deal for trade in goods and services with, and operation within, the single European market," she said.
The term "operate within" the single market is a new incantation for May, who since becoming prime minister has been focused first on shoring up support in her ruling Conservative Party before launching the negotiations with the EU.
Envisioned as a single territory without any internal borders or regulatory obstacles to the free movement of goods and services, the EU single market accounts for 500 million consumers and 21 million small and medium-sized companies.
After sterling fell on fears that Britain was heading for a "hard Brexit", May, and some of her more euroskeptic ministers, have worked hard to reassure business and EU leaders that her policies will not hurt the economy.

LONDON London's fire brigade is leading the emergency response to an incident at London City airport on Friday which led to hundreds of passengers being evacuated and two taken to hospital with breathing difficulties, police said.
"At this stage we are there in support of the London Fire Brigade," a police spokesman said.
Asked if the incident was considered as potentially terrorism-related, the spokesman said the cause was unknown but that firefighters were leading the response.

YANGON Muslim residents and rights activists say a military operation in northwestern Myanmar has killed more people than official reports have acknowledged, as a fresh bout of ethnic unrest threatens to undermine the country's fledgling peace process.
The government, led by Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, has said the army and police in Rakhine State are fighting a group of at least 400 insurgents, drawn from the Rohingya Muslim minority, with links to Islamist militants overseas.
While officials say the army has been conducting carefully targeted sweeps against the group behind attacks on police border posts on Oct. 9, residents who spoke to Reuters accused security forces of killing non-combatants and burning homes.
With the area around Maungdaw Township, near the border with Bangladesh, under military lockdown it was not possible to independently verify either side's version of events.
The violence has destabilized Myanmar's most volatile state, where the relations between the Rohingya and majority Buddhists are at their lowest point since hundreds of people were killed and thousands displaced in ethnic violence in 2012.
Delicate efforts to rebuild fragile intercommunal ties since then have been shattered, marking a massive setback for the No.1 goal of Suu Kyi's government - securing a lasting peace and unifying the country.
In videos posted online, armed men speaking the Rohingya language have claimed responsibility for the coordinated attacks on Oct. 9 that ignited the region, where Rohingya face severe restrictions on their movement and access to basic services.

DEADLY CLASHES
State-run media have reported that 30 "attackers" have been killed by security forces since Oct. 9, including two women reported to have been armed with swords.
But Reuters interviews with six residents and community leaders in Maungdaw Township - as well as diplomats in Yangon and rights groups - paint a different picture.
"Clearly there are more than 30 killed," said Chris Lewa of the Arakan Project, a monitoring group that says it has drawn information from a network of sources throughout Maungdaw Township. "And many of them are civilians, not attackers."
Lewa said the army was using "typical counter-insurgency measures against civilians", including "shooting civilians on sight, burning homes, looting property and arbitrary arrests".
Ye Naing, a director at the Ministry of Information, said the official reports coming out of Maungdaw could be trusted.
"The current operation is not blind searching. The military has the information from interrogations, so the target is very clear and the scope of the operation is narrow," he said.
The military did not respond to requests for comment.

OPERATION ZONE
Foreign reporters have not been allowed into the area the military has declared an "operation zone", but Reuters was able to contact some residents and community leaders by telephone.
The people, who did not want to be identified, contradicted several of the reports in state media, saying that the death toll in the area was higher than reported and that a number of those killed were unarmed.
In one of the disputed accounts, the state-run Myanma Alinn newspaper said 30 Muslims attacked government forces on Oct. 11 near Kyetyoepyin village, and that 10 Rohingyas were killed in the subsequent fighting. After the clash, the insurgents fled, setting fire to homes, the report said.
But several Rohingya residents from the area said they believed at least 19 people, including eight women, were killed by security forces that day. They also say it was the soldiers who set a large part of the village on fire.
The United Nations has said the violence is preventing aid agencies from delivering food and medicines to the region.
The conflict underlines the power the army retains in Myanmar, which was ruled for decades by a junta, despite the democratic reforms that brought Suu Kyi to power this year.
Suu Kyi has urged the military to use restraint and act in accordance with the law, but day-to-day handling of the crisis is in the hands of the home affairs minister, who, like the heads of two other security ministries, is a general appointed by the military.
Though feted abroad as a champion of democracy, Suu Kyi has also faced international criticism for not doing enough to ease the plight of around 1.1 million Rohingya living in Rakhine, most of whom are denied Myanmar citizenship.
A commission on solving the Rakhine quagmire led by former U.N. chief Kofi Annan and appointed by Suu Kyi in August was in Myanmar this week, but would not travel to the troubled state, officials said.
The government has blamed the violence on a little known Islamist group it says has links to the Pakistani Taliban.
But Suu Kyi said during a trip to India this week that the government's initial statement may have been based on unreliable sources, underlining how the sudden upsurge in violence has taken it by surprise.
Diplomats believe that the group's outside support is largely limited to the Rohingya diaspora, many of whom live in Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, rather than established Islamist militant groups.
The initial attacks, in which three border police outposts were overrun by hundreds of people, most only lightly armed, showed a degree of sophistication not seen before in violence involving the Rohingya, but did not suggest the group was especially well-funded or armed, diplomats said.

BEIRUT At least 90 Turkish rockets pounded a group of Kurdish fighters allied to a U.S.-backed militia in northern Syria on Friday, as clashes intensified between two sides both supposed to be fighting Islamic State, a monitor and militia spokesperson said.
The confrontation between Turkey-backed Syrian rebels and Kurdish fighters allied to a U.S.-backed militia fighting Islamic State is escalating as both sides race to be the first to expel Islamic State from the northern Syrian city of al-Bab.
On Wednesday the heaviest Turkish air strikes so far on the Kurdish fighters hit villages recently captured from Islamic State by the Kurdish fighters, highlighting the conflicting agendas of NATO members Ankara and Washington in an increasingly complex battlefield
The United States has backed the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in their fight against Islamic State, infuriating Ankara, which sees the umbrella group's dominant YPG militia as an extension of Kurdish PKK militants who have waged a three-decade insurgency in southeastern Turkey.
Turkey, a major backer of the insurgency against President Bashar al-Assad, entered the Syrian conflict in August, using its armor and air power to help Free Syrian Army rebel groups take territory near the border held by Islamic State.
But it fears the YPG will try to connect three de facto autonomous Kurdish cantons that have emerged during the five-year war to create a Kurdish-run enclave in northern Syria, stoking the separatist ambitions of Kurds on its own soil.
Its intervention therefore also aimed to prevent Kurdish forces from gaining more ground.
An adviser to the Turkey-backed FSA alliance who gave his name as Osama Abu Zayd told Reuters Friday's clashes were fierce and were widening as they try to push the Kurdish fighters out of the northern Aleppo countryside.
"Two days ago the (Kurdish fighters) tried to exploit our battle against Daesh (Islamic State) to advance towards Marea", he said. Marea is a town in Turkey-backed rebel territory on the way to al-Bab.
"What is happening today is a natural response to these separatist groups," Abu Zayd said.
Ahmad Araj, a political representative for the Kurdish fighters allied to the U.S.-backed SDF militia told Reuters their fighters were now under attack both from Islamic State and from Turkey.
He said more than 150 rockets on Friday hit areas they had pushed Islamic State out of this week.
"Today at 10 am Turkish shelling began ... there was an attack and the clashes have continued since morning," he said. "Their rockets are not targeting Islamic State, rather they are targeting our forces in areas liberated (from Islamic State)."
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said more than 90 rockets fired by Turkish forces hit the town of Sheikh Issa and other areas along the frontline between territory held by the two sides in northern Aleppo province on Friday.
Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Friday Turkey's activities in Syria are aimed at destroying terrorist organizations and securing its border, and it discusses all of its operations with coalition partners.

PARIS France will start removing migrants on Monday from a squalid north-coast camp known as the Jungle and expects to dismantle it in the space of a week, an interior ministry official said on Friday.
The ramshackle camp at Calais houses thousands of migrants and refugees attempting to make it to Britain, which bars most of them on the basis of EU rules requiring them to seek asylum in the first European country they set foot in.
"It is an operation that carries risk," the official said in a briefing to reporters, describing the plan to remove the 6,486 migrants from countries such as Syria, Afghanistan and Eritrea and distribute them to centers across France.
With its improvised shacks and poor sanitation, the Jungle has become a symbol of Europe's failure to solve the migration crisis and a sore point in relations between Britain and France.
Announcing its planned closure last month, President Francois Hollande described the situation there as "unacceptable". A French court this week dismissed a legal challenge by charities who had sought more time to come up with alternative housing.
The ministry official said migrants will have to present themselves at a giant hangar where they will be separated into families, adults, unaccompanied minors and vulnerable individuals, including elderly people and single women.
They will then be bused to a network of 450 reception centers across the country, where they will receive medical checks and, if they have not already done so, decide whether to apply for asylum.

RISK OF ARREST
Some 1,250 police and gendarmes will oversee the operation, and any migrants who refuse to move on risk being arrested, the official said.
She said France and Britain were advancing in negotiations over the fate of 1,300 unaccompanied children and youths in the camp. Britain has prioritized allowing entry to those with family ties in the UK, and this week allowed a small group of mostly Afghan teenagers to join relatives already in the country.
But France wants Britain to go further and honor a commitment it made to helping vulnerable child migrants in Europe.
"We're making progress," the official said. "We hope that there is a significant effort to complete all the family reunifications, and to go further."
Tensions between the two countries are increasing over the future of border security as Britain prepares to leave the European Union.
French conservative Alain Juppe told The Guardian in an interview that he would scrap an agreement allowing British officials to check passports in France and vice-versa - a step that would make it easier for asylum-seekers to cross the Channel and force Britain to deal with them on its own soil.
"We cannot accept making the selection on French territory of people that Britain does or doesn't want. It's up to Britain to do that job," he was quoted as saying.
The image of the Jungle was "disastrous for our country and there are also extremely serious economic and security consequences for the people of Calais", said Juppe, the front-runner in next year's presidential election.

MOSCOW On a Friday evening in June, German businessman Yuri Zyudheimer and Russian regional governor Nikita Belykh sat down in a private booth in Megu, an upscale Japanese restaurant in central Moscow.
Zyudheimer placed a dark red plastic bag on the table between the two men, according to the businessman. Inside was a bottle of red wine – a gift for Belykh's recent 41st birthday – and 150,000 euros ($165,000) in cash.
Zyudheimer said he had second thoughts about what he was about to do. "I wanted to say to him: 'Don't do it, don't take it,'" he told Reuters in his first public comments on the case. But he pushed the bag toward Belykh anyway.
The governor, who was supported by the ruling United Russia party but not a member of it, checked the contents of the bag. When he got up to leave, plain clothes officers from the Federal Security Service – in the restaurant pretending to be diners – swooped.
The security service and Zyudheimer had planned the trap, painting the banknotes with a red dye which was now on Belykh's hands. By that evening, the governor was in jail. State prosecutors charged him with receiving bribes totaling 400,000 euros in return for favorable treatment of a company owned by Zyudheimer.
Under Russian law it is illegal for a government official to "use their official powers for election campaigning." But the practice still goes on, with money channeled through slush funds, said Stanislav Andreichyk, head of the regional office of Transparency International, an anti-corruption watchdog.
Faced with a sharp economic slowdown, Russian voters' enthusiasm for the ruling elite is softening. But the Kremlin and United Russia still have to maintain a powerful appeal or lose their legitimacy. Setting up election slush funds is one of the ways it does this, according to four people who spoke with Reuters. The funds funnel money from businessmen to local United Russia officials. The party spends it on campaigning and on public works and infrastructure in the run-up to an election, said multiple people with knowledge of the process, including one former state official.
"It's common practice," said Andrei Kolyadin, who until 2011 was head of the regional politics department in the presidential administration and who has worked on election projects linked to the Kremlin since then.  
Belykh has denied the charges against him. Under questioning by state investigators after his detention, he said the money from Zyudheimer was not a bribe but to pay for "beautification projects," according to a transcript of the interview seen by Reuters.
Belykh would not comment for this story.
According to three people who know him, the governor left himself vulnerable to the bribery charges because he was involved in accumulating money for a slush fund designed to help improve the chances of United Russia, which was founded by President Vladimr Putin. The sting came just three months before a parliamentary election.
The three sources said senior ruling party officials had pushed Belykh to raise the money. Four other sources said Belykh had tapped entrepreneurs for money that was used to finance local infrastructure projects designed to woo voters. Those same sources said that Belykh's mistake was to accept the money directly himself, rather than have it deposited into the slush fund.
Reuters has found two other cases in which allegations of United Russia election slush funds have surfaced, one in Ulyanovsk and the other in Chelyabinsk.
A Kremlin spokesman said Belykh was arrested for receiving a bribe, but did not comment on the broader issue of election slush funds.
United Russia headquarters and regional party officials initially did not respond to Reuters questions. In a statement sent to Reuters after publication, Konstantin Mazurevsky, deputy head of United Russia's central election commission, said all fund raising was carried out in accordance with Russian law.
"This information (allegations about slush funds in regional elections) does not correspond with reality," he said.
The Federal Security Service, the FSB, did not respond to questions.
Putin critics who know Belykh say the governor was vulnerable to prosecution because he was an outsider to the Kremlin system: a former opposition figure with liberal economic views at odds with many of the security hawks in Putin's entourage. While in opposition, he had also criticized Moscow's 2008 military invasion of Georgia.
"The reason for the conflict with Belykh was political," said Ilya Yashin, a former opposition colleague.
After Belykh's party dissolved itself, the Kremlin nominated him for the post of governor of the Kirov region, a provincial backwater in the foothills of the Ural mountains about 1,000 km (620 miles) east of Moscow.
The idea, said several people who know Belykh or were close to the Kremlin, was to silence the politician by bringing him into the ruling fold.

UNPAID DEBTS
One of the largest employers in the Kirov region is a timber company called Novovyatsky Ski Combine, known as NLK. Russian state lender Sberbank had made a series of loans to NLK's former owner Albert Laritsky. The loans turned bad and the company ended up in the hands of Zyudheimer, Belykh's dining companion in the Japanese restaurant.
Zyudheimer told Reuters that governor Belykh pressured his company to repay one of the loans to Sberbank, for which the Kirov region had put up its own assets as collateral. Zyudheimer argued he was not liable for the loan because it had been taken out by the previous owner. There is no suggestion that either Belykh or Zyudheimer did anything illegal in connection to the loan.
Zyudheimer said Belykh also demanded money for his re-election as governor in 2014. In return, Zyudheimer said, Belykh promised to provide financial help for the timber firm.
Zyudheimer alleges that he personally gave Belykh a 200,000 euro bribe in 2014, and another 50,000 euros via an unidentified intermediary in Moscow in May 2016.
Zyudeheimer says help for the timber producer never materialized, but that Belykh asked him for another 150,000 euros at the end of May this year "for elections." At the time, the closest vote was the parliamentary election in September.
That was when he decided to turn Belykh into Russia's FSB security service in Moscow, Zyudheimer said.
"I had no choice," Zyudheimer said. "I understood that this rampage will never end, so I went to the FSB."
Zyudheimer said he gave a written statement to an FSB duty officer. "To begin with, he (the duty officer) didn't believe his eyes. Then he rang upstairs to someone, and an excited crowd of generals... arrived at the duty officer's post," Zyudheimer said.
A few weeks later, he said, security service officers set up the restaurant sting.

BEAUTIFICATION PROJECTS
At a preliminary hearing on Sept. 7, Belykh told a judge that it was "important for me that my reputation as an honest person is vindicated."
According to transcripts of interviews with investigators, Belykh said the projects that needed funding included construction work in the Kirov region. The three sources in Belykh's entourage told Reuters that the projects were aimed at boosting support for United Russia. 
Commenting on Belykh's case, Nikolai Petrov, a specialist in regional politics at Moscow's Higher Economic School, said the scheme was simple: local officials – many of them members of United Russia – get credit for projects come election time.
"For them (party bosses) it's important to create some kind of positive atmosphere before the vote," he said.
The three sources in Belykh's inner circle said the governor owed United Russia for its help in winning Belykh re-election as governor in 2014.
"One of the criteria for judging a governor in his region is the level of support for the ruling party," said Dmitry Russkikh, who was an opposition member of the Kirov region legislative assembly until the end of 2015. "If the governor does not get the required result for United Russia, that will be remembered."
Oleg Valenchuk, head of United Russia in Kirov, did not respond to requests for comment.

SLUSH FUNDS
Kolyadin, the former Kremlin official, said the use of such election slush funds is widespread in Russia.
In some cases, he said, cash collected in a fund was spent directly on financing a United Russia election campaign. Other times, it was spent on local infrastructure projects in the run up to elections.
"It's a clear objective ...that the governor is set, and local party officials demand the accumulation of financial resources," he said.
Reuters found two other such cases that have led to charges.
In May this year, Alsu Balakisheva, a United Russia member and deputy speaker of the regional legislature in the Ulyanovsk region, on the Volga, was arrested on charges of accepting a 500,000 rouble ($8,000) bribe from a local construction firm. She denied the charges.
In court, she said the money was intended for the Ulyanovsk Fund to Support Regional Cooperation and Development, which she headed. Although the fund was created to support social projects, it contributed 1.971 million rubles ($32,000) to candidates running on a United Russia ticket in local elections in 2015, according to election commission records.
Balakisheva's lawyer said his client was under house arrest but declined to comment on the case. United Russia officials in Ulyanovsk region did not respond to questions.
In the other case, former first deputy governor of the industrial Chelyabinsk region, Nikolai Sandakov, awaits trial on charges of accepting a 1.9 million rouble ($30,000) bribe.
"Nikolai said repeatedly in court that this money was a United Russia slush fund," Sandakov's lawyer, Kirill Akulich, told Reuters. He denies the charges.
The money was spent on campaign literature for United Russia candidates, on opinion polling, and on campaign events, the lawyer said.
United Russia officials in Chelyabinsk region did not respond to requests for comment.

FUND-RAISING DRIVE
Belykh launched his fund-raising drive on April 21 this year at the "Vyatka" banqueting hall. In a speech, the governor urged more than 100 local entrepreneurs to help pay for projects including a youth holiday camp in Crimea, a monument to war-time workers, street repairs and renovations to Kirov's Spassky cathedral.
Belykh said contributions should go to a non-governmental fund called "Vyatka," according to seven people present. He also said the fund needed 100 million rubles ($1.54 million).
"The governor ... called on us to give money to improve the image of our native region," said one of those present.
By June, though, the fund had raised just 3 million rubles.
"To repair the street fronts alone we needed 20 million, plus 10 million for some park fountains, and it wasn't clear where we were going to get the money," Andrei Usenko, the fund's director, said.
According to Usenko, Belykh was unflustered: "'Don't worry,'" Usenko recalled him saying. "'By the end of June the money will be in the account.'"
Three days later, the governor sat down for dinner in the Japanese restaurant.

OUAGADOUGOU Security forces in Burkina Faso foiled a coup attempt planned for earlier this month by about 30 ex-members of the elite presidential guard, known as the RSP, Interior Minister Simon Compaore said on Friday.
Compaore said the coup, which was scheduled to take place at midnight on Oct. 8, included a planned attack on the presidential residence, as well as on army barracks and a prison in the capital, Ouagadougou.
"Investigators from the judicial police discovered the ongoing preparation of a vast conspiracy aimed to destabilize the institutions of the republic and the seizure of power by force of arms," he said.
Security forces initially clashed with the coup leaders on Oct. 8, when four former RSP members were stopped by police as they returned from a "neighboring country". Two were killed in the confrontation that ensued.
Nineteen people have been arrested for trying to overthrow President Roch Marc Christian Kabore and his government. An investigation into the coup attempt is ongoing, Compaore said.
The coup attempt - led by an ex-RSP member called Gaston Coulibaly, Compaore said - marks the latest threat to Burkina Faso's fragile security. In September last year, RSP soldiers loyal to a former president, Blaise Compaore - who is not related to the interior minister - mounted a six-day putsch attempt in which members of the cabinet were taken hostage.
The RSP was a pillar of Compaore's rule before he was ousted by demonstrators in 2014 when he attempted to change the constitution to prolong his 27 years in office.

GENEVA The U.N. Human Rights Council said on Friday it would identify the perpetrators of war crimes in the besieged Syrian city of Aleppo and launched a special inquiry into the use of starvation and air strikes there, as well as increased "terrorist" attacks.
Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, had earlier called for major powers to put aside their differences and refer the situation in eastern Aleppo to the International Criminal Court.
He said that the siege and bombing there constituted "crimes of historic proportions" that have caused heavy civilian casualties amounting to war crimes.
Zeid did not name Russia or the Syrian air force, whose jets have attacked the rebel-held districts of Aleppo for weeks, but his reference was clear.
"Armed opposition groups continue to fire mortars and other projectiles into civilian neighborhoods of western Aleppo, but indiscriminate air strikes across the eastern part of the city by government forces and their allies are responsible for the overwhelming majority of civilian casualties," he said in a speech to a special session of the U.N. Human Rights Council.
Such violations constituted war crimes and if there was intent to commit them as part of a widespread or systematic attack against civilians, they would amount to crimes against humanity, he said.
"The violations and abuses suffered by people across the country, including the siege and bombardment of eastern Aleppo, are simply not tragedies; they also constitute crimes of historic proportions," Zeid told the Geneva session.
Britain's resolution to launch the inquiry was adopted by 24 states in favor with 7 against, including Russia and China, and 16 abstentions. The investigation, to be conducted by an existing U.N. commission of inquiry on Syria led by Paulo Pinheiro, is to issue its findings by March.
John Fisher of Human Rights Watch said the "decisive action" had "sent a clear message that illegal attacks on civilians must end and that those responsible will be held to account".
Russia has denied any deliberate targeting of civilians and says it is combating terrorists.
"These are the worst terrorists humanity has ever known. Nusra is not different from Daesh, it is the same wahhabi extreme fanaticism, they only believe in killing," Syria's ambassador Hussam Aala told Reuters.
"This is the reality we face on the ground," he said.

CEASEFIRE
Russia and Syria said that their forces were observing an 11-hour truce in Aleppo to allow evacuation of the wounded and for civilians to leave.
Britain's junior Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood told reporters that the Russian pause was "being used simply for them to regroup and further their own stranglehold over Aleppo".
Referring to the air strikes, he said: "This is shameful and it is not the action or leadership that we expect from a P5 (permanent member of the U.N. Security Council) nation."
Ted Allegra, deputy U.S. ambassador, said the Russian and Syrian assault had killed 400 people, including 100 children.
"These shocking acts in Aleppo beg for an appropriate investigation and those who commit them must be held accountable," he said.
Russian Ambassador Alexey Borodavkin accused Britain and its allies of "trying to save terrorists from being the target of strikes, allowing them to regroup and continue their barbaric acts".
An 11-hour unilateral ceasefire in Aleppo was "allowing civilians and those fighters who lay down their weapons to leave" the city, he said.

JOHANNESBURG South Africa's new anti-graft watchdog will not oppose President Jacob Zuma's court bid to delay the release of a report into allegations of political interference by the wealthy Gupta brothers, eNCA TV said, citing court documents.
Indian-born businessmen Ajay, Atul and Rajesh Gupta are the subject of an official investigation into allegations that they have had undue influence over Zuma.
The report, by the outgoing Public Protector, a constitutionally-mandated anti-graft official, was prevented from being made public last Friday by Zuma's application to the High Court to delay its release. Zuma has denied granting undue influence to the Guptas and they have denied seeking it.
Zuma's critics have voiced concern that a delay in the report could lead to a watering-down of its conclusions.
The television station quoted Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane as saying in court papers that it was up to the court to decide whether the report can be released.
Oupa Segalwe, a spokesman at the Public Protector, said he could not immediately confirm the report.
The court was due to hear Zuma's case on Nov. 1 before the report can be released. Zuma applied for that order last week on the grounds that he had not had the chance to question witnesses and review any evidence that implicated him.
Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen also filed a court application to block the release of the report. Both cases are due to be heard on Nov. 1.
Madonsela said in June she would investigate whether or not Zuma unlawfully allowed the Gupta family to choose ministers and other occupants of high office.
Opposition parties have called for Zuma's resignation over his links with the Guptas and top members of the ruling African National Congress have condemned what they call "state capture" by private interests, without naming the president.

ANKARA Turkey and Iraq have reached an agreement in principle that could eventually allow a Turkish role in the campaign to retake Mosul from Islamic State, U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said on Friday after talks with President Tayyip Erdogan.
Erdogan has previously voiced frustration that NATO member Turkey has not been more involved in the U.S.-backed assault on the Iraqi city, once part of the Ottoman empire and still seen by Turkey as firmly within its sphere of influence.
Iraq, meanwhile, views Turkish military moves on its territory with apprehension, and any agreement on Mosul would defuse a major source of tension between the neighbors.
Carter made clear that details on Turkey's potential role in the unfolding Mosul campaign still needed to be hammered out and a senior U.S. defense official noted non-military assistance was also a possibility.
"That will have to obviously be something that the Iraqi government will need to agree to and I think there's agreement there in principle," Carter told reporters traveling with him in Turkey, voicing his own conditional support for some type of Turkish role in Iraq.
"But now we're down to the practicalities of that ... and that's what we're working through."
Turkey has been locked in a row with Iraq's central government over the presence of Turkish troops at the Bashiqa camp near Mosul, where it has trained thousands of forces.
Erdogan has warned of sectarian bloodshed if the Iraqi army relies on Shi'ite militia fighters to retake the largely Sunni city of Mosul.
Turkish Defence Minister Fikri Isik, who met Carter, also said there was agreement in principle on Turkish involvement in "determining the future of Mosul" and that he had agreed with his U.S. counterpart on the need for the three countries to work together to reduce tensions between Ankara and Baghdad.
"We will work jointly on Turkey's participation in the Mosul campaign and on Turkey being at the table in the process after that," Fikri said in an interview on state broadcaster TRT.

"LEGITIMATE CONCERNS"
Carter also met Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, who said earlier this week that Turkish jets would be deployed at some point in the offensive to retake Mosul, the last big stronghold held by Islamic State in Iraq.
The push to capture it is expected to become the biggest battle in Iraq since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. Mosul is around five times the size of any other city Islamic State has held.
The senior U.S. defense official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the United States recognized that Turkey had legitimate security concerns over the outcome of the Mosul campaign and expressed hope that Turkish and Iraq officials could meet next week.
The United States was also raising the issue of a Turkish role in Mosul in its regular talks with Iraqi leadership.
"We will talk about, in an aspirational way, some of the things that the Turks could do," the U.S. official told reporters traveling with Carter, noting the possibility of non-military support, including medical and humanitarian assistance.
Even once questions about Mosul are resolved, the United States and Turkey still have major hurdles to overcome in their joint approach to battling Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
Turkey has been angered by Washington's support for Kurdish militia fighters battling Islamic State in Syria.
The United States sees the Syrian Kurdish YPG as a useful ally in the fight against the jihadists. But Turkey views them as a hostile force, an extension of Kurdish militants who have waged a three-decade insurgency on its own soil.


WASHINGTON The White House confirmed on Friday that a U.S. Navy warship
sailed near islands claimed by China in the South China Sea and said the operation was meant to uphold nations' rights to navigation under international law.
"This operation demonstrated that coastal states may not unlawfully restrict the navigation rights, freedoms and lawful uses of the sea that the United States and all states are entitled to exercise under international law," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said at a news briefing.

BRUSSELS The European Union's lead Brexit negotiator would like British and EU officials to work in French rather than English during the divorce talks, an EU official familiar with Brussels' Brexit task force told Reuters on Friday.
After the report caused waves during British Prime Minister Theresa May's first EU summit in Brussels, Michel Barnier took to Twitter to deny - in English - having expressed such a view. However, he noted that language rules would be agreed by negotiators only once May launches the formal Brexit process next year.
The source told Reuters that people working with the former French foreign minister understood he would prefer his native tongue. "Barnier wants French to be the working language in Brexit negotiations with Britain," the EU official said.
Barnier, whose nationality and track record as an EU regulator overseeing the City of London financial center has raised hackles in Britain, said no decision had been made yet.
"Never expressed myself on negotiation language. Work as often in English as French. Linguistic regime to be set at start; to be agreed between negotiators," he said on Twitter.
An EU spokeswoman said: "This will be agreed upon at the beginning of the negotiations - after receiving the Article 50 notification - and in common agreement with the negotiators."
Asked about the negotiating language, May told reporters: "We will conduct the negotiations in the way that is going to make sure that we get the right deal for the United Kingdom."
Using French would mark a shift away from standard practice among multinational teams in Brussels, where French lost its status to English as the EU's main working language after northern and eastern states joined in the past two decades.
Even officials from the EU's founding powers France and Germany now communicate with each other mainly in English.

SIGNAL
It would also send a signal to London that the EU plans to put its own interests first in negotiating divorce talks that the prime minister has promised to launch by the end of March.
Barnier's boss, former Luxembourg premier and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who met May over lunch on Friday, has said the EU must be "intransigent" in defending its principles during the talks.
Most British diplomats in Brussels are fluent in French but ministers and Whitehall officials largely share with fellow Britons the distinction of being among the poorest linguists in Europe.
Barnier's task force, currently numbering 15 staff and including no Britons, has been conversing mainly in French. But most EU officials are more at ease in English.
Asked about the issue, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said after the summit: "Each of us is allowed to speak their own language. Since Mr Barnier is a French citizen, it's hardly surprising that he speaks French, just as I speak German."
Barnier, who speaks fluent if accented English, was an unpopular choice for some British politicians. Some described it as "an act of war" by Juncker. As a commissioner until 2014, Barnier, 65, had a difficult relationship with Britain, where one newspaper called him the "scourge of the City".
Some EU politicians have suggested that English might lose its status as one of three official EU working languages, along with French and German, as a result of Brexit.
However, few see a challenge to the global lingua franca's position in Brussels.

GENEVA The United Nations said medical evacuations from eastern Aleppo had not begun on Friday as it had hoped, as a lack of security guarantees and agreement with all sides prevented aid workers taking advantage of a pause in the bombing announced by Russia.
The U.N. wants to use the four-day pause to evacuate hundreds of sick and wounded from the besieged part of the city and to make food and aid deliveries, U.N. humanitarian spokesman Jens Laerke told a regular U.N. briefing.
"It is an astronomically difficult operation whereby we need the security assurances from all sides to be there and to be adhered to, plus facilitation from all parties," he said.
He declined to give details of the hold-up but he said the U.N. remained optimistic and was trying hard to unblock access.
"It's not even day-by-day, it's hour-by-hour," he said.
Syria's ambassador in Geneva Hussam Aala said the Syrian government had given the U.N. the green light for medical evacuations two days ago.
"We have taken all measures, we have buses and ambulances ready. Unfortunately the U.N. is not ready to cooperate. The ball is not in our court," he told Reuters.
"It is not happening because the terrorists inside Aleppo are preventing evacuation by using mortars and snipers to attack humanitarian corridors and crossing points."
He added that the U.N. was making an "artificial linkage" to avoid carrying out the evacuation.
"They are quoting the demands of terrorists inside Aleppo to justify their failure to evacuate," he said. "The evacuation of wounded should be done unconditionally."
Russia has told the U.N. it plans to halt bombing for 11 hours per day daily until Sunday, and the U.N. has asked for the period to be extended. Aid rations will run out by the end of this month, and fuel and medicine are also critically low, the U.N. has said.
U.N. spokesman Laerke said the U.N. was ready to do four days of evacuations and to bring supplies of food and aid to the besieged citizens on the third and fourth day.
But with eastern Aleppo already well into the second day of the pause, it was unclear if sufficent time remained for the planned convoys to go by Sunday.

JOHANNESBURG A South African student leader was killed during protests following weeks of country wide demonstrations by students demanding free tertiary education, the presidency said on Friday.
Lesego Benjamin Phehla, a student at Tshwane University of Technology in the capital Pretoria, was hit by a car and killed there on Thursday, the presidency said in a statement.
Police in Pretoria had used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse hundreds of students gathered outside President Jacob Zuma's offices as protests turned violent, with some students hurling sticks and bottles at police.
Weeks of demonstrations calling for the scrapping of university fees, prohibitive for many black students, have highlighted frustration at enduring inequalities in South Africa more than two decades after the end of white minority rule.

LONDON British police said on Friday they had arrested a teenager  under terrorism laws following the discovery of a "suspicious item" on a London underground train near the Canary Wharf financial district a day earlier.
Officers discharged a stun gun during the arrest of the 19-year-old in north London who was detained on suspicion of preparing terrorism acts, London's Metropolitan Police (MPS) said in a statement.
"Officers are keeping an open mind regarding any possible motive. They are not looking for anyone else in relation to this investigation at this stage," the statement added.
The suspect item, which is still being forensically examined, was found by staff on Thursday morning on a train at North Greenwich station in east London near Canary Wharf and close to the O2 music venue.
The station was evacuated and bomb squad officers carried out a controlled explosion to make the item safe. The investigation into the incident is being led by London's Counter Terrorism Command.
Britain is on its second-highest threat level of "severe", meaning an attack is considered highly likely. London's police chief said in July that it was a case of "when, not if" there would be an attack.
High visibility patrols, including armed officers, will be deployed at transport hubs following Thursday's incident to reassure the public, the MPS said.

KINSHASA Congo's influential Catholic Church urged politicians on Friday to renegotiate a deal struck last week to ensure a presidential election is held next year and President Joseph Kabila is forbidden from standing for a third term.
Democratic Republic of Congo's ruling coalition and part of the opposition have agreed to delay the vote from this November to April 2018, citing logistical and budgetary difficulties enrolling millions of voters.
But the vast central African country's main opposition bloc has denounced the accord as a pretext to allow Kabila to cling to power beyond the end of his mandate in December.
The pact removed language from an earlier draft that would have barred any changes to the constitution before the next election, leaving room for Kabila to change the constitution so that he can run again, his opponents say.
The government denies these accusations.
"It is imperative that it be clearly mentioned in the consensus ... that the current president of the republic not stand for a third term," the National Episcopal Conference of Congo said in a statement.
It added that a transition period after Kabila's mandate expires on Dec. 19 should not last beyond the end of 2017.
In a sign of simmering tensions, 12 young democracy activists were detained on Friday at a sit-in in the capital Kinshasa to protest the accord, a police spokesman said. He said they had violated a citywide ban on protests imposed after dozens died in anti-government demonstrations last month.
Opposition leaders have promised further protests to oust Kabila from power, raising fears of a return to widespread violence in a country where millions have died in civil conflicts since the 1990s and rebel groups continue to wreak anarchy in eastern regions.
The Congolese church has long been regarded as a moral compass in a country where confidence in other institutions is weak. More than 40 percent of Congolese identify as Catholic.
However, the church retreated from its more outspoken calls last year that Kabila step down in 2016 in order to try to broker a compromise that averts further bloodshed.

LONDON British journalist Mazher Mahmood, renowned for his "fake sheikh" undercover sting operations for media mogul Rupert Murdoch's tabloids, was jailed for 15 months on Friday for tampering with evidence in a high-profile trial.
Mahmood, 53, whose elaborate disguises have duped criminals, celebrities, and even royalty, plotted to get his driver to change a police statement during the drugs prosecution of Tulisa Contostavlos, a singer and former judge of the British version of the "X Factor" TV talent show.
Contostavlos had been about to go on trial accused of supplying cocaine for Mahmood, the self-styled "King of the Sting", as he posed as an influential Indian film producer while working on an exclusive story for the Sun on Sunday paper.
The conviction is set to ruin the career of Mahmood, one of Britain's best-known undercover journalists. News UK, Murdoch's UK newspaper arm, said it had sacked him.
Some 18 individuals caught out by Mahmood's stings are planning to take civil action against him and lawyers are reviewing cases in which his evidence had led to successful criminal prosecutions.
"Mazher has led scores of successful investigations during his 25-year career with the company," a News UK spokesman said, adding any legal claims would be "vigorously defended".
"His work has led to the exposure of criminality and wrongdoing. It is a source of great regret that his time with the company should end in this manner."
Prosecutors said Mahmood got his driver, Alan Smith, to change a statement he gave to detectives which would have made Contostavlos's conviction less likely by supporting her case that she was a victim of entrapment. Her trial collapsed in July 2014 after questions arose about Smith's evidence.
Earlier this month both men were found guilty of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice at London's Old Bailey court  and on Friday Mahmood was jailed for 15 months while Smith was given a suspended 12-month prison term.
Mahmood made his name at Murdoch's News of the World, which was closed in 2011 after it was revealed senior journalists had been hacking voicemails on mobile phones to get stories.
He carried out the undercover inquiry which led to the 2011 conviction of three Pakistani cricketers for taking bribes to fix incidents in a match against England and also duped Sophie, Countess of Wessex, wife of Queen Elizabeth's youngest son Prince Edward, in 2001 when he posed as an Arab sheikh.
But other stings have led to prosecutions which collapsed, including the case against five men accused of plotting to kidnap singer-turned-designer Victoria Beckham in 2002.

AMMAN The Syrian military said on Thursday a unilateral ceasefire backed by Russia had come into force to allow people to leave  besieged eastern Aleppo, a move rejected by rebels who say they are preparing a counter-offensive to break the blockade.
State media earlier said the army had opened exit corridors in two designated areas in the Bustan al Qasr quarter and near the Castello road in northern Aleppo city. Waiting buses were shown on state television.
Intensified Russian and Syrian bombing of besieged rebel-held parts of Aleppo in the past weeks has hit hospitals, bakeries and water pumping stations, and killed hundreds of civilians.
The United Nations has criticized unilateral ceasefires after long sieges, saying they can be helpful only if combined with humanitarian access for those who do not want to leave.
The 250,000 civilians trapped inside the besieged rebel held parts of the city have so far stayed away from the corridors. The army blames rebels opposed to President Bashar al-Assad for preventing them leaving and says they use civilians as human shields.
Rebels say the goal of Moscow and Assad is to empty rebel-held areas of civilians so they can take over the whole city.
"They talk about humanitarian corridors, but why are they not allowing food into besieged eastern Aleppo to alleviate our suffering? We only need the Russian bombers to stop killing our children. We don't want to leave," said Ammar al Qaran, a resident in Sakhour district.
State-owned Ikhbariyah television said rebels had fired a mortar barrage near to where ambulances had been heading to take patients from the besieged parts of the city for treatment in government-held areas.

MEDICAL TREATMENT
The Syrian military said on Wednesday it would observe the temporary ceasefire over three days from morning to sunset to allow trapped civilians to escape and said it had pulled back to enable rebel fighters to leave the city via two designated corridors.
"We guarantee a safe exit. Seize the opportunity and save your families," an army loudspeaker blared near an exit corridor, on live footage shown on the pro-Syrian government Lebanese news channel Mayadeen.
"An appeal to our people ... we will extend every help from shelters to hot dishes and facilities that offer you medical treatment," said the army loudspeaker.
To the rebels, the army broadcaster said: "Drop your weapons, this is your last chance."
Residents reported no raids on residential areas on Thursday morning though rebel sources said planes believed to be Russian jets flying at high altitude continued to pound targets in towns and villages in Aleppo's western countryside and in rebel-held Idlib province in northwest Syria.
People ventured onto the streets in some neighborhoods to buy essentials before an expected resumption of nightly raids after sunset.
Near the Turkish border, at least one civilian and scores were wounded when a car bomb blew up in an industrial area in the town of Azaz, a stronghold for Turkish-backed rebels who are waging a campaign to drive out Islamic State militants from their remaining foothold in the northern Aleppo countryside.
Since Russia intervened in the war a year ago, the government's side has gained the upper hand on numerous fronts, including Aleppo, where the opposition-held sector has been completely encircled for weeks.
The Syrian army has pressed ahead with a major campaign, supported by Iranian-backed militias and Russian air power, to take full control of Syria's largest city, divided between rebel and government zones since 2012.
The rebels, however, say they are preparing a large-scale offensive to break the siege of Aleppo and that the Russian air force has failed.
"The coming battle is not going to be like others. We are waiting for the signal of the start of a decisive battle which will surprise the regime and its militias," Abu Obeida al Ansari, a commander from Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, the rebranded former al Qaeda affiliate Nusra Front, said in a statement on social media.

GENEVA Russia has told the United Nations it will stop bombing eastern Aleppo for 11 hours a day for four days, but that is not enough to trigger a wider ceasefire deal under which militants would leave the Syrian warzone, the U.N. said on Thursday.
The Syrian military said a unilateral ceasefire backed by Russia had come into force to allow people to leave eastern Aleppo, a move rejected by rebels who say they are preparing a counter-offensive to break the blockade.
"They (the Russians) have said 11 hours per day and four days from today, Thursday," U.N. Syria humanitarian adviser Jan Egeland told reporters. "We hope it can be four days from tomorrow Friday."
"They are considering that additional day," he said, noting that Russia had originally announced an 8-hour pause, but the U.N. had objected that it was too short to evacuate wounded and bring in assistance.
Russia did not announce the four days of pauses. But its defence ministry said President Vladimir Putin had ordered the first 11-hour pause, which was due to expire on Thursday afternoon, to be extended for a further 24 hours.
The Syrian army, supported by Iranian-backed militias and Russian air power, announced a major offensive to capture the rebel-held part of Aleppo on Sept. 22, unleashing firepower not previously seen in the 5-1/2-year long war.
The onslaught has killed several hundred people and flattened many buildings. Hospitals have also been hit, leading the United States and France to accuse Russia and the Syrian government of war crimes.
In New York, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon pushed on Thursday for the 193-member General Assembly to hold a rare emergency special session on Syria since a deadlocked Security Council has failed to take action to end the nearly six-year war.
Russia has vetoed five Security Council resolutions on Syria since 2011. An emergency special session of the General Assembly could adopt a resolution on Syria recommending action.
In Brussels, European Union leaders were considering a draft text on Thursday that would condemn the attacks by the Syrian and Russian military and threaten further sanctions on individuals and entities if they continue.    Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry discussed the Syrian crisis by phone on Thursday, the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.
Separately, Turkish air strikes pounded a group of Kurdish fighters allied to a U.S.-backed militia in northern Syria overnight, highlighting the conflicting agendas of NATO members Ankara and Washington in an increasingly complex battlefield.
The Syrian military said in a statement it would bring down any Turkish war planes which entered the country's airspace.

THINGS CAN GO WRONG
Russia has said it stopped bombing Aleppo because it expects fighters from the banned Jabhat Fateh al-Sham group, previously called the Nusra Front, to leave the city, under a ceasefire deal proposed by U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura.
But de Mistura said he regarded the pauses in the bombing as a response to the U.N. request for medical evacuations.
His ceasefire proposal required more.
"The package is clear, Nusra needs to declare they are ready to go, or others can do on their behalf, and at the same time that there is a commitment by the (Syrian) government to respect the local administration," he said.
"Let's separate the two things. Today we consider this a medical evacuation, or medical support. The next steps are part of a larger package that needs to be there."
Egeland said he hoped the first sick and wounded would be brought out on Friday to government-held western Aleppo or rebel-held Idlib, according to their choice.
"We hope to continue until we have been able to evacuate all of the cases that need such evacuation, and that would be hopefully done in the course of days, and it could be several hundred cases with their families."
U.N. aid convoys are ready to move from western Aleppo and from Turkey, but there was still no deal to get food into the besieged zone and no guarantee that all would go smoothly.
"This is Syria, so everything can go wrong at every possible opportunity," Egeland said.
De Mistura said there were "perhaps 6,000-7,000" rebel fighters in eastern Aleppo, apparently revising an estimate two weeks ago in which he said there were 8,000 rebels there, including up to 900 members of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham.

TUNIS Thousands of Tunisian lawyers went on strike on Friday to protest at new taxes and tighter fiscal controls on their profession, extending a series of demonstrations against austerity measures in the 2017 budget.
Several hundred attorneys held a symbolic protest outside the palace of justice in downtown Tunis where, dressed in their court gowns, they chanted "Down down with the shameful law" and "We are united in the fight".
Attorneys are the latest group to join protests against Prime Minister Youssef Chahed's measures to cut the budget deficit and increase government revenues by levying new taxes and freezing public wage increases.
Under pressure from international lenders for reforms to cut spending, spur growth and create jobs, Chahed has proposed a broad package of initiatives, but he must also manage social unrest that his measures may trigger.
Thousands of lawyers stopped working for a one-day "Day of Rage" and threatened more such strikes if Chahed did not remove the proposed tax on law practices that was included in the 2017 budget approved by the cabinet last week.
"Lawyers are being exposed to a financial massacre... We reject this law strongly," Ameur Mehrzi, the Tunisian Bar president, told reporters at the Tunis protest.
Under the proposal all lawyers will pay a tax ranging from $8 to $25 on each file they present to the court.
Tunisia has been praised for its democratic progress since ousting Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali in a 2011 uprising. But many Tunisians are worried about more taxes and austerity measures adding to a lack of economic development since the revolution.
Chahed said last month that Tunisia is going through hard times and all citizens must share sacrifices to save the country's economy and cut back on spending.
The powerful UGTT labor union threatened on Thursday to hold a general strike and called protests against the government's plans to freeze public wage increases, which it warned could trigger protests.
The UTICA industry and business employers' association, one of Tunisia's major economic lobbying groups, also rejected a proposed exceptional tax contribution on business as a way for the government to generate finances.
Tunisia expects to seek $2.78 billion in foreign loans next year - nearly double its 2016 external financing needs - to help cover a 2017 fiscal deficit expected to be 5.4 percent of GDP.

BRUSSELS A lions' den or a nest of doves? For Theresa May, her first meeting with all the other European Union leaders since she became British prime minister ended up being described by most merely as businesslike.
It had been billed as an awkward encounter. Each side had at times characterized the other in less than diplomatic terms since Britain's vote to leave the bloc in June - the Britons portrayed as intransigent, the EU as overly angry over Brexit.
But at the end of a Brussels summit dinner, May served up her approach to Britain's departure from the EU while the other 27 leaders listened. The conversation may not have moved forward much, but there was a change of tone in the wider debate.
"She was actually very helpful. Quite a few times she came in with suggestions, on all the subjects. It was very positive," said an EU official, describing her as more active in discussions on agenda items such as Russia and migration than her predecessor David Cameron had been at such meetings.
It was in keeping with May's methods. British Conservative lawmakers who have known the former interior minister for years say she is "unflashy" and "businesslike", adopting a no-nonsense approach that her aides hope will ease tensions with the EU.
At her closing news conference, May was clear that she would not allow the EU to make decisions without her. "We will continue to play our role, as I have done, sitting around the table. I can assure you that I haven’t been backwards in coming forward on issues," she said.
The tone had sharpened after EU leaders felt her speech to her party faithful at the Conservative conference this month suggested she was heading for a "hard Brexit", a clean break with the EU's single market of 500 million consumers so as to impose controls on immigration from the bloc.
Since this speech geared for domestic consumption, May and even some of her trio of senior pro-Brexit ministers have moved to ease concerns among not only EU leaders, but also businesses and investors that her government does not want to hurt the economy and instead hopes to win maximum access to the European market.

"STRONG PARTNER"
Her aides denied her message had changed but were keen to say May had told EU leaders that she did not want to damage the EU with Britain's departure and the country was determined to remain "a strong and engaged partner".
"I think the PM is very clear ... on what we are approaching and that is the same message in the UK as it is in the EU," a source in the prime minister's office said.
"The principles which she has set out are the same: being clear that we want this to be a relationship that works for the UK and the EU once we've left," the source said, adding that May's message had not changed since she became leader in July.
But by sticking "to her speaking notes", as one EU diplomat described it, some leaders felt the conversation had not moved on at a summit where entrenched positions on Russia and migration frustrated attempts to secure agreements on what some leaders say are more pressing issues.
After dinner, the only time when Brexit was discussed, other EU leaders repeated what May had said - a checklist that Britain would trigger for the formal divorce procedure, Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty, by the end of March and that she was taking time to prepare for the talks.
A senior EU diplomat said the 27 leaders were left "no wiser" by May's briefing, and echoed comments from German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande that the future negotiations are still largely a mystery.
May has at least survived her first such EU encounter. It may not have been the "nest of doves" suggested by European Council President Donald Tusk had promised earlier, but it did not, as he put it, see her entering a lions' den.
"It's a negotiation, there's lots of things said," said the source in May's office, playing down the rhetoric of Hollande who warned her of a hard negotiation.
"It hasn't started yet. The PM is approaching it in a constructive spirit with goodwill, as she has from the outset."

BOGOTA Colombia's government on Wednesday presented to Congress a tax reform bill that seeks to raise billions of dollars in the coming years to make up for lost oil revenue and preserve its investment grade credit rating.
The reform, which must be approved by year-end to kick-in next year, will raise value-added tax to 19 percent from 16 percent, excluding basic products like food and medications.
It also seeks to widen the base for income tax contributions to add an additional 440,000 citizens and establishes 4 to 9 year prison terms for tax evasion.
The reform will lower income tax on businesses to 32 percent beginning in 2019, down from the 43 percent they would pay in coming years without the reform, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said. Companies currently pay 40 percent income tax.
The reform, which will bolster revenue by 0.8 percent of gross domestic product - or $2.4 billion - in 2017, is seen as crucial to preserving Colombia's BBB investment grade credit rating and is needed to fund anti-poverty programs. Revenue will reach 3.2 percent of GDP by 2022, Cardenas said.
"This reform will allow us to keep investor confidence and acquire more resources to improve Colombians' lives," said Cardenas. "We could raise our rating to triple B+."
The reform comes as the government copes with the fallout from the shock rejection early this month of a peace deal with the FARC rebels that shook investor confidence.
The proposal faces an uphill battle. The government's coalition usually has a congressional majority, but opposition lawmakers have expressed reservations.
Standard & Poor's warned that the failure to approve the peace deal and an economic deceleration meant it could make it harder to pass key fiscal reforms.
"The reform is probably very ambitious," said Camilo Perez, chief economist at Banco de Bogota. "The big challenge is passing the original version and preventing it being watered down."
Oil revenue has all but disappeared as the global price of crude plunged over the last year. Economic growth has slowed to an estimated 2.5 percent, from 3.1 percent in 2015.
Cardenas has widened the national government's fiscal deficit target to 3.9 percent of GDP from 3.6 percent.
Congress on Wednesday approved a $77 billion budget for next year, an increase of 5 percent over 2016.


PARIS The French government said on Wednesday it would come down hard on anti-police violence after officers staged a second night of protests over recent attacks on police and what they see as insufficient resources.
Unions say a surge in criminal gang activity and militant attacks has put extra strains on police.
Thousands of police and soldiers have been deployed to guard airports, train stations and other sites in response to Islamist attacks that have killed more than 230 people in France in the past two years.
On Tuesday night, dozens of police cars, roof lights flashing, drove in convoy down Paris's Champs Elysees to vent their fear over their own safety.
"The government is totally determined that justice is done each time that a police officer is attacked," Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve told reporters after meeting with police unions.
Right-wing politicians have seized on the show of discontent to attack President Francois Hollande's Socialist government six months from an election. Hollande's opponents say the number of lawless no-go zones in France have proliferated during his mandate.
Hundreds of officers jeered and hurled insults at national police chief Jean-Marc Falcone on Tuesday when he arrived for talks on security in Evry, a town near where a gang petrol-bombed four police officers in a patrol car on Oct. 8.
The car was stationed at a crossroads notorious for smash-and-grab robberies on motorists. Police say the gang tried to prevent the officers getting out of the burning vehicle. Two of the four were seriously hurt and one suffered life-threatening burns.
Falcone, who ordered an inquiry on Tuesday into what he called unacceptable behavior by police officers, urged calm.
"I understand their exasperation, anguish and fear," he told RTL radio.
Conservative politicians including former head of state Nicolas Sarkozy, who is seeking a return to the Elysee palace, have criticized Hollande's security record after a spate of militant attacks this summer.
Cazeneuve said Hollande had created 6,300 new police jobs and 2,700 more officers would be recruited by next year to replace the thousands axed during Sarkozy's 2007-2012 presidency.


SEOUL North Korea fired what is believed to be an intermediate-range missile early on Thursday but it failed immediately after launch, South Korea's military said.
The U.S. Strategic Command said earlier that it had detected a failed attempt by North Korea to launch what it believed to be an intermediate-range missile.


BERLIN Germany and France pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin to extend a pause in air strikes in Syria and halt the "criminal" bombardment of civilians, but said four-way talks aimed at ending violence in eastern Ukraine made some progress.
"We are talking here about criminal activities, about crimes against the civilians," German Chancellor Angela Merkel told reporters after what she described as a difficult discussion with Putin about the crisis in Syria.
French President Francois Hollande used the phrase "war crimes," and both leaders criticized Russia for attacking the civilian population under the pretense of fighting terrorism.
"We agree that terrorism must be combatted, but not at the price that 300,000 people there must lose their lives and suffer without all necessary supplies," Merkel said, reflecting growing concern in Europe and the United States about Russia's support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Merkel and Hollande will discuss the talks at an EU summit meeting on Thursday evening, with the bloc due to consider whether to impose new sanctions on Russians over the bombing in the besieged Syrian city of Aleppo.
While there is no immediate consensus for more sanctions, Britain and France, with support from eastern and Nordic countries, said they could push for them in the coming weeks if Russia continues to bomb the rebel-held east of the city.
Merkel said she could not rule out sanctions, but said Thursday's EU meeting would be focused on helping civilians.
"We made it very, very clear tonight that Russia has a great responsibility that extends far beyond the bombardment," she said. "It will decide whether humanitarian supplies can be delivered (and) whether a political process can be begun."
Putin told a separate news conference that Moscow had proposed to speed up adoption of a new constitution in Syria to facilitate future elections, and said Russia was ready to extend an eight-hour pause in air strikes in Syria.
He underscored the importance of "eradicating terrorism" and called on the United States to separate Al Nusra Front militants from what he called "the healthy opposition" in Syria.
Hollande acknowledged Putin's offer of extending the ceasefire, but said a longer pause in bombing was needed to bring in much-needed humanitarian supplies.
"A respite of a few hours makes no sense," he told a joint news conference with Merkel after the talks. "The main point is that the population of Aleppo ... cannot continue to live in conditions that are unbearable."
Merkel had insisted that Putin agree to discuss Syria on the sidelines of the so-called "Normandy Format" meeting on Ukraine. It was the Russian leader's first trip to Germany since 2013.
The meeting took place hours after news emerged that Russian warships off the coast of Norway were preparing to reinforce a brutal assault on Aleppo.

PROGRESS ON UKRAINE, HARD WORK AHEAD
Merkel said a separate meeting with Hollande, Putin and Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko - their first in over a year - had resulted in agreement on a preliminary road map for implementing the Minsk peace deal reached in February 2015.
Foreign ministers will work out details of the plan in November, but hard work remained ahead, Merkel said.
Poroshenko said the sides agreed during the five-hour meeting to withdraw Ukrainian troops and Russian-backed separatists from four new areas at the frontline of the fighting in the Donbass region. That follows the withdrawal of forces from three other key areas that began last month.
They also agreed that monitors from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) could be armed and that their activities in monitoring the so-called Minsk peace process would not be impeded.
Local elections remained a matter of debate, with Ukraine insisting it would only hold elections in the Donbass region after foreign forces withdrew, Poroshenko told reporters.
Separatist violence erupted in eastern Ukraine in 2014 and has killed 9,600 people so far. Both Russia and Ukraine accuse each other of perpetuating the violence and violating the 2015 Minsk peace agreement.
At Thursday's EU dinner, eastern and Baltic countries are also set to call for stronger EU defenses against what they say is Russian disinformation campaigns to destabilize their governments or a possible cyber attack.
"The mood is hardening," said a senior EU diplomat. "Russia used to be seen as a strategic partner. Now it is a strategic problem."

LIMA A farmer in Peru was killed on Friday during rallies in a remote Andean town against MMG Ltd's $10-billion Las Bambas copper mine, the first protester to die in clashes over mining in President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski's new government.
Unrest erupted in the highland region of Apurimac as police tried to clear townsfolk from a road they had been blocking for nearly a week, leaving dead a 42-year-old man, said Artemio Solano, a representative of the ombudsman's office.
Congressman Richard Arce, who represents Apurimac, said the man was shot dead by police and that scores of people from towns nearby were also wounded.
A photograph from the clash provided by Arce's office showed a man lying belly-up on blood-stained stones in a field.
The protesters were upset because of the heavy dust and noise on the road where trucks transport the Chinese-owned mine's copper concentrates, Solano and Arce said.
"On a recent visit I saw 97 trucks carrying 30 tonnes of concentrates in 22 minutes. Passing by in front of people's homes," Arce said. "That would be outrageous to anyone."
Peru's interior ministry said it lamented the death and added that 20 police had been wounded, including one who risked losing his eye after being hit by rocks.
Police said they were investigating the incident.
The clash occurred some 40 to 50 km (25 to 31 miles) from the mine site and the road blockage did not impede copper shipments because they took an alternate route, said Las Bambas spokesman Domingo Drago.
Peru's economy has been recovering this year on the back of surging output from Las Bambas and other new mines that are expected to make the country the world's second biggest copper producer.
Las Bambas produced 35,000 tonnes of copper in August, or nearly a fifth of national output, official data show.
Three people protesting Las Bambas were also killed last year in clashes over changes to the mine's environmental plan and dwindling jobs as construction wrapped up.
Kuczynski, who took office July 28, promised to ease opposition to mining in Peru by ensuring communities receive the benefits of projects before they are built.
But his centrist government has inherited scores of deep-rooted conflicts in remote regions, including protests over oil pollution in the northern Amazon after Peru's main crude pipeline sprung half-a-dozen leaks this year.

BERLIN The Minsk accord, reached in February 2015 in the Belarussian capital, should be the basis for a resolution of the crisis in southeast Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin told reporters on Wednesday after international talks in Berlin.
The talks with French President Francois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko lasted for around five hours.
Putin also said that it was agreed that the monitors from the Organization for Security and Co‑operation in Europe (OSCE) will "broaden their mission" in the conflict zones.
He added that the humanitarian situation in southeast Ukraine remained tense.

NEW YORK (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Soon after Iraqi lawyer Khaleel Aldakhi and his wife heard the chilling news that Islamic State militants were enslaving Yazidi women and children in Iraq, they began plotting a rescue mission from their home in the northern city of Dohuk.
During a 2014 visit to refugee camps in Iraq's Kurdistan region to get more information about the Yazidi women and girls who had disappeared, Aldakhi met a couple whose 17-year-old daughter was held captive by the Islamist group.
They offered Aldakhi their phone so he could talk to the young woman, who had managed to keep in touch with her family.
"She was saying that she wanted to commit suicide," said Aldakhi, 39, who was speaking through an interpreter in New York. "I told her, 'I'm going to help you'."
Days later Aldakhi and a quickly assembled network of collaborators had freed the girl, Maha, and smuggled her out of the Iraqi city of Mosul where she was being held captive.
Two years on, Aldakhi and his wife Ameena Saeed Hasan have turned what they thought would be a one-time rescue mission into a full-time underground operation, which they say has saved some 170 girls from Islamic State.
Their work has won them an award from U.S.-based activist group Human Rights First, which was due to host a gala dinner later on Wednesday in recognition of their courage.
"After we rescued one and two girls ... the families heard we helped [kidnapped] girls so they came to us and gave us the locations of their daughters," said Hasan, 36, a former member Iraq's of parliament who once represented Sinjar district, where the couple used to live.

SLEEPLESS NIGHTS
Islamic State killed, captured or enslaved thousands of Yazidis when it overran the town of Sinjar in northern Iraq in August 2014.
The United States, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have described the group's actions against the Yazidis, a religious sect whose beliefs combine elements of several ancient Middle Eastern religions, as genocide.
The United Nations estimates that more than 3,000 Yazidi women and girls are still being held captive, some as sex slaves.
As parents of a young daughter, Aldakhi and Hasan said they could not tolerate others families' suffering.
"It's affected me most as a woman and as a mother," said Hasan, who carries around a mobile phone whose cover displays a picture of their 7-year-old daughter in a bright red dress.
About one in every 100 abducted girls and women is in contact with the couple's secret network of dozens of underground collaborators deep inside Islamic State-occupied territory, Aldakhi estimates.
Since their first rescue, they have received thousands of calls from enslaved women and desperate families, they said.
Each rescue operation involves precise planning, accomplices and drivers willing to put their lives on the line as well as safe houses to hide the girls who sometimes are in touch using a smuggled cell phone.
Logistics for each rescue can cost between $3,000 to $10,000, money that mostly comes from the Iraqi Kurdish authorities, Aldakhi said.
The constant life or death operations take an emotional toll, said Aldakhi.
"It's very difficult to hear someone say they need to be rescued and (you) say you're not able to help, especially when they are women," he said. "At the beginning I couldn't handle it, I couldn't sleep at night."
The couple do not rule out an attempt on their lives even though they now live in the relative safety of the Iraqi town of Dohuk.
Despite the dangers, Aldakhi said he could not give up the work. "I won't stop this work until this work stops," he said.

GENEVA/WASHINGTON U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry played down expectations of a new Syrian ceasefire deal with Russia after talks in Geneva aimed at agreeing on how to separate al Qaeda-linked militants from opposition fighters in the besieged city of Aleppo.
After two failed ceasefire agreements between the United States and Russia to end the fighting in Aleppo, a new round of talks includes Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which support Syrian opposition groups. Syria's ally Iran was not invited, a Western diplomat said.
"I'm not approaching this with a high sense of expectation and nothing is based on trust," Kerry told a news conference in Washington following meetings with South Korean ministers.
"I urge Russia to sit at this table in Geneva and be serious about finding a simple way, which we are offering, to make sure that those who are genuinely terrorists are in fact separated out, isolated," Kerry said.
Kerry spoke as a senior NATO diplomat, citing Western intelligence, said that Russian warships off the coast of Norway were carrying fighter aircraft that are likely to reinforce a final assault on Aleppo in two weeks.
The Geneva talks follow a meeting between the United States and Arab and European allies on Tuesday that sought to coordinate efforts toward a new ceasefire after Russia, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's more powerful ally, unexpectedly announced it had halted air strikes on rebel-held areas of Aleppo.
Michael Ratney, the U.S. special envoy for Syria, led Washington's delegation in the talks in Geneva, while Moscow sent military experts whose names were not released. It was not clear if the talks would continue on Thursday.
Russia favors a U.N. proposal to evacuate jihadists belonging to the Jabhat Fateh al-Sham militant group, formerly known as al-Nusra, from the besieged zone of eastern Aleppo in return for a ceasefire.
"Important countries, like Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar, which have influence over the mainstream rebel groups, are in a position to suggest to those groups to tell the al-Nusra fighters that it is time to go to Idlib and therefore take away any alleged justification, or alibi, for the heavy bombing of urban areas of eastern Aleppo," the U.N. special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, told Swedish daily Svenska Dagbladet.
Idlib is a largely rebel-held area of northwestern Syria.
Russia has said a planned eight-hour ceasefire on Thursday will be extended if other rebels clearly distance themselves from Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, but it will not prolong the pause unilaterally.
"The Russians have no interest in getting to a point where they have to participate in the destruction of a city in order to fight a small group of fighters listed as terrorists by the U.N. and be remembered in history for that," de Mistura said.
The last ceasefire fell apart in September, since when Russian and Syrian forces have undertaken a massive bombing campaign against eastern Aleppo in which hospitals have been destroyed and hundreds of civilians killed.
Assad argues that his forces have a constitutional duty to protect the civilian population and rid the city of "terrorists".
The task of separating "moderate" rebels from Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, designated as a terrorist group by the U.N., is complicated because they have long fought side-by-side and there is little agreement on the number of their combatants in Aleppo.
The United Nations says there are up to 900 Jabhat Fateh al-Sham fighters out of a total of 8,000 rebels in eastern Aleppo, but diplomatic sources have told Reuters there are far fewer, probably a maximum of 200.
"They are calling the shots in Aleppo," one aid official told Reuters.

BRUSSELS Russian warships off the coast of Norway are carrying fighter bombers that are likely to reinforce a final assault on the besieged Syrian city of Aleppo in two weeks, a senior NATO diplomat said on Wednesday, citing Western intelligence.
The fleet passed by the Norwegian city of Bergen on Wednesday, the diplomat said, while Russian media has said it will move through the English Channel, past Gibraltar and into the Mediterranean Sea to the Syrian coast.
"They are deploying all of the Northern fleet and much of the Baltic fleet in the largest surface deployment since the end of the Cold War," the diplomat said on condition of anonymity.
"This is not a friendly port call. In two weeks, we will see a crescendo of air attacks on Aleppo as part of Russia's strategy to declare victory there," the diplomat said.
Photos of the vessels have been released by the Norwegian military, taken on Monday. A Norwegian newspaper quoted the head of the Norwegian military intelligence service saying the ships involved "will probably play a role in the deciding battle for Aleppo".
Russia, which supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with an air campaign against the Western rebels in the devastated eastern part of Aleppo, has said the deployment will target Islamic State militants in Syria.
But the NATO diplomat said the additional military firepower was designed to drive out or destroy the 8,000 rebels in Aleppo, the only large city still in opposition hands, and allow Russian President Vladimir Putin to start a withdrawal.
An intensified air campaign in eastern Aleppo, where 275,000 people are trapped, would further worsen ties between Moscow and the West, which says the Kremlin may be responsible for war crimes.
NATO officials also say that strategically, Russia's air strikes are securing its interests by protecting Assad and Russia's Syrian port in Tartous, which boosts its access to the Black Sea that it controls after taking the Crimean peninsula.
"With this assault, it should be enough to allow a Russian exit strategy if Moscow believes Assad is now stable enough to survive," the diplomat said.
The fleet off Norway includes Russia's only aircraft carrier, the Admiral Kuznetsov, which is carrying jet fighters, and the Soviet-era nuclear-powered battle cruiser Pyotr Velikiy, or Peter the Great. Other Russian vessels in the group include the anti-submarine warships of the Severomorsk and Vice-Admiral Kulakov and support ships, Russian media has reported.

BERLIN Germany and France pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin to extend a pause in air strikes in Syria at late night talks in Berlin that Chancellor Angela Merkel described as difficult.
"A respite of a few hours makes no sense," French President Francois Hollande told a joint news conference with Merkel after the talks. "The main point is that the population of Aleppo ... cannot continue to live in conditions that are unbearable."
Merkel and Hollande said they confronted Russia about its role in the bombardment of civilians in Aleppo.
"We are talking here about criminal activities, about crimes against the civilians," Merkel said, although she did not echo Hollande's use of the phrase "war crimes".

BERLIN Fresh sanctions against Russia for its actions in Syria remain an option but European Union leaders will not take any decisions on this at a summit this week, a senior German official said on Wednesday.
The official said that European Council President Donald Tusk had indicated that no decisions would be taken on Russia at the meeting of EU leaders on Thursday and Friday.
"That means it won't take any options off the table. Sanctions are one of the options on the table. We expect they will remain on the table after the summit," the official said.

PARIS French President Francois Hollande said on Wednesday he would do everything possible to try to extend a ceasefire in eastern Aleppo when he discusses Syria with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin this evening.
"As we speak bombings are still taking place. It's true a truce was announced and it's been 24 hours. I will do everything tonight with Chancellor Merkel so that this truce is extended," Hollande said after meeting representatives from rebel-held areas of Aleppo.
Hollande, who last week refused to meet Putin in Paris unless they discussed Syria, will meet his Russian and German counterparts in Berlin for a summit on Ukraine Wednesday evening and agreed to hold a separate talks on the situation in Syria.
European leaders have grown increasingly angry over a Russian-backed Syrian government onslaught against Western-backed rebels in Aleppo and the impact on some 300,000 civilians still living there.
They will discuss in Brussels on Thursday their ties with Russia, although sanctions against Moscow for its actions in Syria are an option being discussed even if there is no European-wide consensus in the short-term.
"France will do everything to exert pressure, notably on the allies of the (Syrian) regime - I'm thinking of the Russians -  so that the truce can be extended."
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on Wednesday that Russia ruled out extending a pause in bombing of Syria's Aleppo unilaterally. Russia has said it would pause bombing for eight hours on Thursday.
Speaking alongside Hollande, Brita Hagi Hassan, president of the city council for opposition-held Aleppo, said Europe had talked a great deal about saving the city, but done very little in reality.
"We talked about the European Union being a big power, but there has been a lot of words, sympathy, but not many acts. The EU, as a big power, has been in third place behind the United States and Russia, which has been helping the regime with all its power to massacre the Syrian people."

NEW YORK The suspected head of a Mexican drug cartel that U.S. authorities said was responsible for distributing tons of cocaine into the Unit-ed States and Europe before being arrested in 2014 pleaded guilty on Wednesday.
Tirso Martinez-Sanchez, 49, pleaded guilty in federal court in Brooklyn to distributing cocaine with the intention that it would be imported into the United States, according to his lawyer.
The charge carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison and a maximum of life, though under an extradition agreement with Mexico, the U.S. government has agreed to not seek a life term, said Peter Quijano, Martinez-Sanchez's lawyer.
Prosecutors said Martinez-Sanchez was the leader of an extensive international narcotics organization that was responsible for importing and distributing tens of thousands of kilograms (pounds) of cocaine.
Prosecutors said the organization obtained cocaine from Colombian sources and Martinez-Sanchez organized its importation into the United States using an network of trains, tractor trailers, and other vehicles.
The U.S. State Department, which had offered a $5 million reward for information that could lead to his capture, has said the group brought 76 tons of cocaine into the United States from 2000 to 2003 and also distributed cocaine into Europe.
Once the drugs were in the United States, Martinez-Sanchez directed members of his organization to transport it to large distribution centers in areas including Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago, prosecutors said.
He utilized a network of large warehouses to store and distribute the cocaine in the United States, which were bought or leased using a number of front companies, prosecutors said.
Martinez-Sanchez invested proceeds from his narcotics activities in a number of ventures, including purchase of professional soccer teams and a chain of high-end clothing boutiques, prosecutors said.
He was arrested in Mexico in February 2014 and extradited to the United States in December 2015.

SANAA A U.N.-mediated truce to the war in Yemen went into effect a minute before midnight on Wednesday, hours after Saudi-led air strikes hit military bases in the capital Sanaa and rival militias battled near the border with the kingdom.
The coalition led by Saudi Arabia said in a statement it would respect the three-day truce provided its foes in Yemen's Iran-allied Houthi movement also complied, allowed aid supplies to reach combat areas and kept calm on the border.
Residents reported in the early hours of Wednesday that air raids hit several army barracks, the latest of thousands of air strikes during a 19-month military intervention by Saudi Arabia and Arab allies.
Despite support from that coalition, forces loyal to the internationally recognized exiled government have made few recent gains against the Houthis and army units based in Sanaa.
The pro-Houthi military said late on Tuesday it had fired rockets at a Saudi army base and that its forces had repelled an attempt by Saudi-backed government forces to seize an intersection connecting two far northern provinces.
Several previous ceasefires have failed to pave the way for an end to the conflict, but have significantly slowed fighting in the war which has killed at least 10,000 people.
Exiled President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi told state news agency Saba on Wednesday that he expected his foes would violate the truce.
"We don't expect from them today anything more than prevarication and procrastination," Hadi was quoted as saying after meeting the American and British ambassadors.
The parliament in Sanaa, in which pro-Houthi MPs hold a majority, called on Wednesday for a "full commitment" to the truce, a day after a Houthi-led political council in the capital said it would comply.
Diplomats hope the truce will be extended, opening the way for aid supplies as disease and hunger spread.
The World Health Organisation reported an outbreak of cholera in Sanaa this month and the U.N.'s Food and Agriculture Organisation said that the war has halved cereal production and that 1.3 million Yemeni children were acutely malnourished.
"The fighting is still going on in many areas," the U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Yemen, Jamie McGoldrick, told reporters on Wednesday.
"As we saw in previous ceasefires, not all parties accept it ... We hope that it does kick in and there is a chance that this holds and we can do more work and reach more areas."


JERUSALEM Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday expressed concern that U.S. President Barack Obama, during the final days of his term in office, might take diplomatic steps that could harm the fate of Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank.
Israel is concerned that the United States might not rally to its assistance in the event that an anti-settlement resolution is put to a vote in the United Nations Security Council and that Washington might not use its veto to quash such a move.
Obama's strong opposition to settlement building on land Palestinians seek for a future state has also raised speculation in Israel that he might try to define parameters for a final peace agreement that has eluded Israel and the Palestinians since interim deals were signed in the early 1990s.
Peace talks collapsed in 2014, with settlements a key issue in the dispute between the parties.
A statement from Netanyahu's office clarified that he had told settlers in a closed meeting last week he hoped Obama would not act in the same way that some previous U.S. administrations had done at the end of their term, when they had "promoted initiatives that did not align with Israel's interests". He did not specify any examples.
The statement repeated what Netanyahu had already told Israeli reporters in New York following his address to the U.N. General Assembly last month when he said: "I can only hope that the U.S.'s consistent policy will continue to the end of his (Obama’s) tenure (on January 20)."
It also denied what Israeli Channel 2 had ascribed to Netanyahu earlier on Wednesday when it quoted him as telling the settlers that "in the coming period, between the U.S. elections and the end of the term of (U.S. President Barack) Obama - the entire settlement movement is under threat."
The United States has consistently criticised Israel over its West Bank settlement drive and earlier this month, Washington issued a strong rebuke at Israeli plans to build what it called a new Jewish settlement which it said would damage prospects for peace with the Palestinians.
In unusually harsh words, Washington also accused Israel of going back on its word that no new settlements would be built. Obama raised concerns about the settlements when he met Netanyahu in New York.
The United States contends that the project constitutes the establishment of a new settlement in the West Bank, contrary to assurances Netanyahu made to Obama that no new settlements would be built. Israel regards the planned homes as part of an existing settlement.

CAPE TOWN South African police fired rubber bullets, tear gas and stun grenades on Wednesday to disperse hundreds of student protesters demanding free education at the University of the Western Cape in Cape Town.
Protests have taken place for weeks at universities across the country, prompting President Jacob Zuma last week to form a ministerial team to tackle the issue.
The university said in a statement it was suspending classroom lectures for the rest of the academic year, which ends in December, and would give students the choice of writing final examinations in November or January.
"Today the situation on campus escalated and it has become clear that simply continuing with face-to-face academic engagement would not be possible without seriously compromising the safety of students and staff," the university said.
A private security guard was badly beaten by demonstrators in the latest clash and a campus building was set on fire, a  Reuters witness said.
The protests over the cost of university education, prohibitive particularly for black students and set to rise by up to 8 percent next year, have highlighted frustration at the inequalities that still endure, more than two decades after the end of apartheid.
Police in the capital Pretoria warned the public of an expected march by students on Thursday to the Union Buildings, where the government has its seat.

MOSCOW Russian President Vladimir Putin and  Syria's President Bashar al-Assad have discussed a "humanitarian pause" in the Syrian city of Aleppo, Russian news agencies quoted a Kremlin spokesman as saying on Wednesday.

WASHINGTON U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Wednesday played down expectations of an new ceasefire agreement with Russia on Syria following talks in Geneva and urged Moscow to be serious about finding a way to end the conflict.
"I'm not approaching this with a high sense of expectation and nothing is based on trust," Kerry told a news conference  following meetings with South Korean ministers.

ZAGREB The Croatian parliament approved on Wednesday a new government led by the conservative HDZ party leader Andrej Plenkovic whose main task will be to boost growth and sort out fragile public finances in one of the weakest European Union economies.
The new government was formed by the HDZ and its junior center-right reformist partner Most ("Bridge") after several weeks of negotiations following a Sept. 11 snap election.
The government got support of 91 out of 151 parliamentary deputies.
"We will be the government that knows how to bring about changes," Plenkovic told the parliamentary deputies while presenting his cabinet.
He said that spurring growth and improving the business climate would be his government's priorities.
"We will ease conditions for doing business and implement tax reform to make the taxation system simpler and ease burden for citizens and businesses," Plenkovic said.
In the past many investors have largely shunned Croatia due to red tape, high taxes, frequently changing regulations and a slow judiciary.
Plenkovic said that the 2017 budget, which is expected in November, will clearly reflect efforts to reduce the fiscal gap and public debt which now stands at around 85 percent of gross domestic product.
Tentatively, the government wants to reduce the gap to two percent next year from some 2.5 percent expected this year.
Among the main challenges for the new government will be disputes with Hungary's MOL over decision-making in jointly owned Croatian energy group INA, with public sector trade unions over wage hike promise, and with local banks over the forced conversion of Swiss franc loans into euros.
Disputes over the promise of higher wages, dating back to 2009, and CHF loans, whose conversion cost was entirely imposed on the banks, could potentially inflict costs worth billions of kuna and undermine fiscal consolidation plans.
Analysts widely believe that without measures to significantly improve the business climate, the country is unlikely to surpass the 2.5 percent growth figure in the coming years.
HDZ won most parliamentary seats in the snap election following a collapse of the previous HDZ-Most government in June, after just five months in power, due to a row over a conflict of interest case involving a former HDZ leader..
Analysts believe the new government, led by the new HDZ leader, has a good chance of completing the four-year term.



HELSINKI Finland's center-right government has dropped plans to help build a Guggenheim museum in Helsinki with state funding, Prime Minister Juha Sipila said on Wednesday.
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation has proposed a museum for Helsinki, like those that grace New York, Bilbao and Venice.
But one of Finland's three co-ruling parties last month opposed the state covering 40 million euros ($44 million) of its building costs.
Government aid has been considered crucial for the 120 million-140 million euro project and the foundation has been eager to continue negotiations before the reservation of the seafront plot expires at the end of 2016.
But Prime Minister Juha Sipila, asked whether the project was now dead and buried, told Reuters:
"It is. This government will not make such a proposal. It is only a financial question, at the moment we don't have a possibility to invest."
Promoters of the museum had hoped it would be a boost for the recession-hit country, while some Finns considered the project a waste of taxpayer money at a time of cuts to government welfare and schools. ($1 = 0.9119 euros)

A military helicopter crashed in Uzbekistan on Wednesday, killing nine people on board, state news agency UzA said.
The Soviet-designed Mi-171 transport helicopter owned by the Defence Ministry crashed while flying over the eastern Ferghana region of the Central Asian nation, it said.
Three crew members and six servicemen died in the crash and the authorities are investigating its cause.

MILAN An Italian judge on Wednesday sent a Moroccan exotic dancer and 22 others for trial on a variety of charges, including lying under oath about lavish parties hosted by former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.
Prosecutors accuse Berlusconi of bribing witnesses to silence them over accusations he paid for sex with young women, including Karima El Mahroug, who is better known by her stage name Ruby the Heartstealer and who was underage at the time. Berlusconi denies any wrongdoing in the case.
He was acquitted in 2014 of having sex with the 17-year-old dancer and abusing his power as prime minister at the time to cover it up, with a judge ruling Berlusconi did not know that Mahroug was a minor.
Prosecutors have since alleged that around 10 million euros  ($11 million) were paid to corrupt the witnesses in the case, of which Mahroug received 7 million.
She said in the witness box that she had never had sex with Berlusconi and has since denied giving false testimony.
The court on Wednesday put back until Dec. 15 a decision on whether also to send the 80-year-old Berlusconi to trial because poor health meant that he had missed pre-trial hearings.
Berlusconi had major heart surgery in June.
Among those sent to trial on Wednesday were 16 women who took part in the "Bunga Bunga" parties. The first hearing was set for Jan. 11.
Berlusconi's political career has been dogged by non-stop legal battles. He was barred from office following a 2013 conviction for tax fraud and although he remains head of his Forza Italia (Go Italy!) party he has lost much popular support.

($1 = 0.9121 euros)

ZAGREB Croatia's Prime Minister-designate Andrej Plenkovic said on Tuesday he had chosen ministers for his cabinet and would seek parliamentary approval this week.
His government's main tasks will be to fix fragile public finances and boost moderate growth in the newest European Union member, one of the bloc's weakest economies.
"I believe it's a choice of people who are ready to give their utmost in the coming years for the benefit of the country," Plenkovic, a 46-year old former diplomat and leader of the conservative HDZ party, told reporters.
He did not provide the names of all the ministers, but said there would be four deputies, one of whom would be Martina Dalic in charge of the economy. She was briefly the finance minister in a previous HDZ government five years ago.
The parliament is expected to vote on Plenkovic's proposal for new cabinet on Wednesday.
Zdravko Maric has retained his position as finance minister as expected, state television reported.
Markets are likely to welcome the news as his efforts in a previous cabinet made it possible for Croatia to cut the budget gap to below three percent of gross domestic product for the first time in almost a decade.
"Stronger growth and further fiscal consolidation with more focus on the spending side should be priorities for the new government," said Hrvoje Stojic, an analyst from Addiko Bank.
Croatia's economy is expected to grow this year slightly  more than 2.5 percent, but analysts largely believe that without measures to significantly improve the business climate the country is unlikely to perform any better in the coming years.
The new government, comprising the HDZ and its junior centre-right reformist partner Most (Bridge), will have 19 ministries, one less than the previous HDZ-Most cabinet which collapsed in June after just five months due to bickering over a conflict of interest involving a former HDZ leader.
HDZ, which has vowed to boost growth to five percent by the end of the four-year term, won 61 out of 151 seats in a snap election on Sept. 11. Besides a coalition deal with Most, which will run four ministries, it has also secured support from ethnic minorities.


ROME Rescuers pulled 301 boat migrants to safety and found five dead bodies in five operations in the central Mediterranean on Wednesday, the Italian Coast Guard said.
An Irish navy ship recovered the five dead from a rubber boat along with 118 survivors. Humanitarian group Life Boat saved 130 people from another rubber boat.
Overnight, Italian Coast Guard vessels rescued 18 people from a wooden boat near the southern island of Pantelleria, a further 11 near the uninhabited island of Lampione, and 24 more off the coast of Lampedusa Island on Wednesday morning.
The central Mediterranean route between North Africa and Italy is the deadliest border in the world for migrants. More than 3,100 have gone missing or died this year while trying to use this route to Europe by boat, the International Organization for Migration estimates.


BANGKOK Thai police are investigating 12 new complaints of royal defamation on social media lodged since the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej last week, a sharp rise amid intensifying scrutiny of anything deemed offensive to the monarchy.
The death last Thursday of the revered king, who was 88, after seven decades on the throne has plunged the Southeast Asian country into mourning and heightened sensitivity about the monarchy.
King Bhumibol was seen as a stabilizing figure in a country often racked by political turmoil.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha has moved quickly to quash any uncertainty around the royal succession, saying Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn would ascend the throne after a period of mourning that he had requested.
Insulting the monarch, the regent or the heir, known by the French-language term "lese-majeste", is a crime in Thailand that carries a jail sentence of up to 15 years for each offense.
Police spokesman Kitsana Pattanacharoen said there had been 12 lese-majeste cases since last Thursday, with arrest warrants issued for eight suspects and four already in police custody.
"Their crime was posting messages or pictures which insulted the monarchy on social media," he told Reuters.
There were 70 cases in the two-and-a-half years from a May 2014 coup up to last Thursday, said Weerawat Somnuek, a researcher at Thai legal monitoring group iLaw.
"Twelve cases in a week is a lot," Weerawat told Reuters.
The stepped-up prosecutions come at a time of deep grief  among Thais, who have for decades seen the late king as a unifying father figure.
People are dressing in black around the country, and have been streaming to Bangkok's gilded Grand Palace to pay their respects to the late king, who is lying there.

ANGER
Volunteers have appeared outside the palace, handing out free water and food as mourners line up in the heat and rain. Old folk have been waiting in the shade of awnings.
"If I could follow him I would but I don't know if I have enough good karma to meet him in death," said one old woman.
No date has been set for a royal cremation but it is expected to take place in about a year.
The Thai stock market, which fell sharply last week as investors worried about stability after King Bhumibol, has been stable this week.
But some grief-stricken people have been quick to anger.
In some cases, violence has erupted against individuals deemed disrespectful, while similar anger has erupted online against people whose posts have been seen as inappropriate.
Thailand's main mobile telecoms operators have, at the government's request, asked customers to report websites and social media posts deemed inappropriate or insulting.
The government also asked internet service providers to monitor content and inform platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Youtube to block offensive material.
Deputy Prime Minister Prachin Chanthong said the government had found up to 60 websites insulting the monarchy and threatening security.
The junta has asked internet service providers to block some of the sites and was seeking court orders to block other encrypted sites, he said, adding police had a team of about 100 people monitoring online content and would recruit more.
Justice Minister Paiboon Koomchaya said he had written to seven ambassadors to ask for help in prosecuting 19 lese majeste suspects living in their countries.
He did not identify the countries. He said earlier it was his duty to seek prosecutions even though he realized they would be difficult to achieve.
The junta has sought to reassure the public that a roadmap to democracy, with a general election in 2017, remains on course and there is no uncertainty over the succession which would happen after a period of mourning. It is not clear how long.
The formal procedure for the prince becoming king involves the cabinet informing the president of the legislature. The assembly then invites the prince to ascend the throne.
A former prime minister, Thanin Kraivichien, 89, was made acting head of the Privy Council of royal advisers, after its previous head, Prem Tinsulanonda, stepped in as regent until Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn ascends the throne.

OSLO The Norwegian military has released pictures taken by surveillance aircraft of a fleet of Russian warships sailing in international waters off the coast of Norway and reported to be heading to Syria.
Photos of the vessels, which include the aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov and the Pyotr Velikiy battle cruiser, were taken near Andoya island, in northern Norway on Monday.
A spokesman for the Norwegian military intelligence service said the country's armed forces frequently releases such footage, while newspaper VG quoted General Morten Haga Lunde, head of the service, as saying the eight ships involved "will probably play a role in the deciding battle for Aleppo".
Russia's TASS state news agency said in July, citing a source, that the Admiral Kuznetsov would take part in the Russian operation in Syria from October to January. The warship would carry 15 Su-33 and MIG-29K jet fighters and over 10 Ka-52K, Ka-27 and Ка-31 helicopters, it said.
Russia, which has backed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with an air campaign against the rebels fighting him, including in Aleppo, told the Norwegian armed forces the warships were on their way to the Mediterranean Sea, Norwegian media reported.
Russia has a naval base in Arkhangelsk, east of Norway's far north.

BEIRUT Hundreds of insurgents and their families left the besieged Syrian town of Mouadamiya near Damascus on Wednesday, witnesses said, in the latest rebel withdrawal from remaining pockets of opposition around the Syrian capital.
Under an amnesty deal with the government, 1,800 people including 700 rebels left Mouadamiya for Idlib, the largest area under control of the myriad insurgent groups seeking to oust President Bashar al-Assad, the witnesses said.
Assad has in recent months used siege and bombardment to force rebels from areas they control around Syria's main cities, allowing them to leave with their families and light weapons and surrendering territory to the government.
In the last two months, while attention has focused on the battle for Aleppo further north, rebels pulled out of Daraya, west of Damascus, and two suburbs to the north, allowing Assad to consolidate control around the capital which his opponents came close to encircling at one stage in the five-year conflict.
Rebels still hold areas south and east of Damascus.
Assad has made a similar offer to the besieged rebels in eastern Aleppo, where the army backed by Russian jets, have been launching an offensive and where they have declared temporary ceasefires to encourage residents to depart.
Rebels have accused the government of compelling them to accept such deals or face full scale assaults on besieged areas risking very high civilian casualties.
They also say the deals are designed to remove Sunni Muslims from sensitive areas in cities, a charge the government denies.
Wednesday's departure of rebels from Mouadamiya was not officially covered by state media and there was no announcement of the terms under which they and their families left for Idlib.
Previous agreements, including the one for neighboring Daraya in August, allowed rebels to take with them light weapons and offered civilians the option of also traveling to Idlib or moving to new accommodation in government-held areas.
Smaller groups of people have been leaving Mouadamiya since September under agreements struck with the government, including displaced people from Daraya who had sought refuge after their own homes were threatened.
Last week hundreds of insurgents and their families left two towns on the northern outskirts of Damascus, Qudsiya and al-Hama under a similar agreement.

WASHINGTON The U.S.-led coalition will not support Shi'ite militia who might seek to participate in the campaign to retake Mosul from Islamic State and it is up to Baghdad to decide their role, a top U.S. general told Pentagon reporters on Wednesday.
Late on Tuesday, a Shi'ite paramilitary force said it would support the Iraqi army's offensive west of Mosul, Islamic State's last major stronghold in Iraq, raising the risk of sectarian strife in the mainly Sunni region.
The announcement came despite warnings from human rights groups that involvement of the Popular Mobilization Force (PMF), a coalition of mostly Iranian-trained militias, could ignite sectarian violence.
"As far as the Shi'ite PMF, the coalition only supports those elements that are under the direct command and control of the Iraqi security forces -- and the Shi'ite PMF are not," said Major General Gary Volesky, the commander of U.S.-led coalition ground forces in the fight against Islamic State militants.
"So we don't support them."
The PMF said it would back Iraqi government forces advancing toward Tal Afar, about 55 km (34 miles) west of Mosul.
Volesky declined to comment on Tal Afar "because today (we're) focused on Mosul."
"As far as what the Shi'ite PMF's role is, again, that is up to the government of Iraq and we (advise) them on our recommendations," Volesky said. "But at the end of the day, that is the government of Iraq's decision."

ABUJA Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday told a group of 21 girls released by Islamist militants last week that he will "redouble" efforts to bring home about 200 still missing after the kidnapping in Chibok in 2014.
About 270 girls were seized at their school in northeastern Borno state, where Boko Haram has waged a seven-year insurgency, killing thousands of people and displacing more than 2 million.
The kidnapping prompted outrage worldwide and the girls' plight was publicized with Twitter hashtag #bringbackourgirls.
"We shall redouble our efforts to bring the rest back home," Buhari said. "Aside from rescuing them, we are assuming the responsibility for their personal, educational and professional goals and ambitions in life.
"It is not late for the girls to go back to school and continue the pursuit of their studies," he said.
Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land about the size of Belgium at the start of 2015, but Nigeria's army, aided by troops from neighboring countries, has recaptured most of it.
The group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast as well as in Niger and Cameroon.

ABUJA/DAKAR (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The 21 Nigerian schoolgirls freed by Boko Haram militants last week after two-and-a-half years' captivity urgently need support to reintegrate into their communities where they risk abuse and rejection, aid groups and psychologists said on Tuesday.
Around 220 girls were seized from their school in 2014 in Chibok in northeastern Borno state, where Boko Haram has waged a seven-year insurgency aimed at creating an Islamic state, killing thousands and displacing more than 2 million people.
The militants released 21 of the Chibok girls after the Red Cross and the Swiss government brokered a deal, and are willing to negotiate the release of 83 more, President Muhammadu Buhari's spokesman said on Sunday.
Yet the freed girls could face stigma, rejection and further trauma when they return home, according to Patricia Grey, head of women's protection and empowerment for the International Rescue Committee (IRC) in northeast Nigeria.
"Women and girls held by Boko Haram have fear and anxiety about how their families and communities will receive them ... people being scared of you is traumatizing in its own right," Grey told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"People often call former captives Boko Haram supporters or the enemy, and this could hinder girls getting the help they need as they fear the abuse will be even worse if they do so."
Many Nigerians fear those abducted by Boko Haram have been radicalized and may recruit others once home, and that their children born of rape may have been tainted by the "bad blood" of the militants, according to a report by International Alert and the U.N. children's agency (UNICEF).
This fear has been fueled by a surge in the use of children in suicide bombings by Boko Haram in West Africa, leaving those born of rape at even greater risk of being ostracized, said Gianfranco Rotigliano, acting representative for UNICEF Nigeria.

"SUFFERING IN SILENCE"
The freed Chibok girls will be assessed by health workers to identify issues such as depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder, said psychologist Fatima Akilu, who used to run a state deradicalization program for Boko Haram members.
"They will be feeling very unstable, very bewildered and overwhelmed," Akilu said. But the girls may face less stigma than others abducted by Boko Haram because of widespread support and the worldwide attention on their plight, she added.
The Islamist militants have kidnapped at least 2,000 girls and women since 2014, turning them into cooks, sex slaves and fighters, according to rights group Amnesty International.
It is unclear what will happen to the freed Chibok girls in the long-term.
Amina Ali, the first of the Chibok girls to be released from Boko Haram captivity in May, has since been held in a house in Abuja for what the state has called a "restoration process". She said in August that she "just wanted to go home".
Psychologist Somiari Demm, who counseled former Boko Haram captives sponsored to go to the United States to study, said Nigeria's mental health services were lacking.
"As a result, we end up with girls and women that are suffering in silence," said Demm, adding that support must also be provided to the girls' families after years of uncertainty.
"Any attempts to reintegrate these girls into an unstable environment will only create more instability, and exacerbate their trauma," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
A group of U.N. human rights experts said in a statement that providing support for the girls was not only a moral duty but also a legal obligation under international law.
Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium at the start of 2015, but Nigeria's army has recaptured most of the territory. The group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast, as well as in neighboring Niger and Cameroon.

LONDON Eight men were found guilty on Monday of waging what prosecutors called an "utterly abhorrent" campaign of sexual violence and intimidation against young girls in the Rotherham area of northern England 13 years ago.
The defendants faced charges including rape, sexual assault and false imprisonment relating to three victims aged as young as 13 at the time.
A 2014 inquiry headed by Professor Alexis Jay - currently the head of Britain's wider, national inquiry into historical sex abuse - found at least 1,400 children were subjected to sexual exploitation in Rotherham between 1997 and 2013.
Those convicted at Sheffield Crown Court on Monday were: Sageer Hussain, Mohammed Whied, Ishtiaq Khaliq, Waleed Ali, Asif Ali, Masoued Malik, Basharat Hussain and Naeem Rafiq. They will be sentenced on Nov. 4.
"Their victims were targeted, sexualized, and in some cases subjected to degrading and violent acts," said Peter Mann, Head of the Complex Casework Unit of Yorkshire and Humberside Crown Prosecution Service.
"Sageer Hussain in particular took a leading role in befriending the young girls, and in the case of one victim, passed her on to his friends and other associates, assisted in various ways by the other defendants," he added in a statement.
"These men’s actions are utterly abhorrent. They waged a campaign of sexual violence and intimidation against young girls."
In February, a gang of six were jailed for a combined 103 years for their parts in the rape and sexual exploitation of girls in the town.

CAIRO Egypt passed legislation on Monday to crack down on people traffickers linked to a major surge in the numbers of migrants departing from the country's Mediterranean coast on often disastrous sea journeys to Europe.
A boat carrying about 450 people capsized off Egypt's coast last month. About 202 bodies were subsequently recovered from the sea and 169 people rescued. Some 320 migrants and refugees drowned off the Greek island of Crete in June, and survivors said their boat had set sail from Egypt.
The law passed by the Egyptian parliament is the first major official step by the largest Arab nation toward developing a strategy to combat what has turned into a growing smuggling industry along its northern seaboard.
After Turkey cut a deal with the European Union to stop the flow of migrants from its territory to the continent, increasing numbers sought to cross to Italy from the North African coast this summer, especially from lawless Libya where people traffickers operate with relative impunity. But more and more migrant boats now set off from Egypt, diplomats and non-governmental groups that work with migrants say.
The new law imposes prison terms and fines on those found guilty of smuggling potential migrants or acting as brokers or middlemen. It also imposes prison sentences on those who provide shelter to trafficked migrants, and gather, transport or otherwise facilitate their journey.
While seeking to stifle the lucrative trade, the law also makes provisions to protect the rights of migrants to humanitarian treatment and access to healthcare and legal assistance, with special emphasis on women and children.
The law also stipulates the creation of a cabinet-level committee headed by Prime Minister Sherif Ismail dedicated to coordinating various national and international efforts for the prevention of illegal migration and human trafficking.
Egypt has had a law against human trafficking but the new legislation deals more specifically with illegal migrants. Migration experts who saw the law in draft form said it was clearer than previous statutes and could make it easier to prosecute smugglers and others involved in their networks.
“This is the first law on smuggling of migrants in the Middle East,” said Naela Gabr, head of the National Coordinating Committee on Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration.
"It includes a definition of smuggling of migrants. We were lacking such a definition in our law and accordingly the smugglers used to escape ... and there are the sanctions that could reach up to 25 years in prison," Gabr told Reuters.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) said last month that more than 3,200 migrants had died while trying to cross the Mediterranean this year, while more than 300,000 had reached European shores. More than 1 million Middle Eastern, African and Asian migrants entered Europe in 2015.
The IOM said the number of migrants to arrive in Europe this year likely will not reach last year's level - but the number of fatalities was virtually certain to exceed the 2015 total.

GENEVA Up to 100,000 Iraqis may flee to Syria and Turkey to escape the Iraqi government's assault aimed at ousting Islamic State from the northern city of Mosul, the United Nations refugee agency UNHCR said on Monday.
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees issued an appeal for an additional $61 million to provide tents, camps, winter items and stoves for displaced inside Iraq and new refugees needing shelter in the two neighboring countries. That brought UNHCR's overall appeal for the crisis to $196 million.
All civilians fleeing their homes "must be protected and provided with safe passage", said the International Committee of the Red Cross, which like the UNHCR is based in Geneva. ICRC teams were near Mosul to help 270,000 people with food and other emergency aid, the agency said in tweets.
"UNHCR is concerned that events in Mosul may cause up to
100,000 Iraqis to flee towards Syria and Turkey," the U.N. agency said. "Preparedness plans are underway in Syria to receive up to 90,000 Iraqi refugees."
Iraqi government forces, with air and ground support from the U.S.-led coalition, launched an offensive on Monday to drive Islamic State from Mosul, the militants' last major stronghold in the country.
Over 3 million people, nearly a tenth of the population, are already internally displaced in Iraq. Aid agencies say up to one million could flee Mosul, a city of 1.5 million where in 2014 Islamic State proclaimed a "caliphate" in Iraq and Syria.
U.N. Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq Lise Grande said in Erbil last week the U.N. was bracing for the world's biggest and most complex humanitarian effort in the battle for Mosul.
She told Reuters civilians risked being used as human shields or even gassed, noting that Islamic State has said it could use chemical weapons to defend the city.
UNHCR said that a site in Syria that previously hosted Iraqi refugees is being readied to accommodate another influx. Syria is currently home to some 26,000 Iraqi refugees.
Refugees from Mosul were expected to enter Syria at Tel Sefug village, "a crossing point mainly used by smugglers", along the border with Hasaka province, the UNHCR said. The Damascus government has an "open-door policy" towards refugees.
There were "no clear safe routes out of Mosul", leaving civilians in danger of getting caught in the cross fire or being victims of booby traps or landmines, the International Rescue Committee said in a statement.
The aid agency voiced concerns that oil burning in trenches around the city - a tactic often used by retreating ISIL troops - will be harmful, especially to children and the elderly.

TRIPOLI Libyan armed brigades allied with rival political leaders in Tripoli have exchanged sporadic gunfire and set up checkpoints in areas they control, challenging the authority of the United Nations-backed government.
Opponents of the U.N.-supported Government of National Unity (GNA) defied it on Friday by taking over a parliamentary building and demanding a new government, triggering a standoff among rival brigades operating in the city.
Since a 2011 uprising toppled autocrat Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has fallen into factional fighting among battalions of former rebels who have turned against one another, backing competing political leaders in a struggle for control.
Amid the chaos, oil production has been slashed in the OPEC member state, and people-smugglers and Islamic State militants have been able to expand their operations, a source of concern for Europe and the United States.
The GNA arrived in Tripoli in March as part of Western efforts to end Libya's instability after competing factions operated two rival governments in Tripoli and the east. But it has struggled to extend its influence over hardliners.
On Friday, leaders from the old Tripoli government, including former premier Khalifa Ghwail, and their armed brigades took over a parliament office in the Rixos Hotel that was supposed to provide offices for the State Council, one of the legislative bodies in the new unity government agreement.
Heavy gunfire rattled the capital on Saturday and Sunday and new checkpoints quickly appeared, including west of Tripoli near the Sooq Toulata area as rival brigades positioned themselves, witnesses said. Brigades have been more heavily armed than usual around the capital.
"What has happened is unfortunate and disgusting. It is an individual cause that represents no group," said Fathi Bashagha, security coordinator with pro-government forces, referring to the takeover of the building.
"We did not see any city, municipality, or political party supporting this desperate attempt."
In front of the Rixos Hotel, armed brigades loyal to the former parliament and Ghwail were stationed along with armored military vehicles. Traffic has been flowing normally in the city, though shops around the Rixos were closed.
Sporadic clashes broke out at the weekend between two armed groups in Tripoli's Zawiyat Dahmani district, but no one was hurt. Shooting was heard all over the city during the evenings.
On Monday, Tripoli was calm with businesses and shops operating as usual in the city center.
Tripoli is controlled by a patchwork of rival armed groups, some of whom who are assigned to interior or defense ministries in a quasi-official role. Some are Islamist-leaning, others allied with cities outside the capital.
With no national army, these brigades are key power brokers. Armed battalions have often stormed ministries, government offices and even parliament to exert political pressure or demand higher salaries.

MOSCOW/KIEV A prominent Russian separatist commander was assassinated in eastern Ukraine on Sunday evening, his allies said on Monday, accusing Ukrainian government forces of murdering him to try to destabilize an already fragile ceasefire.
Arseny Pavlov, a Russian national who went by the nom de guerre "Motorola", was blown up in the lift of his apartment building in Donetsk together with his bodyguard, according to Eduard Basurin, deputy defense minister in the government of the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic.
Donetsk is the biggest city in the Ukrainian region of Donbass, which pro-Russian militants seized in 2014 and where daily skirmishes and shellings test a shaky 2015 ceasefire deal.
"The bomb was placed above the lift's cabin. The blast was concentrated inside the cabin," Basurin told Reuters.
"We had intelligence from our agent networks that diversionary groups were being sent our way to kill prominent military and political leaders."
Four armed masked men claimed responsibility for the killing in a video uploaded to the Internet. The men, who appeared alongside a flag belonging to a pro-Ukrainian neo-Nazi group, said they would next target Igor Plotnitsky, leader of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, together with Alexander Zakharchenko, prime minister of the Donetsk People's Republic.
Zakharchenko said the murder amounted to a declaration of war by Ukraine and promised revenge.
Pavlov, 33, was born in Russia, and commanded the separatist "Sparta" battalion which fought Ukrainian government forces in several key battles, including the struggle for Donetsk airport.
Short and sporting a ginger beard, pro-Kremlin media and his fellow separatists cast him as a hero, but in Ukraine, many regarded him as a hate figure and a symbol of Russian expansionism.
In a 2015 telephone interview with the Kyiv Post newspaper, a man who identified himself as Pavlov was recorded as saying he had murdered 15 Ukrainian prisoners of war.
The Donetsk News Agency, an official separatist news outlet, cited Denis Pushilin, a senior pro-Russian separatist leader, as saying Pavlov's killing was a Ukrainian attempt "to rock the situation."
A spokeswoman for Ukraine's SBU security service declined to comment, but some Ukrainian officials suggested the separatist commander had been killed in rebel infighting.
"It looks like he was eliminated by his cousins in crime of this anti-human terrorist gang," Ukrainian Interior Ministry spokesman Artyom Shevchenko said on social media. "This is a sad but just end."

BEIRUT Hezbollah's Al Manar TV channel denied any explosion took place in southern Damascus's Sayeda Zeinab district, after a monitoring group reported a car bomb blast there which it said caused casualties.
Lebanese Shi'ite group Hezbollah is fighting in Syria on the side of President Bashar al-Assad.

BEIJING China's Foreign Ministry said on Monday it would retaliate after the president of Slovakia, Andrej Kiska, met visiting exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, a man accused by Beijing of promoting independence for the Himalayan region.
China regards the 80-year-old, Nobel Peace Prize-winning monk as a separatist, though he says he merely seeks genuine autonomy for Tibet, which Communist Chinese troops "peacefully liberated" in 1950.
The Dalai Lama, who is on a trip to Europe, met President Kiska on Sunday over lunch in Bratislava, the Slovak capital, according to the Dalai Lama's official website. The site showed a picture of the two men chatting.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Kiska had ignored China's "strong opposition" to the meeting, which was contrary to the "one China" policy the Slovak government has promised to uphold.
"China is resolutely opposed to this and will make a corresponding response," Hua told a daily news briefing in Beijing, without giving details.
A posting on the Slovak president's Facebook page on Oct. 16 carried pictures of the meeting with the Dalai Lama, and a note from President Kiska describing it as "a privilege".
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua said the Dalai Lama has long tried to separate Tibet from China and the government opposes any foreign official having any form of contact with him. The meeting has "broken the political basis of China-Slovak relations", Hua said.
"We demand the Slovak side clearly recognize the anti-Chinese separatist nature of the Dalai Lama clique and earnestly respect China's core interests and major concerns."
Slovakia should take steps to eliminate the negative impact of this meeting, she added.
China also expressed anger last month and threatened countermeasures after the Dalai Lama spoke at the European Parliament in the French city of Strasbourg and met its president, Martin Schulz.
Few foreign leaders are willing to meet the Dalai Lama these days, fearful of provoking a strong reaction from China, the world's second-largest economy.
The Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959 following a failed uprising against the Chinese.
Rights groups and exiles accuse China of trampling on the religious and cultural rights of the Tibetan people, charges strongly denied by Beijing, which says its rule has brought prosperity to a once backward region.

LONDON Prime Minister Theresa May is keen to listen to "differing views" among her team of top ministers to make sure Britain is fully prepared for its negotiation to leave the European Union, her spokeswoman said on Monday.
May, appointed prime minister shortly after Britain voted to leave the bloc, has called on her cabinet, which is split between those who campaigned to remain in the EU and those who wanted to leave, to get ready for the negotiations before she triggers the formal divorce procedure by the end of March.
Media reports say there are sharp disagreements between some, with the Telegraph newspaper reporting "claims" that finance minister Philip Hammond could resign over his support for a "soft Brexit" of retaining ties with the bloc.
"The prime minister is focused on making sure we prepare for the negotiations and we get the best deal for the United Kingdom," her spokeswoman told reporters.
"The PM wants to prepare fully for those negotiations. It means hearing the differing views of ministers, departments, stakeholders ... ultimately we need to make sure we are working together to ensure that we make a success of Brexit."
She added that May had full confidence in Hammond.
A source in Hammond's department said reports that the finance minister was close to resigning and was obstructing the Brexit process were "completely untrue".
May has said she will not offer a running commentary on the Brexit negotiations and her aides suggest her government has yet to come up with firm positions on all issues in the talks.
Investors are concerned that, with three leading Brexit campaigners among her closest advisers, May is taking Britain toward a "hard Brexit", or a clean break from the EU's lucrative single market to restore control over immigration.
May's spokeswoman also said the prime minister respected the independence of the Bank of England after governor Mark Carney hit back at criticism of the bank's low interest rates.

PODGORICA Montenegro's Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic emerged weakened on Monday from an election he had cast as a choice between NATO membership or subjugation to Russia.
Djukanovic, who has led the small Balkan state for a quarter of a century, faced an uphill task to assemble a coalition after a partial vote count suggested his Democratic Party of Socialists (DPS) would win 36 seats, five short of a majority in the 81-seat parliament.
Opposition parties appeared determined to form a rival coalition to eject Djukanovic, accusing him of treating the tiny country of 620,000 as a personal fiefdom where corruption and organized crime flourish.
The former Yugoslav republic is in the process of joining NATO, to the annoyance of Russia, which wants to retain influence in the Balkans and stop Montenegro and neighboring Serbia from escaping its orbit by joining the European Union.
Despite its small size, Montenegro's Adriatic coastline gives it potential strategic importance and is a powerful draw for Russian tourists. Ubiquitous Russian-language billboards advertise new luxury properties for sale.
In a midnight address to supporters, Djukanovic said he would seek a coalition with the small Social Democracy party as well as statutory representatives of the Bosniak, Croat and Albanian ethnic minorities, which would give him a slender majority.
But opposition parties were reluctant to contemplate entering a deal with the man who had accused many of them of taking Russian funding in order to scupper his plans for NATO membership.
"The DPS has been defeated and we will now see whether it will succeed in using its alchemy to deliver a winning result," said Miodrag Lekic, leader of the opposition Kljuc ("The Key") alliance, which was on course for nine seats.
Djukanovic portrayed Sunday's vote as a choice between peace, prosperity, deeper European integration and NATO membership under his leadership, and being reduced to a "Russian colony" under opposition parties, even though many also support joining NATO.
Many say the choice between NATO and Montenegro's traditional Russian and Serbian allies is artificial for a country whose economy has grown strongly on the back of Russian, Chinese and Italian investment in mining, energy and tourism.
"Corruption is like a cancer eating Montenegro inside, and that is why Djukanovic is about to win again," said Andrija Djukic, 23, a student. "This was entirely unrelated to Russia or anything else."
The Democratic Front, another opposition alliance, looked set to win 18 seats. Together, the opposition and ethnic minority representatives also looked potentially capable of cobbling together a fragile majority.
The election was marred by the threat of violence.  Authorities placed in investigative detention 20 Serb citizens who were arrested as they entered the country in the early hours of Sunday morning on suspicion of plotting armed election night attacks. Six were released on Monday morning.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - As the United Nations prepares a 20-year plan to cope with the challenges of booming urbanization, residents of the world's five biggest slums are battling to carve out a place in the cities of the future.
Home to more than 900 million people worldwide - or nearly one in every seven people - the U.N. says slums are emerging spontaneously as a "dominant and distinct type of settlement" in the 21st century.
Today one quarter of the world's city dwellers live in slums - and they are there to stay.
The U.N.'s 193 member states are set to adopt the first detailed road map to guide the growth of cities, towns and informal settlements, ensure they are sustainable, do not destroy the environment and protect the rights of the vulnerable.
Held once every 20 years, the U.N.'s Habitat III conference comes at a time when, for the first time in history, more people live in cities than rural areas.
In 2014, 54 percent of the global population lived in cities but by 2050, this is expected to rise to 66 percent.
"We live in the urban century ... when planned, built, and governed well, cities can be massive agents of positive change," UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a recent statement.
"They can be catalysts for inclusion and powerhouses of equitable economic growth. They can help us protect the environment and limit climate change. That is why we need a new vision for urbanization."
The U.N.'s policy document, titled the New Urban Agenda, says there has been "significant" improvement in the quality of life for millions of city residents over the past two decades, but the pressures of population growth and rural-to-city migration are increasing dramatically.
Billy Cobbett, director of the Cities Alliance partnership for poverty reduction and promoting sustainable cities, said urban growth in many parts of the world, particularly Africa, is not driven by rural migration alone but by population growth.
The U.N. plan stresses that providing transport, sanitation, hospitals and schools is imperative but city strategies must also "go beyond" physical improvements to integrate slums into the social, economic, cultural, and political life of cities.
Experts say this policy represents a significant shift in thinking among city planners and authorities who have historically seen bulldozers as the answer to slum settlements.
High-density communities geared to pedestrians along with properties that mix business with housing can offer lessons for management of future growth, they say.
Today, unchecked population growth and migration in many world cities – from Kenya to Mexico to India – mean slums and the informal economies and communities created around them must increasingly be seen as an important part of the wider city.

SECURITY FIRST
The U.N. roadmap highlights that a critical impediment to upgrading informal settlements and sustainable redevelopment is the lack of tenure or ownership of land or property.
In 2003, 924 million city dwellers were estimated to be without title to their homes or land and this number, according to the United Nations, is expected to have grown "exponentially".
This is a particularly pressing problem in Africa where more than half the urban population – or 62 percent of people – live in shanty towns and 90 percent of rural land is undocumented.
Living without secure tenure means living under constant threat of eviction. Slum dwellers who have no way of proving ownership of assets also have no access to credit, further eroding any motivation to improve homes and neighborhoods.
For governments, particularly in poorer countries, slum areas without title are a particularly vexed problem as the great majority are not mapped, little is known about demographics or spatial use, and the way residents have settled is often so dense that housing and services are hard to fit in.
The lack of basic information also means they cannot use the most commonly used official land registration systems.

ROADS BATTLE IN KENYA
Nairobi's vast Kibera settlement - coming from the Nubian for forest or jungle - is described as Africa's largest slum and comprises more than a dozen villages from Soweto East to Kianda.
A mix of ethnic groups make their home there although nobody knows exact numbers. According to the last Kenyan census, the population was 170,070 in 2009 but other sources, including the UN, estimate the settlement is now home to anywhere between 400,000 and one million people.
Much of Kibera's employment comes from the nearby industrial area of Nairobi but an estimated half of Kibera's residents are jobless, surviving on less than $1 a day.
Only 27 percent of Kibera's 50,000 students attend government schools, with most attending informal institutions set up by residents and churches, according to the charity Map Kibera. Violence, alcohol and drugs are rife and clean water scarce.
Kibera's residents also struggle with no garbage services, free flowing sewage and the slum became infamous globally for the so–called 'flying toilets' - throw away plastic bags used by residents forced to relieve themselves outdoors.
Yet amidst the squalor there are many residents like Peter Nyagasera and his family who have worked tirelessly to improve their neighborhood.
Nyagasera and his wife Sarah Oisebe up part of a former dump site in Kibera to create a playground for the resident-run school and a children's center for orphans. For these children, he says, school is the only place they receive a hot meal each day.
But despite all their hard work, the community has been forced to mount a court challenge to stop construction of a road planned to cut through the area and demolish the school - and this community is not alone.
A second group of residents from the marginalized Nubian group are also without formal titles and fighting for ownership to protect their homes, many recently marked with red crosses for demolition to make way for the highway.
Their case will be heard in Kenya's High Court in November but residents are despondent.
"Children will suffer," said Nyagasera.

WORKING SLUMS
One of the toughest and most vulnerable aspects of life in the slums is the battle to find regular work. Cities are job hubs and proximity to employment has long been a major driver of slum development and expansion.
Globally, according to the International Labour Organization, 200 million people in slums were without jobs in 2013 while UNESCO estimates that more than a quarter of the young, urban poor earn little more than $1.25 a day.
Despite this, in many developing economies, the engine room of job creation is found in the heart of informal economies like those in the favelas of Rio or the bustling hives of activity in big Indian cities like Mumbai.
Author Robert Neuwirth spent four years researching his book, 'Shadow Cities', which looked at informal economies in global shanty towns. He believes these unlicensed economic networks are vastly under appreciated in scope and power and estimates they account for some 1.8 billion jobs globally.
"It's a huge number and if it were all together in a single political system, this economic system would be worth $10  trillion a year. That would make it the second largest economy in the world," he said.
In Mumbai, where an estimated one million people live in the bustling Dharavi slum, resident-owned small businesses - from leather workers and potters to recycling networks - have created an informal economy with annual turnover of about $1 billion.
Residents live and work in the same place and are now campaigning actively to ensure that any redevelopment of their homes or construction of new housing takes into account the need for home-based ground floor workspaces.
"People think of slums as places of static despair as depicted in films such as 'Slumdog Millionaire'," said Sanjeev Sanyal, an economist and writer, referring to the Academy Award-winning movie that exposed the gritty underbelly of Dharavi.
"If one looks past the open drains and plastic sheets, one will see that slums are ecosystems buzzing with activity... Creating neat low-income housing estates will not work unless they allow for many of the messy economic and social activities that thrive in slums," he said.
Rahul Srivastava, a founder of Mumbai's Institute of Urbanology, said the biggest impediment to upgrading informal settlements is their "illegitimate" status due to the absence of title.
Settlements that are home to fifth-generation migrants cannot be classed as "informal", he says, and it is high time the narrow perception of these neighborhoods is changed.

DYING FOR A PEE
In Cape Town, the shanty towns of Khayelitsha stretch for miles, a grim brown sea of ramshackle wood and iron shacks that confront visitors arriving at the airport but are out of view of the city's glass towers or the leafy suburbs on nearby hills.
Khayelitsha's population, according to the 2011 Census, is 99 percent black.
Jean Comaroff, a Harvard professor of anthropology and African Studies, said despite "valiant efforts" from city authorities and activists in recent years, Cape Town itself still offers little room for its slum residents beyond "servitude" - work as domestics or in the service industries.
"It is poised on a knife edge and the differences between the beauty of the city itself and what you see on the Cape flats is the starkest you will ever see in the world." she said.
In Cape Town, city authorities are not only struggling with providing housing and sanitation for a burgeoning population but face the task of trying to reverse the apartheid era engineering that built the spatial segregations that still exist today.
Experts say that not only is there not enough new affordable housing but what has been built remains distant from employment, forcing long commutes for those who are lucky enough to work.
Inside, however, residents are struggling – and at times losing their lives – due the absence of the most basic service – toilets.
According to the Social Justice Coalition's Axolile Notywala, using a toilet can be one of the most dangerous activities for residents and a major problem for women and children.
A Commission of Inquiry into Policing in the shanty towns in 2012 found that 12,000 households have no access to toilets and the link between violence, particularly against women and children, and the need to walk long distances at night was highlighted by researchers and activists.
A mathematical model built by Yale University researchers last year concluded that doubling the number of toilets to 11,300 in Khayelitsha would reduce sexual assaults by a third.
"Higher toilet installation and maintenance costs would be more than offset by lower sexual assault costs," lead researcher Gregg Gonsalves told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.

DIY SERVICES
Across the world in Pakistan, Orangi Town in the port city of Karachi is believed home to around 2.4 million people although nobody knows exactly as the last census was in 1998.
Widely cited as Asia's largest slum, it sprawls over 8,000 acres - the equivalent of about 4,500 Wembley football pitches.
Known locally as "katchi abadis", the first informal settlements emerged in the wake of the Indo-Pakistani war of 1947, which led to a huge influx of refugees. Unable to cope with the numbers - by 1950 the population had increased to 1 million from 400,000 - the government issued refugees "slips" giving them permission to settle on any vacant land.
The settlement's population really exploded in the early 1970s when thousands of people migrated from East Pakistan after the 1971 war of independence, which led to the establishment of the Republic of Bangladesh.
Since then, land has also been traded informally, usually through a middleman who subdivided plots of both government and private land and sold them to the poor.
Unlike many other slums worldwide the lack of services - not housing - is the major problem.
Communities have built two and three-room houses out of concrete blocks manufactured locally, say activists. Each house is home to between eight and 10 people and an informal economy of micro businesses has emerged as people created livelihoods.
In the early 1980s, however, some residents within the enormous slum decided they'd had enough of waiting for governments unwilling or unable to fund sanitation and so embarked on building a sewerage project on a "self-help" basis.
Now globally renowned, the Orangi Pilot Project (OPP) has helped residents design, fund and build their own sewerage systems and pipelines and, since 1980, has brought latrines to more than 108,000 households in a project continuing today.
To date, say OPP statistics, 96 percent of the settlement's 112,562 households have latrines with residents footing the bill of 132,026,807 Pakistani rupees ($1.26 million) - all DIY.
"In fact, people in the town now consider the streets as part of their homes because they have invested in them and that's why they maintain and clean the sewers too," said OPP's director, Saleem Aleemuddin.

BOTTOM UP DEVELOPMENT
Jose Castillo, an urban planner and architect in Mexico City, says that Ciudad Neza, home to 1.2 million people, should serve as a model for other blighted urban areas and slums.
Short for Nezahualcóyotl, Neza sits on the bed of Lake Texcoco which was slowly drained in a bid to combat devastating flooding over a century and more.
However the dry land ended up being too salty for farming and was slowly picked up by developers who laid out a grid of streets and sold off boxy parcels, most without proper titles.
The settlement really grew in a burst of urban migration in the mid-20th century when new arrivals to Neza set up shacks of wood and cardboard, living without electricity, a sewage system or running water, schools or paved roads. Old timers remember in the early days they'd be lucky if a bus came every two hours.
Victoria Gomez Calderon, 82, moved to Neza from eastern Mexico as a young woman, and remembers clearly the putrid remains of the lake just a half block from her tiny home.
"It was a pure wasteland," she said.
In the early 1970s, residents banded together to demand services and a government programme to formalize ownership and provide land titles.
Neza's reputation as the world's largest slum, coined when its population was combined with two other blighted areas decades ago, no longer applies, they said.
Today, despite its severe problems from continuing poor access to transport and schools to high crime rates, Neza's development holds lessons in growth and resilience for others.
Planner Castillo says Neza is teeming with micro entrepreneurs working from home or sharing spaces in what would be called co-working in trendier places.
"My argument is let's stop asking what urban planning can do to fix the city and let's focus on understanding where we could also learn from those processes," he said.
"There's a strong sense of pride in place. It's a community based on the notion that jointly these people transformed this territory."
Priscilla Connolly Dietrichsen, a professor of urban sociology at the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana in Mexico City, agrees.
"The story isn't, 'Oh dear, dear, what a terrible slum.' In a way, it's a success story, in spite of the present problems," she said.

SLUMS ARE CITIES
The 23-page draft document up for adoption at Habitat III in Quito is the result of months of closed-door negotiations, held in several nations, including Indonesia and the United States.
Some critics are disappointed the policy framework contains no tangible targets and will be non-binding on member states.
"It's easy for governments to sign something that is not enforceable," said Michael Cohen, a former senior urban affairs official with the World Bank, who has advised U.N. Habitat.
"It doesn't have much bite. It talks a lot about commitments but has no dates, places or numbers."
Supporters, however, argue the New Urban Agenda will not only focus attention on the urgent need for holistic planning of cities but also work to fundamentally change the way urban growth is debated and discussed both nationally and globally.
Important drivers of planned growth are a well-oiled system of land ownership, title and tenure which then paves the way for governments to collect revenue to pay for new services.
Equally important is the need for concerted planning approaches so new hospitals, bus services, and schools are placed where they are needed with thought given to future growth and employment opportunities.
There has, however, also been some criticism of the U.N.'s shift from a traditionally rural focus to a city driven, urban one and its failure to link the New Urban Agenda to the U.N.'s  Sustainable Development Goals and climate change benchmarks.
Shivani Chaudry, executive director of the Housing and Land Rights Network in India, said the bias away from rural interests in the New Urban Agenda will leave many people behind.
She said many countries had argued forcefully for the adoption of goals and targets, for example a reduction in numbers of the homeless, increases in housing for the poor or a drop in forced evictions, but nothing was agreed.
"Rural populations have not been adequately represented: farmers, forest dwellers, indigenous and coastal communities - all suffer the consequences of uncontrolled urbanization," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"There is so much exploitation of these people and our fear is that so many have been left out."

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Iraqi government forces, with air and ground support from the U.S.-led coalition, launched an offensive on Monday to drive Islamic State from the northern city of Mosul, the militants' last major stronghold in the country.
The United States predicted Islamic State would suffer"a lasting defeat" as Iraqi forces mounted their biggest operation since U.S. troops withdrew in 2011.
The United Nations said last week it was bracing for the world's biggest and most complex humanitarian effort in the battle for the city, which could make up to 1 million people homeless and see civilians used as human shields or even gassed.
More than 3 million people are already displaced in Iraq as a result of conflicts involving Islamic State. Medicine is in short supply in Mosul, and food prices have risen sharply.
Here are what some aid agencies are anticipating:

STEPHEN O'BRIEN, U.N. UNDER SECRETARY GENERAL FOR HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS
Families are at extreme risk of being caught in cross-fire or targeted by snipers. Tens of thousands of Iraqi girls, boys, women and men may be under siege or held as human shields. Thousands may be forcibly expelled or trapped between the fighting lines.
Children, women, the elderly and disabled will be particularly vulnerable. I renew my call on all parties to the conflict to uphold their obligations under international humanitarian law to protect civilians and ensure they have access to the assistance they are entitled to and deserve. Nothing is more important.

KHALIL SLEIMAN, WORLD VISION'S RESPONSE MANAGER FOR NORTHERN IRAQ
The violence will have taken a devastating emotional toll on children, many of whom will need years of specialist support to rebuild their lives, come to terms with what happened, and to regain some kind of normality. Children always bear the brunt of conflict and we call for humane treatment at every stage of the process of the Mosul operation – including screening when boys as young as 14 may be separated from their families.

ARAM SHAKARAM, SAVE THE CHILDREN'S DEPUTY COUNTRY DIRECTOR IN IRAQ 
Unless safe routes to escape the fighting are established, many families will have no choice but to stay and risk being killed by crossfire or bombardment, trapped beyond the reach of humanitarian aid with little food or medical care. Those that try to flee will be forced to navigate a city ringed with booby traps, snipers and hidden landmines.
Without immediate action to ensure people can flee safely, we are likely to see bloodshed of civilians on a massive scale. Vast sums of money have been spent on military planning, equipment and ordinance — but an investment in the safety of children must be the priority.

FILIPPO GRANDI, HEAD OF THE U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY UNHCR
As the Mosul offensive begins, protecting civilians must be an essential part of military strategies. This is crucial for the future of Iraq.

ANDRES GONZALES, OXFAM'S COUNTRY DIRECTOR IN IRAQ
The people of Mosul have already suffered enough. Genuinely safe routes must be provided so they can escape the fighting and get to the shelter and help they need. All armed forces should avoid the use of heavy weapons in built-up and populated areas and do everything possible to protect civilians.

WOLFGANG GRESSMANN, NORWEGIAN REFUGEE COUNCIL'S COUNTRY DIRECTOR IN IRAQ
We fear the humanitarian consequences of this operation will be massive. Establishing genuinely safe routes out of the city for civilians is now the top priority; nothing is more important.
The way this offensive is carried out, as well as the treatment of the fleeing civilians at the hands of the fighting forces, and the effectiveness of the humanitarian response, will determine the future of Iraq and how Iraqis will live side by side with each other. We cannot let Iraqi civilians down again in this moment of truth.

BERLIN At least 11 schools in eastern Germany received threatening emails on Monday prompting police to deploy officers, but there was no indication of actual danger.
"We found out from some schools in Leipzig this morning that they had received an email with threatening content. They were threatened with violence," a Leipzig police spokeswoman said.
At least nine schools in Leipzig and two in the city of Magdeburg received the emails.
"It became clear very quickly that there was not a serious threat," said a police spokeswoman in Magdeburg.

DENPASAR, Indonesia A bridge connecting two small islands near the Indonesian resort island of Bali collapsed on Sunday, killing nine people and injuring at least 30, officials said.
There were too many people passing over the bridge for a religious ceremony when it collapsed at 6 PM local time, police officer Arendra Wahyudi said, adding some motorbikes also fell into the water.
The sea beneath the bridge was less than two meters deep, Wahyudi said, but many of the victims were crushed by debris.
All of the victims were locals, he said.
Indonesia's search and rescue agency stopped the search for the day at 9 PM local time, but will resume at daybreak on Monday, its spokesman said.

STOCKHOLM Swedish police have opened an arson investigation into a fire at an asylum center in southern Stockholm early on Sunday which damaged a building and led 37 residents to be evacuated.
The fire began in the early hours of Sunday morning and was spotted by a passing police patrol. None of the residents at the center were injured in the blaze which was put out by fire fighters after several hours.
The police said they had begun a preliminary arson investigation but that they currently had no suspects and were unaware of any threats against the asylum center.
"We will now see if anybody in the area may have seen something," Sven-Erik Olsson at the Stockholm police's central despatch unit said. "The technical investigation of the scene will begin tomorrow."
What appeared to be an attempt at arson at the center had been discovered the night before when oil canisters had been left in an oven with the heat turned up, but staff were able to stop any blaze from erupting.
Sweden took in a record 163,000 asylum seekers last year, the most of any European country relative to the size of its population, before a government clamp down saw the numbers fall sharply.
Tensions over immigration have risen in the Nordic country in recent years and helped boost support for the opposition anti-immigration Sweden Democrats, now the third biggest party in parliament.

YANGON A ferry sank in a river in northwestern Myanmar, killing at least 32 people with scores missing, a rescue official said on Monday.
About 150 people had been rescued from the Chindwin river in the Sagaing region after the ferry capsized on Saturday, said Sa Willy Frank, head of the regional relief department.
As of about 4 p.m. on Monday, 32 bodies had been recovered, leaving more than 60 people still unaccounted for amid a continuing salvage operation, he said.
Kyaw Htay Lwin, a lawmaker in the Sagaing regional parliament, said the number of missing could be higher.
"I heard from witnesses that the boat was packed with at least 300 passengers, despite its official capacity of around 120,” he said.
The ferry was traveling from Homalin to Monywa when it sank at about 5 a.m. on Saturday close to Kani, about 85 miles (137 km) northwest of Myanmar's former royal capital, Mandalay.
Marine accidents are common in Myanmar, where many people rely on crowded boats that are often in a state of disrepair for transport.
Sixty-four people drowned off the western state of Rakhine when an overloaded ferry sank in bad weather in March 2015.

LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan Afghan government troops say they have fought Taliban forces to a standstill outside the capital of southern Helmand province, but the city remains surrounded after the insurgents launched one of their most brazen offensives.
A center of illicit opium production as well as a traditional Taliban stronghold, Helmand has been one of the areas that suffered the most violence in the insurgents' battle to topple the Western-backed government in Kabul.
In recent weeks, Taliban fighters battled their way into the outskirts of Lashkar Gah, the provincial capital, in an attack that was only blunted after hundreds of Afghan commandos were airlifted into the area.
Now officials on both sides say heavy casualties have forced the Taliban to regroup.
"Our forces, backed by foreigners, have killed hundreds of Taliban fighters during night raids in the last 24 hours," said General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai, commander of the army's 215th Corps in Helmand.
Afghan soldiers and police, in some cases aided by American air strikes and special forces advisers, are now working to try to push the Taliban back from the city limits, said senior police official Mohammad Hakim Hangaar.
The Taliban does not have a new plan to overrun the city, but intends to "keep it under siege as long as possible," said one Taliban commander, who asked not to be named for his own security.
Taliban leaders threw into the attack on the city hundreds of fighters from neighboring provinces, but many of them were killed or injured in weeks of heavy fighting, said another Taliban commander.
Afghan forces have also suffered heavy casualties however, leaving Lashkar Gah effectively under siege.
Last week up to 100 soldiers and police were killed in a series of ambushes as they tried to escape to the provincial capital from positions encircled by the Taliban for days.
The NATO-led military coalition has several hundred troops based in Helmand. The troops, mostly American, are largely confined to an advisory role but U.S. air strikes have been used to help the Afghans.
General John Nicholson, the top commander of U.S. and coalition troops in Afghanistan, has vowed to do everything to keep Lashkar Gah from falling to the Taliban.
But some Afghan elders have questioned if the efforts are sufficient, as thousands of residents have fled the latest fighting and Taliban control or contest most of the province.

ISTANBUL Some 3,000 Iraqi forces trained by Turkey are taking part in a U.S.-led operation to drive Islamic State from the Iraqi city of Mosul, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus said on Monday.
Earlier, military sources told Reuters about half of the 3,000 Turkish-trained forces were participating, while the other half were being kept in reserve.
Turkey has been locked in a row with Iraq's central government over the presence of Turkish troops at a camp in northern Iraq and over who should take part in the assault on Mosul.

BERLIN German Chancellor Angela Merkel is willing to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin on the Ukraine crisis but no meeting has been set and progress needs to be made on the peace process, her spokesman Steffen Seibert said on Monday.
"It remains the case that the chancellor is ready for such a meeting if the opportunity for progress arises, if we can make progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreement in the interests of the people in eastern Ukraine," Seibert said.
"I cannot announce a date today," he added at a regular government news conference.


BEIJING China's defense ministry said on Monday it was paying close attention to this week's navy drills between the United States and South Korea, and urged them to exercise restraint and not exacerbate regional tensions.
China has been angered by a decision to place an advanced U.S. anti-missile system in South Korea, saying it will threaten China's own security and do nothing to calm things down with nuclear-armed North Korea.
Seoul and Washington say the missile system is purely to act as a defense against North Korean missiles, and have denied it is aimed at Beijing.
In a brief statement, China's Defence Ministry said it was "paying close attention" to the joint U.S.-South Korean naval drills, which feature the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier.
"We hope the relevant sides remain calm and exercise restraint, and not do anything to exacerbate regional tensions," it added, without elaborating.
Tension on the Korean peninsula has been high this year, beginning with North Korea's fourth nuclear test in January, which was followed by a satellite launch, a string of tests of various missiles, and its fifth and largest nuclear test last month.
China is isolated North Korea's most important economic and diplomatic backer, but Beijing has been infuriated by its nuclear and missile tests and signed up for strong United Nations sanctions against Pyongyang.
However, China says the United States and Washington have a responsibility to lower the temperature as well, including not carrying out military drills.

BEIJING China has zero tolerance for non-voluntary organ transplants and is fighting corruption in its fledgling donor system, an official who has led reform said on Monday, as Beijing seeks to leave behind an era of controversial organ harvesting.
Last year, China officially ended systematic use of organs from executed prisoners in transplant procedures, a practice long condemned by international human rights groups and medical ethicists.
Authorities keen to promote an image of a donor system more in keeping with China's growing prominence have cracked down on a black market in organ trafficking and stepped up public donor rates to help meet a huge demand for transplants.
Despite challenges with the corruption underlying illicit organ trade, China is working hard to improve the system and increase transparency, said Huang Jiefu, the director of the China Organ Donation and Transplantation Committee.
"Since 2015, I can guarantee that in our system 100 percent are voluntary citizen donors," Huang told reporters at a conference on organ donation attended by international experts, including some from the World Heath Organization (WHO).
"Because China is a big country with 1.3 billion people and regional development is uneven, occasional legal violations are unavoidable," said Huang, while accepting that corruption still existed in the system.
"But the Chinese government has zero tolerance for this kind of legal violation," added the former deputy health minister, who is also an Australian-trained transplant surgeon.
China conducted about 11,000 organ transplants last year, the WHO has said, although doubts persist whether the number of illegal, undocumented operations is much higher.
Beijing has repeatedly denied accusations by human rights researchers and scholars that it forcibly takes organs from prisoners of conscience.
To curb illicit organ trade, the government in 2007 banned transplants from living donors, except for spouses, blood relatives and step- or adopted family members.
Despite the controversies, global experts at the high-profile conference in Beijing's Great Hall of the People praised China for its efforts to remake its organ donation system.
China has made undeniable reforms, said Philip O'Connell, a former president of The Transplantation Society, a non-government body based in Montreal.
"It's been good to see that this debate is moving on beyond the first big issue, which was where were you getting your organs from," he said.
It is now China's responsibility to prove it is implementing the law, said Francis Delmonico, a surgery professor at Harvard Medical School, adding, "I am confident the government is committed to fulfil that ethical principle."

TOKYO Japan may accelerate around $1 billion of planned spending to upgrade its ballistic missile defenses in the wake of rocket tests suggesting North Korea is close to fielding a more potent medium-range missile, three government sources told Reuters.
The outlays, currently in a budget request for the year starting April, includes money to assess a new missile defense layer - either Lockheed Martin Corp's (LMT.N) Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) system or Aegis Ashore, a land-based version of the ballistic missile defense system used by vessels in the Sea of Japan.
It also covers money to improve the range and accuracy of PAC-3 Patriot batteries, said the sources familiar with the proposal, who asked not to be identified because they are not authorized to talk to the media.
Any rollout of THAAD or Aegis Ashore could, however, still take years, the sources noted. Accelerated spending on Patriot missile batteries is also unlikely to deliver upgrades much quicker because of the limited capacity of the companies involved - Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (7011.T) and Raytheon Co (RTN.N) - to speed up already tight production schedules.
"It nonetheless has symbolic value," said one of the sources.
As much as 300 billion yen ($2.9 billion) of defense funding will be included in a third supplementary budget, the Sankei newspaper reported earlier. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government has yet to say whether it will ask lawmakers to approve additional outlays before deliberations begin on next year's budget.
Officials at Japan's Ministry of Defence were not immediately available to comment.

ARMS RACE
Pyongyang's apparent technological progress on missiles has been faster than anticipated, exposing Japan to a heightened threat, a senior Japanese military commander told Reuters earlier this month.
Tokyo and Pyongyang have been locked in an arms race for two decades after North Korea fired a missile over Japan in 1998.
North Korea has test fired at least 21 ballistic missiles and conducted two nuclear tests so far this year. On June 22, a medium range Musudan rocket reached an altitude of 1,000 km (620 miles) on a lofted trajectory, potentially beyond the range of Aegis destroyers the Sea of Japan that are armed with SM-3 missiles designed to hit warheads at the edge of space.
That leaves older PAC-3 Patriot missiles protecting major cities including Tokyo as a last line of defense. Their upgrade program will not deliver the first improved batteries until the 2020, in time for the Tokyo Olympics.
Warheads from missiles such as Pyongyang's Rodong, with an estimated range of 1,300 km (810 miles), travel at speeds of up to 3 km (2 miles) a second. Payloads on rockets like the Musudan, that can fly as far as 3,000 km (1,860 miles), plunge from space at least twice as fast.
Japan next year plans to acquire a more powerful version of the SM-3 it is jointly developing with the United States, dubbed the Block IIA. It has not, however, said when the first will be deployed.


BANGKOK Thailand has sought to dispel any concern about a royal succession after Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn said he would delay his ascension to the throne while he mourns his father, and the government stressed on Sunday it was working as normal.
King Bhumibol Adulyadej died on Thursday after seven decades on the throne. He was 88.
The prospect of complications in the succession in the politically divided country could alarm financial markets, but the military government has been quick to quash any such speculation.
The crown prince has requested that his succession be delayed for an unspecified period, so he can grieve with the people, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha has said.
The government has not set a date for the royal cremation but a deputy prime minister said the prince had asked that it be  held after a year of mourning, and the coronation would take place after the cremation.
The formal procedure for him to become king, which involves the president of the legislature inviting him to ascend the throne, can happen at any time before his coronation.
In the meantime, the head of the royal advisory council, a 96-year-old former army chief and prime minister, Prem Tinsulanonda, will stand in as regent.
A semi-official biography of King Bhumibol has a short section on Prem, noting that he was accused of involvement in a 2006 coup that removed populist prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra from power.
On Saturday, the prince held an audience with Prem and Prayuth and asked them to pass on his reassurance to the people, Prayuth said in a televised address.
"He asked the people not to be confused or worry about the country's administration or even about the succession," Prayuth said. "He said at this time everyone is sad, he is still sad, so every side should wait until we pass this sad time ... When the religious ceremony and funeral have passed for a while, then it will be an appropriate time to proceed."
Government spokesman Sansern Kaewkamnerd told reporters on Sunday the prime minister wanted to reassure the public about the government's work and a cabinet meeting would go ahead as normal on Tuesday so administration "can continue seamlessly".
King Bhumibol, who was the world's longest-reigning monarch, was revered as a father figure and symbol of unity in a country riven by political crises over the years, most recently by a power struggle between the military-led establishment and populist political forces.

LESE-MAJESTE LAWS
Many Thais worry about a future without him.
Thailand's strict lese-majeste laws, which have been applied rigorously since a military government took power in a 2014 coup, have left little room for public discussion about the succession.
Mourners dressed in black from across Thailand have flocked to Bangkok's gilded Grand Palace to pay homage to the only king most of them have ever known.
Buddhist monks have been chanting prayers beside his coffin in an imposing throne hall, and they will chant for 100 days as part of the funeral rites.
Though the mood is somber, and almost everyone is dressed in black, shopping malls, markets, cinemas and even some bars have been open.
Thailand's battered stocks recovered ground on Friday on hope for a smooth transition and shares were likely to rise again on Monday, said Kasem Prunratanamala, head of research at CIMB Securities.
"The market should continue to rebound," he said. "Nobody would dare do anything that causes problems for the country."
Prince Vajiralongkorn does not enjoy the same adoration his father earned over a lifetime on the throne. He has married and divorced three times, and has spent much of his life outside Thailand, often in Germany.
Though the king designated his only son crown prince in 1972, shortly afterwards he also raised the possibility of the eligibility of a princess becoming the monarch.
The government has issued guidelines to media saying programs and advertising should not show "improper scenes such as entertaining, dancing" or violence.
Information related to the king's death must be approved by authorized bodies, while criticism or analysis would not be allowed, the government has said, the Nation newspaper reported.
Thailand's three main mobile service providers said  customers should report "inappropriate content on the royal institution" on social media.
Prayuth, a former army chief who overthrew a populist government in 2014, has promised an election next year. He has not said if it might be postponed because of the mourning.
The military has for decades invoked its duty to defend the monarchy to justify its intervention in politics. It recently pushed through a new constitution that grants it oversight of civilian governments.

BANGKOK Thailand's main mobile telecoms operators instructed customers on Sunday to report "inappropriate content about the royal institution", as the government steps up scrutiny for material deemed insulting to the monarchy.
King Bhumibol Adulyadej died on Thursday after seven decades on the throne. His son, Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, is due to become the next king after a period of mourning.
Thailand has a tough law against lese majeste, or insulting the monarchy. Convictions have become more frequent, and punishments more severe, under a military government that seized power in 2014.
Mobile operators Advanced Info Service Pcl (AIS) , Total Access Communication Pcl and True Move, a unit of True Corp, posted instructions on a messaging app and on their Facebook pages, for how to report Facebook posts and Youtube videos.
True said it was following a request from the broadcasting regulator, the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC).
"The NBTC has asked all mobile operators to send the instruction to our clients," Pimolpan Siriwongwan-ngam, True's head of public relations, told Reuters.
"We’re only acting as channels to spread the message."
Spokeswomen for AIS and Total Access confirmed they had followed the NBTC guideline.
The operators said people should send URLs or screenshots of websites deemed offensive to the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology and the NBTC.
On Friday, the NBTC said it had asked internet service providers to monitor content and block anything inappropriate.
Operators must also inform platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, and messaging apps, to block such content.
The failure of internet providers to block inappropriate content when it is found would be considered a crime, NBCT secretary-general Takorn Tantasith said in a statement.
Information ministry spokesman Chatchai Khunpitiluck said some content hurt the feelings of people grieving for the revered king.
"Many heartbroken Thais are quite sensitive. When they see illegal content that offends them, they'll be more stressed," he said. "We have to let them know about channels to report content to relieve their sense of helplessness."
Chatchai said more people had come across content they deemed inappropriate, partly because more people were going online to read about the king since his death.
Police and the MICT declined to say how many complaints they had received.
The government had a hotline for reporting content, Suwaphan Tanyuvardhana, minister attached to the Prime Minister's Office, told Reuters.    Police said they were intensifying monitoring the internet.

LES CAYES Haitians desperate for relief from hunger and sickness in the wake of Hurricane Matthew looted United Nations trucks on Saturday during a short visit to a hard-hit port town by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who promised more aid.
The Category 4 hurricane tore through Haiti on Oct. 4, killing about 1,000 people and leaving more than 1.4 million in need of humanitarian aid, including 175,000 made homeless.
Flooding has triggered a new wave of cholera infections, a disease introduced to Haiti by U.N. peacekeepers a few months after the country's last major humanitarian crisis, a destructive 2010 earthquake.
"We are going to mobilize as many resources and as much medical support as we can to first of all stop the cholera epidemic and second support the families of the victims," Ban said at a news conference. He promised a new trustee fund to tackle cholera.
The storm also disrupted power, communications and transport links. Essential relief such as roofing, food and medicines has been slow to reach many areas, prompting locals to blockade roads to try to stop passing trucks, and some cases of looting.
"I firmly condemn all attacks against humanitarian convoys. Today I personally witnessed a WFP (World Food Program) truck being attacked," Ban said during his one-day stop in Haiti, saying such incidents hurt those most in need.
A coordinator for the American wing of the World Health Organization said the U.N. base in Les Cayes that Ban arrived at was shut down after looting of two World Food Programme food containers outside the base on Saturday. The coordinator requested anonymity because she was not authorized to speak to the media.
"We understand the impatience and the anger of the population who are waiting for emergency relief. We are doing all we can to facilitate the arrival of the assistance soon as possible," Ban said.
He visited a school housing hurricane victims, promising to help them and urging them to "stay strong." As he approached his car to leave the school amid heavy security, locals shouted, "Our houses were destroyed. ... Help us!"
Ban's visit was an opportunity for the South Korean to burnish his legacy at the world body before his final term expires at year end.
Ban's tenure has coincided with rape allegations in Central African Republic and a cholera epidemic in Haiti, both blamed on U.N. peacekeepers.
Cholera has stalked the regions of Haiti affected by the hurricane, as towns dotting the coastline - many of which had not had the disease in months - have reported spikes in the number of cases and deaths. Many Haitians lack access to drinkable water after the storm.
Haiti had no documented cholera cases until 2010, months after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake leveled much of the capital city of Port-au-Prince.
Multiple scientific studies have traced the outbreak to a base in Mirebalais used by Nepalese peacekeepers, about an hour outside of the capital, and the strain of cholera is virtually identical to one endemic in Nepal.

WASHINGTON The United States and the rest of the U.S.-led international coalition stand ready to support Iraq "in the difficult fight ahead," U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said on Sunday as Baghdad announced its offensive to retake Mosul from Islamic State.
"This is a decisive moment in the campaign to deliver ISIL a lasting defeat," Carter said in a statement, using an acronym for Islamic State.
"We are confident our Iraqi partners will prevail against our common enemy and free Mosul and the rest of Iraq from ISIL's hatred and brutality."‎


TOKYO A Japanese foreign ministry spokesman said on Monday that Tokyo was not discussing with Moscow the joint administration of disputed islands held by Russia in the hope of unblocking an issue that has bedevilled their relations for 70 years.
The Nikkei business daily reported on Monday that Japan was  considering joint administration of the islands and that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe hoped to convince Russian President Vladimir Putin when they meet on Dec. 15 in Japan to begin negotiations on the proposal. The paper cited unidentified Japanese and Russian government sources.
The dispute over the four islands north of Japan's Hokkaido has prevented Tokyo and Moscow signing a peace treaty formally ending the war they fought with each other in World War Two.
"We deny the Nikkei report that Japan and Russia are discussing the joint administration of the Northern Territories," Japanese foreign ministry spokesman Yasuhira Kawamura told Reuters in an email, referring to the islands off Hokkaido known in Russia as the Southern Kuriles.
"There is no change in Japan's fundamental position that Japan will conclude the peace treaty with Russia by resolving the issue of the possession of the four northern islands."
A Japanese ruling party source told Reuters that a proposal such as that reported by Nikkei was not very realistic.
Japan has long demanded that the sovereignty of all the territories be resolved before a peace treaty is signed, but some politicians and experts have said Abe may alter course.
Last month, Abe told parliament: "I will resolve the territorial issue, end the abnormal situation in which no peace treaty has been concluded even 71 years after the war, and cultivate the major possibility of Japan-Russia cooperation in areas such as the economy and energy."
The newspaper said Tokyo hoped to negotiate a return of the two smaller islands while adopting joint control of two larger islands.
Japan's position has been to assert its sovereignty over all of the disputed islands, but Russia regularly cites a 1956 joint declaration, never put into effect, that stipulates the return of the two smaller isles to Japan.

NIIGATA, Japan Shares in Tokyo Electric Power (9501.T) fell 8 percent on Monday after an anti-nuclear candidate won an upset victory in a Japanese regional election, in a blow to its attempts to restart the world's biggest atomic power station and a challenge to the government's energy policy.
The election of Ryuichi Yoneyama, 49, a doctor-lawyer who has never held office, is a setback for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's energy policy, which relies on rebooting reactors that once met about 30 percent of the nation's needs. All but two are shut down in the wake of the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.
Reviving the seven-reactor giant, with capacity of 8 gigawatts, is key to saving Tepco, which was brought low by the Fukushima explosions and meltdowns, and then the repeated admissions of cover-ups and safety lapses after the world's worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.
Yoneyama won the vote on Sunday after a campaign dominated by concerns over the future of the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa power station and nuclear safety, beating Tamio Mori, 67, who was backed by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and initially favored for an easy victory.
"As I have promised all of you, under current circumstances where we can't protect your lives and your way of life, I declare clearly that I can't approve a restart," Yoneyama told supporters at his campaign headquarters.
Tepco shares were down by 7.4 percent at 385 yen at 0100 GMT (09:00 p.m. EDT) after falling further earlier. The Nikkei 225 was up by 0.5 percent and other utilities were mixed.
Yoneyama had more than 500,000 votes to about 430,000 for Mori with 93 percent of the vote counted in the region on the Japan Sea coast, public broadcaster NHK said.
Mori, a former construction ministry bureaucrat, apologized to his supporters for failing to win the election.
Yoneyama, who had run unsuccessfully for office four times, promised to continue the policy of the outgoing governor who had long thwarted the ambitions of Tepco, as the company supplying about a third of Japan's electricity is known, to restart the plant.
As the race tightened, the election became a litmus test for nuclear safety and put Abe's energy policy and Tepco's handling of Fukushima back under the spotlight.
"The talk was of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, but I think the result will affect nuclear restarts across the country," said Shigeaki Koga, a former trade and industry ministry official turned critic of nuclear restarts and the Abe administration.
Koga told Reuters it was important that Yoneyama join forces with another newly elected governor skeptical of nuclear restarts, Satoshi Mitazono of Kagoshima Prefecture in southern Japan. "Without strong support from others, it won't be easy to take on Tepco," he said.

TROUBLES
Tepco spokesman Tatsuhiro Yamagishi said the company couldn't comment on the choice of Niigata governor but respected the vote and would strive to apply the lessons of the Fukushima disaster to its management of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa.
The government wants to restart units that pass safety checks, also promoting renewables and burning more coal and natural gas.
Only two of Japan's 42 reactors are running more than five years after Fukushima, but the Niigata plant's troubles go back further.
Several reactors at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa have been out of action since an earthquake in 2007 caused radiation leaks and fires in a disaster that prefigured the Fukushima calamity and Tepco's bungled response.
Niigata voters opposed restarting the plant by 73 percent to 27 percent, according to an NHK exit poll.
Yoneyama, who has worked as a radiological researcher, said on the campaign trail that Tepco didn't have the means to prevent Niigata children from getting thyroid cancer in a nuclear accident, as he said had happened in Fukushima. He said the company didn't have a solid evacuation plan.
The LDP's Mori, meanwhile, was forced to tone down his support for restarting the plant as the race tightened, media said, insisting safety was the top priority for Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, while promoting the use of natural gas and solar power in Niigata.

SEOUL (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Park Won-soon, the award-winning mayor of Seoul, has made citizens' participation a cornerstone of running the South Korean capital, a model he says cities around the world should adopt to tackle urban challenges.
Park, tipped as a candidate in South Korea's presidential elections next year, said sustainability was a pre-condition for survival but had been treated as an abstract notion that needed to be translated into everyday lives to affect change.
"There are many challenges ahead, and one of the most important ones I face is ensuring the future sustainability of our city," Park said in an interview with the Thomson Reuters Foundation in his office at Seoul City Hall.
The management of cities has become crucial in achieving new global sustainable development goals as more than half the world's people live in urban settlements, a number forecast to rise to nearly 70 percent by 2050, according to the U.N.
Park said cities have to be leaders in innovation because they have become focal points for addressing challenges, such as population growth, inequality, disease and aging populations.
Cities are also responsible for some 70 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and two thirds of the world's energy consumption, making them big contributors to climate change.
Park said he hoped a U.N. conference in Quito this week aimed at thrashing out a new 20-year plan for cities would help mayors to adopt a holistic view of tackling these challenges.
"I believe guidelines can be set by the national governments but the real implementation is made by the city governments because they empower citizens to bring about actual change," the 60-year old former human rights activist and lawyer said.

FACING SEOUL'S CHALLENGES
Ravaged by war in the 1950s, Seoul has rebuilt itself as a modern metropolis of 10 million people and has become renowned as a global leader in sustainable city development.
The city has deployed policies to fight climate change, achieve energy self-reliance, and allow people and nature to coexist since Park became mayor in 2011.
However, an aging infrastructure, traffic congestion, pollution and housing shortages are magnified by a population density almost five times that of New York City.
As part of its drive to meet new global development goals, the city launched its 2030 Seoul Plan last year with the aim of creating a community-orientated, safe city, with a strong jobs market, stable housing and easy transportation.
Seoul's model of sustainable development is based on integrating citizens' views into planning, said Park.
"One of my philosophies is that citizens are the mayor...so we have citizens play an integral role in making policies and implementing them," said Park, winner of the prestigious Gothenburg Award for Sustainable Development in 2016.

SHARING CITY
The mayor spearheaded "Sharing City Seoul", with initiatives including sharing unused parking spaces, books and meals, leasing empty rooms, exchanging children's clothes and letting citizens use unused spaces in public buildings.
As a result, the city has fared well on quality of life measures in several studies.
It came seventh in the 2016 Arcadis Sustainable Cities Index, one of only two Asian cities to be in the top 10, propelled by high rankings in health and education indicators.
Another flagship policy, launched in 2012, was aimed a cutting the city's energy consumption by the equivalent of one nuclear power plant's capacity, mainly by engaging citizens in energy-saving and renewable energy generation.
Seoul exceeded the target of the "One Less Nuclear Power Plant" initiative six months ahead of schedule in 2014.
It is now in the second phase of its sustainable energy action plan, aiming to boost electricity generation from renewables and generate 20 percent of electricity within the city's boundaries by 2020, up from around 4 percent in 2013.
Seoul's expertise in building a sustainable city has already been exported to 31 cities in 23 countries, including Vietnam, India, Ethiopia and Iraq by sending experts to consult on water supply, transportation and the use of information technologies in the public sector.
Park said he would like to make sustainable development the norm across the world's cities.
"In the past we had meetings, we had agreements and we had promises but now we're seeing the movement being formed by the grassroots level, the local level, the city government," he said.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - At least half of the world's 65 million school-age children with disabilities are kept out of the classroom because little to no money is budgeted for their needs, disability rights groups said in a report on Monday.
Light for the World, a charity which supported the research, said stigma and misinformation surrounding disability as well as a lack of data on the numbers of disabled children contributed to the problem.
"People don't see them (children with disabilities) as a worthy investment," Nafisa Baboo, adviser for inclusive education at Light for the World, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Many think for example that there's no point investing in their education as people with disabilities can't work."
The rights groups said billions of dollars of potential income from the world's poorest countries are being lost through lack of schooling and employment for people who have disabilities.
"Children with disabilities are constantly left at the very back of the queue, and the impact on both individuals and economies can be disastrous," Julia McGeown of Handicap International said in a statement.
The report by the International Disability and Development Consortium said the exclusion of children with disabilities was a major obstacle to meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education for all by 2030.
In September, a report by the U.N. education and cultural agency UNESCO found that the education sector globally has been substantially underfunded, and international aid to education is declining.
"The SDGs give governments an opportunity to up their game," said Baboo, adding that donors should prioritize efforts to reverse the decline in aid for education.
The new report urges governments to provide facilities for the education of disabled children within a mainstream system.
"Inclusive education can drastically reduce out-of-school populations, it can tackle discrimination in society, and it is considerably cheaper than segregated education," said Baboo.
"It's not just morally right, it's also a smart investment."

ABUJA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The Islamic State-allied faction of Boko Haram which last week freed 21 of more than 200 Chibok girls kidnapped in April 2014 in northeast Nigeria is willing to negotiate the release of 83 more of the girls, the president's spokesman said on Sunday.
Around 220 girls were taken from their school in 2014 in Chibok in northeastern Borno state, where Boko Haram has waged a seven-year insurgency aimed at creating an Islamic state, killing thousands and displacing more than 2 million people.
A faction of the militant group released 21 of the girls on Thursday after the Red Cross and the Swiss government brokered a deal. They were brought from the northeastern city of Maiduguri to the capital Abuja to meet state officials.
"These 21 released girls are supposed to be tale bearers to tell the Nigerian government that this faction of Boko Haram has 83 more Chibok girls," Garba Shehu, spokesman for President Muhammadu Buhari, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone.
"The faction said it is ready to negotiate if the government is willing to sit down with them," said Shehu, adding that the state is prepared to negotiate with the branch of Boko Haram.
The Islamic State-allied splinter group said the rest of the kidnapped Chibok girls were with the part of Boko Haram under the control of figurehead Abubakar Shekau, according to Shehu.
Boko Haram has apparently split with a big group moving away from Shekau over his failure to adhere to guidance from the Iraq- and Syria-based Islamic State, which in August named Musab al-Barnawi as its new leader for West Africa.
But that appointment was later dismissed in a 10-minute audio clip on social media by a man purporting to be Shekau, exposing divisions within the jihadist group that has plagued Nigeria and neighbors Chad, Niger and Cameroon.
Information Minister Lai Mohammed on Thursday denied reports that the state had swapped captured Boko Haram fighters for their release and said he was not aware if any ransom had been paid. He said a Nigerian army operation against Boko Haram would continue.
In recent days, the Nigerian army has been carrying out an offensive in the Sambisa forest, a stronghold of Boko Haram.
The militants controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium at the start of 2015, but Nigeria's army has recaptured most of the territory. The group still stages suicide bombings in the northeast, as well as in neighboring Niger and Cameroon.

LONDON The widow of a Nigerian activist is planning to sue Royal Dutch Shell in the Dutch courts alleging the oil company was complicit in the execution of her husband by the Nigerian  military in 1995, court documents filed in the United States last week show.
Esther Kiobel has filed an application in New York to secure documents from Shell’s U.S. lawyers, which she could use in the Dutch action.
The filings with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District Court of New York said she planned to begin that action before the end of the year.
“Ms. Kiobel will demonstrate that Shell encouraged, facilitated, and conspired with the Nigerian government to commit human rights violations against the Ogoni people,” a memorandum in the application filed last week said.
A Shell spokesman said on Sunday: “Shell remains firmly committed to supporting fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business. We have always denied, in the strongest possible terms, the allegations made by the plaintiffs in this tragic case."
Kiobel previously took her lawsuit to the United States but the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2013 that the case could not be heard because the alleged activities took place outside the country.
In 2009 prior to that ruling Shell had agreed in the United States to pay $15.5 million to settle lawsuits related to other activists executed at the same time as Barinem Kiobel, including author and environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa.
Kiobel’s lawyer did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday.
John Donovan, who runs the royaldutchshellplc.com protest website, and who has advised Kiobel on the case said: “She’s going after Shell in their home country, the Netherlands”.
The Nigerian military cracked down heavily on local opposition to oil production by a Shell joint venture in the Niger Delta in the early 1990s. Kiobel alleges that Shell provided support to the military in its crackdown.
A Dutch court ruled in December that Shell may be sued in the Netherlands for oil spills at its subsidiary in Nigeria, although it did not say Shell was responsible.

LONDON Britain and the United States said on Sunday they were considering imposing additional sanctions on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his supporters for their actions in Syria's war.
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, speaking after briefing allies in London on a new diplomatic initiative on Syria, also called on Russia and Iran to agree to a new ceasefire.
The threat of more sanctions on Syria came before a European Union summit on Thursday and Friday to discuss sanctions against Russia.
"There's a lot of measures we're proposing to do with extra sanctions on the Syrian regime and their supporters, measures to bring those responsible for war crimes to the International Criminal Court," Johnson told reporters after talks he convened with his U.S counterpart and allies on Syria.
"These things will eventually come to bite the perpetrators of these crimes and they should think about it now," said Johnson, adding there was no appetite in Europe for going to war in Syria.
He said it was "highly dubious" that Syrian government forces backed by Russia were capable of retaking the city of Aleppo or winning the war, and called on Russia and Iran to show leadership by agreeing to a ceasefire.
"It is up to them to show mercy, show mercy to those people in that city and get the ceasefire going," he added.
He spoke alongside Kerry, who briefed European and other allies on a new diplomatic initiative involving Russia and a group of Middle Eastern nations aimed at ending the fighting in Syria. The first round of talks in the Swiss city of Lausanne failed to agree on a strategy for ending the violence soon.
Kerry confirmed the U.S. was considering additional sanctions over Syria, but did not name Russia as a target.
Western powers have accused Russia and Syria of committing atrocities by bombing hospitals, killing civilians and preventing medical evacuations, as well as targeting an aid convoy with the loss of around 20 lives.
Syria and Russia say they are only targeting militants in Aleppo and accuse the United States of breaking the ceasefire by bombing scores of Syrian troops fighting Islamic State insurgents, over which the United States has expressed regret.
"We are considering additional sanctions and we are also making clear that President (Barack) Obama has not taken any options off the table at this point in time," Kerry said.
Washington suspended bilateral discussions with Moscow over Syria following two attempts at implementing a ceasefire and growing tensions in their relationship.
With the U.S. presidential election less than a month away and Obama unwilling to assume a deeper role in the Syrian war, Kerry is trying to build a broader dialogue involving key regional players in the Syrian conflict.
The U.S. and its allies have urged Moscow to use its influence with the Syrian government to end the bombardment of Aleppo.
"There is some work to be done over the course of the next couple of days which might, or one might hope, open the door of possibility to an actual cessation," Kerry said.
"It's hard, and it's hard because there are still deep beliefs in a lot of people that Russia is simply pursuing a Grozny solution in Aleppo and is not prepared to truly engage in any way."
Moscow all but destroyed Grozny, the capital of Russia's Chechnya region, during its 1999-2000 war against Islamist separatists there.
The United States first imposed sanctions against Syrian government officials in March 2011 shortly after the uprising that led to the civil war.
In 2013, Washington eased some of the restrictions to allow for reconstruction in opposition-held areas.
Both the EU and the United States have already imposed economic and other sanctions on Russia for its seizure of the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, and for its support for pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine.

PODGORICA The pro-Western Democratic Party of Socialists (DPS) of Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic was ahead in Montenegro's parliamentary elections on Sunday, pollster CEMI said on the basis of a forecast based on a partial vote count, pollster CEMI said.
With 20.6 percent of ballots collected from polling stations, CEMI forecast that the DPS would get 42.2 percent, while the opposition Democratic Front alliance of pro-Western and pro-Serb parties would get 22.8 percent. KLJUC ("The Key"), another alliance that opposes Djukanovic, would get 11.6 percent.
Djukanovic, who campaigned on a promise to take the tiny former Yugoslav republic of 620,000 people into the NATO alliance, has ruled the country as President or Prime Minister for almost a quarter of a century.

PARIS Thousands of opponents of gay marriage took to the streets of Paris on Sunday to defend their vision of family values, hoping to revive the issue in political debates ahead of next year's presidential election.
About 24,000 people took part in the demonstration, police said, far fewer than the several hundreds of thousands the group "Demo for All" mobilized in 2012 and 2013 in an unexpectedly strong show of opposition from conservatives, especially Roman Catholics.
The Socialist government legalized same-sex marriage, which it called "Marriage for All", in 2013.
Police said 13 people were arrested after a scuffle at the protest, including six topless women from the activist group Femen. Some of them had words "Hate is not a family value" scrawled on their chests.
Organizers of Sunday's protest aim to pressure politicians on the right, who face a presidential primary next month, to agree to repeal the law if they are elected president.
The protesters marched through prosperous western sections of Paris, waving French flags and the "Demo for All" movement's blue and pink colors. Some held signs declaring "All together for the family" and "In 2017, I'll vote for the family."
Organizers estimated the turnout at 200,000.
"Even if the gay marriage law has been adopted, we will continue the protest to show that it is not good and we want it to be repealed. We want to influence the political debate that will take place in the coming months," said one protester.
Opinion polls show that a majority in France do not want the gay marriage law to be repealed.
Demonstrators also spoke out against surrogate motherhood, which gay couples could use to create a family.
Same-sex marriage proponents pushed for surrogacy to also be allowed in the 2013 law, but the government decided not to revoke the current ban after seeing the unexpected protests that "Demo for All" staged during the heated debate over the reform.
Former President Nicolas Sarkozy, who is trailing rival Alain Juppe in the race to head the conservative Republicans party ticket in 2017 election, said on Sunday he would not repeal same-sex marriage if he were returned to the Elysee Palace.
"I believe France has many other important issues to deal with such as security, terrorism and unemployment, rather than recreate conditions for another hysterical debate," Sarkozy said during a political discussion show.

CAIRO A Cairo court sentenced 18 defendants on Sunday to two years in prison for insulting the judiciary, after the defendants cheered inside the cage when one of them threw his shoe at the judge, security sources and a lawyer said.
Amar El Shahat, a 19-year-old student, turned around and aimed his shoe at the head of the court as he was being sent back to the cage after being questioned before the court for making noise inside the cage, a police official who was in the courtroom said.
El-shahat is being tried along with 22 others on terrorism charges and possessing weapons, with five being tried in absentia. The trial that began in 2015 was taking place in the police academy.
Sunday's sentence was for a separate charge of insulting the judiciary during a court hearing.
A policeman who was standing behind the Mohammed Shereen Fahmy, the judge, caught the shoe just before it could hit Fahmy's head, said Khaled el Masry, a lawyer representing three of the defendants, who was in the courtroom.
The rest of the defendants supported their colleague, which is what led the court to move a criminal case against them, and accuse them of insulting the judiciary, the police official said. They were all sentenced to two years in prison after a representative of the general prosecution in court called for them to be handed the maximum sentence, the police official added.
The defendants have the right to appeal against the decision, but El Masry said they had been handed two years in prison in a previous court session but didn't appeal.  "They do not recognize the court as a valid judicial body that could try them," el Masry said.
The army forced Mursi, the country's first freely-elected president from power in 2013 following mass protests against his rule. It then launched a crackdown against his organization, arresting thousands on accusations of violence and terrorism.
The Muslim Brotherhood was labeled a terrorist organization last year and most of its senior leaders are in prison awaiting trial on charges relating to violence and terrorism.

PARIS French President Francois Hollande has said he does not plan to ease the pressure on Russia over its support for the Syrian government in its fight against rebels, but that he remains ready to meet President Vladimir Putin to discuss the war, a regional French newspaper reported on Sunday.
Putin canceled an Oct. 19 visit to Paris after Hollande said he would see him only to talk about Syria.
"Vladimir Putin does not want to seriously discuss Syria. I am ready at any time, but I will not ease the pressure," Hollande said in the interview, published on Sunday evening.
He added that the absolute priorities were a cessation of bombing, a ceasefire, humanitarian aid and the opening of negotiations.

ANKARA The liberation of the Syrian village of Dabiq is a "strategic and symbolic victory" against Islamic State and Turkish-backed operations will continue until the border area is fully secure, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's spokesman said on Sunday.
Syrian rebels, backed by Turkish tanks and warplanes, said they had taken Dabiq after clashes on Sunday morning, forcing Islamic State from a stronghold where it had promised to fight a final, apocalyptic battle with the West. Turkey has named the offensive "Operation Euphrates Shield".
"Strategically, it is important that the Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army forces will continue their advance toward al-Bab, a key terrorist stronghold," Erdogan's spokesman, Ibrahim Kalin, told Reuters, adding the area around Dabiq was now being cleared to facilitate the return of civilians.
"Operation Euphrates Shield will continue until we are convinced that the border is completely secure, terrorist attacks against Turkish citizens out of the question and the people of Syria feel safe," he said.

GAZIANTEP, Turkey A suicide bomber killed three police officers and wounded at least nine people in the southern Turkish city of Gaziantep on Sunday during a police raid on a suspected Islamic State safehouse, a local official and security sources said.
The bomber detonated explosives as police raided the house in the Besyuzevler neighborhood of the city, some 40 km (25 miles) from the Syrian border, Abdullah Nejat Kocer, a local member of parliament from the ruling AK Party, told reporters.
A second suicide bomber detonated explosives during another police raid related to the same investigation at an apartment in the city's Gazikent suburb, but no other people were killed, a police official at the scene said. That blast blew the front wall out of the building, according to a Reuters witness.
Kocer said three police officers were killed in the Besyuzevler blast. Six of the wounded were also police, two of them left in a critical condition in hospital. The three other people wounded were Syrian nationals, Kocer told reporters.
Security sources said police had pursued a vehicle believed to be carrying explosives to the house, where a group of Syrian nationals were thought to be sheltering, before raiding it.
Turkey has seen a spate of suicide bombings by militants suspected of links to Islamic State. A suicide bomb killed more than 50 people, many of them children, at a Kurdish wedding in Gaziantep in August.
Turkey launched an incursion into Syria in August in support of Syrian rebels to try to push Islamic State from its border. The rebels said on Sunday they had captured the village of Dabiq from the jihadist group, a stronghold where it had promised to fight a final, apocalyptic battle with the West.
Turkish security forces have repeatedly raided houses in Istanbul, Gaziantep and other cities in a crackdown on suspected jihadists linked to Islamic State.

LONDON The United States and Britain called on Sunday for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Yemen to end violence between Iran-backed Houthis and the government, which is supported by Gulf states.
A Saudi-led campaign in Yemen has come under heavy criticism since an air strike on a funeral gathering in the Yemeni capital Sanaa that killed 140 people according to a United Nations' estimate and 82 according to the Houthis.
On Saturday, a U.S. admiral said a destroyer had again been targeted in the Red Sea in an apparent failed missile attack launched from the coast of Yemen.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said if Yemen's opposing sides accepted the ceasefire then the special envoy to the U.N., Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed, would work through the details and announce when and how it would take effect. 
"This is the time to implement a ceasefire unconditionally and then move to the negotiating table," Kerry told reporters.
"We cannot emphasize enough today the urgency of ending the violence in Yemen," he said after meeting British foreign minister, Boris Johnson, and other officials in London.
Kerry said they were calling for the implementation of the ceasefire "as rapidly as possible, meaning Monday, Tuesday".
The UN's special envoy said he had been in contact with the Houthi's lead negotiator and the government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi. He also said he hoped for "clearer plans" for a ceasefire in the coming days
Johnson said the conflict in Yemen was "causing increasing international concern; the fatalities that we're seeing there are unacceptable".
"There should be a ceasefire and the U.N. should lead the way in calling for that ceasefire."
Their call came after meetings in London with Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir and senior UAE officials.
Kerry met Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif on Saturday in Switzerland on the sidelines of Syria talks.
"It is a crisis now of enormous proportions with an increasing economic, increasing humanitarian and health crisis, and obviously the military components are troubling to everybody," Kerry said.
He added that the release of two American prisoners by Yemen's Houthi and the evacuation of Yemeni civilians wounded in a Saudi airstrike were "an important humanitarian gesture by the Saudis to address the humanitarian concern".

GOA, India Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi branded Pakistan a "mother-ship of terrorism" at a summit of the BRICS nations on Sunday, testing the cohesion of a group whose heavyweight member China is a close ally of India's arch-rival.
Modi's remarks to a meeting of leaders from the BRICS - which include Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa - escalated his diplomatic drive to isolate Pakistan, which India accuses of sponsoring cross-border terrorism.
Tensions between the nuclear-armed neighbors have been running high since a Sept. 18 attack on an army base in Kashmir, near the disputed frontier with Pakistan, killed 19 Indian soldiers in the worst such assault in 14 years.
India later said it had carried out retaliatory "surgical strikes" across the de facto border that inflicted significant casualties. Pakistan denied any role in the attack on the Uri army base, and said the Indian operation had not even happened, dismissing it as typical cross-border firing.
"In our own region, terrorism poses a grave threat to peace, security and development," Modi said in remarks to BRICS leaders who met at a resort hotel in the western state of Goa.
"Tragically, the mother-ship of terrorism is a country in India's neighborhood," the 66-year-old prime minister said, without directly naming Pakistan, in a series of tweets of his remarks issued by the foreign ministry.
Pakistan accused Modi of misleading his summit partners and of seeking to conceal what it alleged was India's own brutality in the part of Kashmir that it rules, where dozens have died since separatist protests broke out in July.
"The people of Indian Occupied Kashmir are being subjected to genocide by India for demanding their fundamental right to self determination," said Sartaj Aziz, foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
Modi's hostile comments were not reflected in the closing summit statement he made to reporters, but still made it possible for him to present himself at home as being tough on national security.
"Modi is aware that such language wouldn't get the consensus necessary to make it into the final communique. Including it in his speech ensures it gets wide circulation anyway," said South Asia expert Shashank Joshi.
The summit achievements were incremental, and included establishing an agricultural research institute and speeding up work on creating a joint credit ratings agency.
Also on Sunday's program was an outreach session with leaders from a little-known group of countries from the Bay of Bengal region whose key attribute, from India's point of view, is that Pakistan is not a member.

LACK OF STRATEGIC RESTRAINT
Modi's hard line on Pakistan marks a departure from India's tradition of strategic restraint, and New Delhi has won expressions of support from both the West and Russia over the army base attack.
Yet China, a longstanding ally of Pakistan that plans to build a $46 billion export corridor to the Arabian Sea coast, has been cautious in its comments.
Modi and President Xi Jinping held a bilateral meeting on Saturday evening and accounts of their conversation emerging from both sides pointed to clear differences of opinion.
In one remark reported by the state Xinhua news agency, Xi said that China and India should "support each other in participating in regional affairs and enhance cooperation within multilateral frameworks".
The dispatch went on to refer to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). This grouping includes Pakistan, which was to have hosted a summit in November that collapsed after India and other members pulled out.
The final summit declaration repeated earlier condemnations of "terrorism in all its forms" and devoted several paragraphs to joint effort to fight terrorism. It did not, however, level any blame over the tensions between India and Pakistan.
"So far, we haven't seen any indication at all that China is softening its public support for Pakistan. India did not expect differently," said Joshi, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute in London.

MOSCOW Russia said all participants in talks in Lausanne had agreed Syrians should decide their own future through inclusive dialogue and that the country should remain whole and secular, after the meeting ended without a breakthrough.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said on Sunday that in order for a U.S.-Russian ceasefire agreement to succeed and to facilitate humanitarian aid deliveries, Syria's moderate opposition must separate from Jabhat Fatah al Sham, previously known as the Nusra Front, and other "terrorist groups" affiliated with it.
"At the same time, it should be understood that operations against terrorists of Islamic State and the Nusra Front will be continued," the ministry said.
Saturday's talks, convened by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in the Swiss city, failed to agree on a common strategy with Russia to end the conflict in Syria, now in its sixth year.
Kerry hosted Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and seven foreign ministers from the region - from Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Qatar, Jordan and Egypt - weeks after the collapse of a painstakingly crafted U.S.-Russian ceasefire plan that many saw as the last hope for peace this year.
Western powers have accused Russia and Syria of committing atrocities by bombing hospitals, killing civilians and preventing medical evacuations in Syria's largest city Aleppo, as well as targeting an aid convoy with the loss of around 20 lives. Syria and Russia say they are only targeting militants.
Europe was not represented at the Lausanne meeting. But France's Foreign Ministry confirmed that Kerry and foreign ministers of like-minded nations planned to meet in London on Sunday to discuss Syria.
A source in the German Foreign Ministry said German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier spoke to Kerry on Sunday about the results of talks in Lausanne as well as the next steps that need to be taken.
The source said both ministers agreed that despite the tough initial situation, every effort must continue to be made to bring about a new humanitarian ceasefire, to get aid supplies safely to eastern Aleppo and to create the conditions for a new ceasefire.

GOA, India Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday he hoped the United States and its allies would do their best to avoid civilian casualties in an attack on Mosul, the stronghold of the Islamic State militant group in Iraq.

GOA, India A planned round of talks between Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany in Berlin on the Ukrainian peace process will be possible only if experts make progress in dialogue, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday.

JOHANNESBURG South Africa's Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa came out in support of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Sunday and said fraud charges brought against him should not be allowed to undermine his efforts to revitalize the economy.
Prosecutors have ordered Gordhan to appear in court next month, in what his supporters and analysts say looks like a plot to discredit and oust a man who has defied close allies of President Jacob Zuma.
"Events of the past few days regarding summonses served on Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan have been of concern to many South Africans across all sectors of society," said Ramaphosa, who is seen as a strong contender to replace Zuma when his term ends in 2019.
"I lend my support to Minister Gordhan as he faces charges brought against him by the National Prosecuting Authority," Ramaphosa added.
Ramaphosa said the charges had been announced as Gordhan prepared to deliver his Medium Term Budget Statement on Oct. 26. The legal action, which shook markets and hit the rand, also comes as the country is bracing for possible credit ratings downgrades.
"Whatever the legal challenges that Minister Gordhan may face, we must not undermine the work that the government jointly with leaders of business and labor have been doing to stimulate domestic and international investment in our economy," Ramaphosa said.
Despite the charges, Zuma has also continued to express his support for Gordhan and denied talk of a rift.

POLITICAL DIVISIONS
The ruling African National Congress (ANC) suffered its worst-ever local election results in August, widening divisions in the ruling party.
Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi was quoted as saying in the Sunday Times newspaper that the decision to prosecute Gordhan was "a declaration of war."
"We want law and order, not institutions used to fight nefarious political battles," he was quoted as telling the newspaper.
Mmusi Maimane, leader of the opposition Democratic Alliance, renewed his party's call for Zuma to resign and called on South Africans to join in a solidarity march in Pretoria on Nov. 2 when Gordhan is scheduled to appear in court.
Addressing a televised news conference, Maimane said it was critical to defend the integrity of the Treasury.
"Our view is that all of the machinations that are taking place are Jacob Zuma's action in trying to gain access to Treasury ... We can't sit back and allow that to happen," he said.
Legal experts have said the charges against Gordhan would be extremely hard to prove in court as they would have to show he intentionally flouted the law when he granted early retirement to a deputy commissioner at the revenue service and then re-hired him as a consultant.
The drama is unfolding as Zuma battles in court to prevent the reinstatement of hundreds of corruption charges against him which were dropped in 2009, allowing him to run for president.

LONDON British lawmakers from across the political spectrum will press their bid to force Prime Minister Theresa May to give parliament a vote on her negotiating strategy for leaving the European Union, saying she had no mandate for a "hard Brexit".
As Britain embarks on some of its most complex diplomatic negotiations since World War Two, Nick Clegg, former deputy prime minister, said May's plan to invoke Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty by the end of March - triggering the formal Brexit procedure - would hand power to the other 27 EU members.
"Whilst the government has a mandate to pull us out of the European Union they don't have a mandate how to do that," Clegg told the BBC's Andrew Marr program on Sunday.
"That is why it is important that the government strengthens its own hand and also just subjects its own ideas to the sort of scrutiny of the parliament before they go to the negotiations elsewhere in Europe."
Lawmakers from the ruling Conservative Party, opposition Labour Party and Clegg's Liberal Democrats said they accepted Britain had voted to leave, but have called for a debate and vote in parliament to try to influence the terms of the divorce.
May, who was appointed prime minister shortly after the June referendum, last week said parliament would have every opportunity to debate plans to leave the European Union, but ruled out letting it vote on triggering Article 50.
Clegg said he backed a "soft Brexit" in which Britain stays in or close to the EU's lucrative single market, and urged May to try to "square the circle" over whether Britain will have to sacrifice full participation in the single market to restore control over immigration.
May has said she will deliver Britain's vote in the referendum to reduce the numbers of EU migrants arriving in the country and restore British sovereignty, but she has also been careful to say she wants the "best deal" for business.
Uncertainty over what kind of deal Britain will pursue has unsettled investors and markets.
The British currency is particularly sensitive to any suggestion that the country might be heading towards a "hard Brexit", or a clean break from the EU's single market of 500 million consumers.
Priti Patel, the minister for international development   who campaigned to leave the EU, said parliament already had the opportunity to debate and discuss Britain's divorce from the EU.
"The job of government is to deliver the result of the referendum," she also told the BBC.
"This is not about using parliament as a vehicle to subvert the democratic will of the British public."

GOA, India Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said leaders of BRICS nations meeting at a summit on Sunday had been unanimous in recognizing the threat posed by terrorism to economies globally.
The sponsors of terrorism were "as much a threat to us as the terrorists themselves", Modi said in his closing remarks to reporters after a two-day BRICS summit.
BRICS stands for Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.

MANILA A typhoon that barreled into northern Philippine provinces on Sunday has further weakened as it moved toward the South China Sea, but the local weather bureau said it was closely monitoring another storm that could enter the eastern boundary by Monday.
Typhoon Sarika dumped heavy rains and unleashed strong winds on northern rice-growing regions, but there were no confirmed casualties, disaster officials said.
Weather forecasters said Typhoon Sarika was packing winds of up to 120 kph on Sunday afternoon as it moved out of the country.
As many as 2,552 families, or 12,496 individuals, had been pre-emptively evacuated before Sarika made landfall early on Sunday. Authorities were forced to cancel ferry services and as many as 160 domestic and international flights scheduled for the day.
Damage to farm crops, mostly rice and corn, was estimated at 53.5 million pesos ($1.1 million) initially, disaster officials said.
The weather bureau has lowered storm warning signals but said it was keeping a close watch on the next weather disturbance named Haima.
"It's still far, out of the Philippine Area of Responsibility but it's now in the level of a storm. Over time, while traveling over water, it gains strength so that’s our next concern," said Ricardo Jalad, executive director at the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council.
Jalad said the damage from Typhoon Sarika was "not that serious" as initially expected, but there were reports of landslides and flooding in some areas. The strong winds ripped off the roof of some houses and uprooted trees, he said.
"We were focused in Baler but local officials were able to conduct pre-emptive evacuation so there was no casualty," he said, referring to the town where the typhoon made landfall.
"Hopefully, there is indeed no casualty... Our monitoring is continuous."

LONDON Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said on Sunday it was "highly likely" that Scotland would hold a new independence referendum before 2020 after Britain voted to leave the European Union.
Asked on ITV's Peston on Sunday program whether she would anticipate a second Scottish referendum before 2020, Sturgeon said: "I think it is highly likely given the situation we're in ... If anything what has happened since then has probably made me think that even more so than I did the morning after the referendum."
Scotland voted by a large margin to remain in the European Union, while overall Britain voted to leave in a referendum that has reignited talk of a split between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom. Scots rejected independence two years ago.
Sturgeon told her Scottish National Party's annual conference last week the devolved government was preparing for all possibilities including independence after Britain leaves the EU. [nL8N1CL0CA]

ISTANBUL Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Saturday that Iraq could not deal alone with driving Islamic State from the city of Mosul and that the presence of Turkish forces in a nearby military camp was an insurance against attacks on Turkey.
Turkey has been locked in a row with Iraq's central government about the presence of Turkish troops at the Bashiqa camp in northern Iraq, and over who should take part in the planned U.S.-backed assault on Mosul.
"We won't let Mosul be given to Daesh (Islamic State) or any other terrorist organization. They say Iraq's central government needs to approve this but the Iraqi central government should first deal with their own problems," Erdogan said.
"Why did you let Daesh enter Iraq? Why did you let Daesh enter Mosul? They were almost going to come to Baghdad. Where are you, the central government of Iraq?" he said in a speech at a ceremony in the Black Sea town of Rize, broadcast live on TV.
Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi reiterated on Saturday that the Turkish troops have deployed in Iraq without the authorization of the government.
"I won't allow the Turkish forces to take part in the operations to liberate Mosul in any possible way," he added in comments aired on Iraqi state TV.
Turkey fears that Shi'ite militias, which the Iraqi army has relied on in the past, will be used in the planned Mosul offensive, expected to start this month, stoking sectarian unrest and triggering an exodus of refugees.
Turkish soldiers have been training Sunni Muslim and allied Kurdish peshmerga units at the Bashiqa camp near Mosul, and want them to be involved in the assault.
"Nobody should talk about our Bashiqa base. We will stay there. Bashiqa is our insurance against any kind of terrorist activities in Turkey," Erdogan said.
The United States has said any foreign forces in Iraq should have the approval of Baghdad.

MADRID Spain would finally get a stable government led by the center-right People's Party (PP) if it held its third national election in a year, a poll suggested in Sunday.
Two inconclusive votes have left Spain in political limbo since December - and parties are still trying to cobble together a workable coalition after the last election in June.
But a Metroscopia survey in El Pais newspaper suggested that PP, led by caretaker Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, would get 37.8 percent in a new vote - more than the 33 percent it got last time and potentially enough to let it lead a coalition.
The closely-watched monthly poll did not spell out how many parliamentary seats PP would be able to take with that proportion of votes.
But the rise in its support suggested it would have a better chance of forming a government with liberal newcomer Ciudadanos. The two parties together are currently just seven seats below the 176 mark needed for an absolute majority.
Other alliances are also possible.
The Socialist party, which has until now rejected voting in favor of the PP or even abstaining in a confidence vote to allow a minority administration of the conservative party, is planning a meeting of its senior members to review its position.
The meeting is likely to take place on October 23, before an October 31 deadline to form a government or trigger the new election.
Some Socialist members argue that allowing a PP government would place them in the same situation as Greece's long-established center-left party PASOK which joined a conservative-led government in 2012 only to be wiped out by the rise to power of the far-left Syriza party.
But others say that facing another election could be just as disastrous when the party is in such disarray.
The Metroscopia poll showed 56 percent of Socialist voters would prefer the party to allow a PP government while 37 percent would chose to stick to their opposition to Rajoy.
The poll suggested that the leftist alliance of Unidos Podemos would come in second with 22.1 percent in a new vote, up from 21.1 percent in June.
The Socialists would fall to third place, with 18 percent compared to 22.7 percent the last time.
And Ciudadanos would stay in fourth place with 11.6 percent, down from 13.1 percent.

ATHENS A quake of magnitude 5.2 struck northwestern Greece, close to the country's border with Albania, late on Saturday, Athens' Geodynamic Institute reported, causing damage but no casualties.
The quake's epicenter was 12 km (8 miles) northwest of the city of Ioannina, said an official at the Institute.
There was some damage to the mountainous road network in the area due to falling rocks but no casualties, said a police official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The tremor was also felt on the Corfu island in the Ionian Sea, a popular tourist destination, according to the semi-state Athens News Agency.
Greece and the surrounding region is often rattled by earthquakes, mostly at sea which cause no serious damage.

RIYADH The Saudi-led coalition fighting the Iran-backed Houthi movement in Yemen attacked a funeral there after receiving incorrect information from Yemeni military figures that armed Houthi leaders were in the area, an investigative body set up by the coalition said on Saturday.
The Saudi-led campaign in Yemen has come under severe criticism since last Saturday's air strike on the funeral gathering in the Yemeni capital Sanaa, killing 140 people according to one U.N. estimate, and 82 according to the Houthis.
Mourners who died in the attack included some of Yemen's top political and security officials, potentially galvanizing powerful tribes to join the Houthis in opposing a Saudi-backed exiled government.
"A party affiliated to the Yemeni Presidency of the General Chief of Staff wrongly passed information that there was a gathering of armed Houthi leaders in a known location in Sanaa, and insisted that the location be targeted immediately," the investigators concluded, according to a statement.
The Joint Incidents Assessment Team (JIAT) said in the statement that the coalition's Air Operations Centre in Yemen also failed to obtain approval for the strike from commanders, a violation of protocol.
The JIAT called for a review of the rules of engagement and for compensation for the families of the victims. It also said "appropriate action" should be taken against those who caused the incident, without elaborating.
A spokesman for the JIAT said the actions could include judicial proceedings.
"Naturally, these people must be confronted about what led to this mistake. They have the right to defend themselves, but if it becomes clear that legal measures should be taken, the coalition forces are concerned with that," said Mansour Ahmed al-Mansour, a legal adviser to the JIAT.
The coalition accepted the findings in a statement released hours later and said it had begun to implement the JIAT's recommendations.
"The coalition command expresses its regret at this unintentional incident and the ensuing pain for victims’ families," it said.
"The incident is not in line with the coalition's objectives, namely protecting civilians and restoring safety and stability to Yemen."
International condemnation of the strike had been swift. The White House announced an immediate review of Washington's support for the 18-month-old military push against the Houthis.
Senior U.S. officials also said the attack had killed senior figures who were important to the reconciliation process.
The strike has threatened to escalate Yemen's civil war and pull the United States further into the conflict.
Houthi-led forces had responded to the attack by launching missiles into Saudi Arabia and possibly at a U.S. warship stationed off the Yemeni coast, prompting U.S. retaliatory strikes against what Washington said were Houthi radar sites.
The Houthis have denied firing missiles at the U.S. Navy destroyer.
The United Nations estimates that 10,000 people have been killed in the war and blames coalition air strikes for 60 percent of some 3,800 civilian deaths since March 2015.
Attacks continued on Saturday, with Houthi media claiming responsibility for firing another missile into Saudi Arabia, at a military camp in Asir province.
An air strike also hit the Houthi-controlled Hodeida port, killing a military commander responsible for operations in three provinces, according to a news agency affiliated with the group's leading ally, former president Ali Abdullah Saleh.
A spokesman for the coalition could not immediately be reached for comment.

GOA, India India and Russia on Saturday announced plans to set up a joint venture to build helicopters in India, which will also buy surface-to-air missile systems from its former Cold War ally, as the two tighten their military relationship.
The pacts were signed after summit talks between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in India's western resort state of Goa, where leaders from the BRICS group of emerging nations are meeting.
Indian military officials have said the plan is for the joint venture to build at least 200 Kamov helicopters required by the country's defence forces, and is part of Modi's drive to build a defence industrial base in the south Asian nation.
The S-400 surface-to-air missiles are meant to strengthen India's defences along its borders with China and Pakistan, Indian military officials have said.

PADERBORN German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Saturday that Europe's largest economy would significantly boost defense spending in the coming years to move towards the NATO target for member states to spend 2 percent of their economic output on defense.
But Merkel, addressing a conference of the youth wing of her conservatives, did not specify by how much defense spending would rise.
Merkel said U.S. President Barack Obama had told her it could no longer be the case that the U.S. spends 3.4 percent of its gross domestic product (GDP) on security while Germany - its close NATO ally - only spends 1.2 percent of GDP on that.
"To get from 1.2 percent to 2 percent, we need to increase it by a huge amount," Merkel said.
In 2016 Germany's budget for defense spending stands at 34.3 billion euros so it would need to be increased by more than 20 billion euros to reach the 2 percent target.

LONDON Britain has sent 40 military personnel to Tunisia to provide training aimed at helping the North African country prevent the spread of Islamic State fighters from neighboring Libya, the British defense minister said on Saturday.
The training will focus on operational planning, intelligence, surveillance and mobile patrolling and is the third mission of its kind by British troops in Tunisia since 30 British holidaymakers were killed in a beach attack there.
The massacre in June last year at a hotel in Sousse on the Mediterranean coast was the biggest loss of British lives in such an incident since the July 2005 bombings in London.
"We are determined to support our Tunisian allies to defend against Daesh (Islamic State) terrorists who slaughtered innocent Britons on a beach there last year," Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said in a statement.
"Our training will help Tunisian forces strengthen their border security and stop the spread of Daesh along the coast."
The training will be delivered to around 200 Tunisian army personnel at various locations. Two previous training missions took place in February and late last year.

LONDON Britons who want the government to prioritize favorable trade deals with the European Union when negotiating Britain's exit from the bloc outnumber those who think it should prioritize reducing immigration, a poll has found.
Britons voted by 52 to 48 percent in a June referendum to quit the 28-member bloc after a campaign in which those advocating a "leave" vote focused heavily on immigration and promised that 'Brexit' would make it easier to reduce it.
The government is expected to formally start two years of negotiations on the terms of Britain's departure by the end of March. Its challenge is to secure as much access as possible to the EU's single market while also restricting the freedom of movement from other EU countries that is one of the market's main pillars.
In a poll of 2,000 people conducted online by ComRes on Oct. 12-13, 49 percent of respondents said the government should prioritize getting favorable trade deals, while 39 percent thought it should prioritize reducing immigration.
There was a stark age divide, with 48 percent of older people wanting immigration controls to be the priority, while only 25 percent of younger people felt that way, according to the poll for the Sunday Mirror and Independent on Sunday newspapers.
That reflects the results of the referendum itself, in which a much higher proportion of older than younger voters opted for Brexit.
Finance minister Philip Hammond, who campaigned for a "Remain" vote before the referendum, said on Friday that controls on immigration after Brexit must not be damaging for the economy.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Saturday that Britain could not get concessions on freedom of movement while retaining full access to the European single market, or other countries would want the same.
Her words were echoed by French President Francois Hollande, who said Britain's decision to leave the EU should not jeopardize the principle of free movement.

LAUSANNE, Switzerland U.S.-led talks on the Syria conflict in Lausanne on Saturday had a good consensus on a number of possibilities that could lead to a ceasefire in Syria, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said.
Kerry added to reporters, however, that there were some difficult, tense moments in the talks and that the next contact between sides at the talks would be on Monday to discuss future steps.
He said the parties "might be able to shape some different approaches" from Saturday's meeting.

BANGKOK The head of Thailand's royal advisory council will stand in as regent while the country grieves over the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej and awaits for his son to formally succeed him, the government said.
Mourners lit candles and recited prayers before dawn on Saturday outside Bangkok's riverside Grand Palace, where the remains of the king will lie for months before a traditional royal cremation, and thousands joined them during the morning.
The world's longest-reigning monarch, King Bhumibol died on Thursday in a Bangkok hospital, at the age of 88.
The government has said Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn wants to grieve with the people and leave the formal succession until later, when parliament will invite him to ascend the throne.
Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam said in an interview broadcast on state television late on Friday that there was no uncertainty about the succession but, in the interim, the head of the powerful Privy Council would have to step in as regent.
"There must be a regent for the time being in order not to create a gap," Wissanu said.
"This situation will not be used for long," he added, without mentioning by name Privy Council head 96-year-old Prem Tinsulanonda, a former army chief and prime minister.

CANDLES LIT AT DAWN
Prince Vajiralongkorn does not enjoy the same adoration his father earned over a lifetime on the throne. He has married and divorced three times, and has spent much of his life outside Thailand, often in Germany.
The king's remains were taken in a convoy on Friday through Bangkok's ancient quarter to the Grand Palace, winding past thousands of Thais dressed in black, many of them holding aloft portraits of a monarch who was revered as a father figure.
Buddhist monks chanted prayers beside his coffin on Saturday as Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn came to pay her respects.
"I didn't ever want to hear this news although it couldn't be avoided. All we can do now is hope that he will rest in peace," said Sakhon Sondee from the eastern province of Surin, one of thousands who gathered outside the Grand Palace despite the 32 Celsius (90 Fahrenheit) temperature and humidity.
General Sansern Kaewkamnerd, a spokesman for the prime minister's office, said 30 bus routes and some canal boat services would be free to take people to Sanam Luang, an open area near the Grand Palace.
The king had been in poor health the past several years and his death plunged the Southeast Asian nation of 67 million people into grief.
Most Thais have known no other monarch and King Bhumibol's picture is hung in almost every house, school and office.
People in the capital and in towns across the country dressed in black.
Shopping malls were open on Saturday and the government said bars could continue doing business, but it decreed that no entertainment events and festivities should be held outside for 30 days, the first month of one year of official mourning.
A number of domestic sport competitions, including soccer and golf tournaments, have been canceled or postponed, and the Football Association of Thailand said it was seeking to move a home World Cup qualifier against Australia on Nov. 15 out of the country.

'CRITICISM AND ANALYSIS' FORBIDDEN
The Nation newspaper said government guidelines for the media stipulated that TV programs and advertising "must not contain improper scenes such as entertaining, dancing or violent acts", and presenters must dress in white or black.
It said information related to the king's passing must be approved by authorized bodies, while criticism or analysis would not be allowed.
Thailand's strict lese-majeste laws, which have been applied rigorously since a military government took power in a 2014 coup, have left little room for public discussion about the succession.
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) called in a statement on Thailand's military government to lift the censorship order on broadcasters
"While CPJ sympathizes with the Thai people over the passing of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, we lament that the government has resorted to crude censorship at this sensitive time," said Steven Butler, CPJ's Asia program coordinator.
The king stepped in to calm crises on several occasions during his reign and many Thais worry about a future without him. The military has for decades invoked its duty to defend the monarchy to justify its intervention in politics.
Military government leader Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said after the king's death that security was his top priority and he ordered extra troops deployed around the country.
Thailand has endured bomb attacks and economic worries recently while rivalry simmers between the military-led  establishment and populist political forces after a decade of turmoil including two coups and deadly protests.
The junta has promised an election next year and pushed through a constitution to ensure its oversight of civilian governments. It looks firmly in control for a royal transition.


BANGKOK The Football Association of Thailand (FAT) is seeking to move the home World Cup qualifier against Australia on Nov. 15 out of the country amid mourning for the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej.
A number of domestic sport competitions, including soccer and golf tournaments, have been canceled or postponed out of respect for the long-reigning monarch who died on Thursday at the age of 88 in a Bangkok hospital.
The FAT said it had consulted with soccer's world governing body FIFA and written to Australia and the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) to ask if the match could be re-located.
"Changing the time for the match isn't an option, so the match must definitely be on," FAT spokesman Patit Supapong told Reuters on Saturday.
"We have discussed two options with FIFA. First, we're hoping for an agreement with Australia to let us play an away match first. Second, we might have to find a neutral venue to play if the first option fails."
Australia's FA said it was waiting for advice from FIFA and the AFC.
"Football Federation Australia is currently awaiting official notification from FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation on the status of the ... qualifier," an FFA spokesperson said in a statement.
Thailand have lost all four of their qualifiers and are bottom of Asia's Group B, which is led by Saudi Arabia on 10 points.
Australia, held to a 1-1 draw by Japan in Melbourne on Tuesday, are second in the group on eight points.
The top two teams qualify for the 2018 finals in Russia directly, with the third-placed teams going into a playoff.
As Thais begin a year of mourning for their king, parties and celebrations will be toned down, with the government asking for people to "refrain from festivities" for 30 days.
After an executive meeting on Friday, FAT canceled all matches in its competitions for the rest of the year, awarding the titles to the league leaders and relegating teams in the drop zones.
The decision gave Muangthong United its fourth crown in the top-flight Thai League.

BANGKOK Thai authorities have warned traders not to take advantage of shoppers flocking to buy black shirts to mourn King Bhumibol Adulyadej and have sent out teams of inspectors to scour markets for price gougers.
The 88-year-old king died on Thursday after 70 years on the throne, plunging the country into grief.
The government has declared a year of mourning and asked everyone to wear black or white, and to cancel any outdoor festivities, for the first 30 days.
"Regarding black shirts which have become more expensive, the commerce ministry has sent teams to inspect white and black clothing vendors to make sure the shirts are not being sold at prices that are too expensive," Major General Sansern Kaewkamnerd, a spokesman for the prime minister's office, told reporters on Saturday.
Black is the color of mourning in Thailand but white, a color that symbolizes purity, is also sometimes worn. White is also worn by ethnic Chinese people at funerals.
Most people in Bangkok have been wearing black since the king died and shoppers have been flooding to markets to get new clothes.
Traders said business was brisk and they denied pushing up prices.
"Most people are buying black shirts," said Songkhan Tansonan, running a street stall next to a fetid canal outside Bangkok's Bobae Market.
She said she had sold 200 black shirts by midday on Saturday and 400 the previous day.
"I buy them for 90 baht ($2.60) from the wholesaler and sell them for 120 or 130 baht ($3.40 to $3.70)," she said.
Nongrak Bantaotuk, a nurse, said she was buying black shirts for herself and her family. She said prices had risen a bit, but that did not worry her.
"If you compare, the price is higher than before, but this isn't about prices," she said.
"We're going to wear them for a year."

OTTAWA Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday angrily urged the European Union to approve a free trade deal with Canada, saying failure to do so would show the 28-nation bloc was heading down the wrong path.
Canada's Liberal government has watched with increasing dismay as a series of political protests inside European Union member states threaten the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), which took years to negotiate.
A region of Belgium is set to block the deal when EU trade ministers meet next week to vote on CETA. Trudeau is tentatively due to fly to Brussels at the end of October to formally sign the agreement.
"If we find in a week or two that Europe is incapable of signing a progressive trade deal with a country like Canada, then who does Europe think it can do business with in the years to come?" Trudeau said in forceful remarks to reporters after talks with visiting French Prime Minister Manuel Valls.
"If Europe doesn't manage to sign this deal it will be a very clear message - not just to Europeans but to the entire world - that Europe is choosing a path that is perhaps not very productive ... that would be really sad," he added.
Canada and the EU, which say CETA could boost bilateral trade by 20 percent, want the deal to come into force next year.


BERLIN/OTTAWA Germany's Constitutional Court cleared the government on Thursday to approve a free trade accord between the European Union and Canada under defined conditions, boosting the agreement's chances of passing an EU vote next week.
However, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made clear he was losing patience with the EU over the pact, which both sides say could boost bilateral trade by 20 percent.
The court in Karlsruhe rejected emergency appeals by activists to prevent Berlin from endorsing the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) before it has been ratified by national parliaments.
Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel, who has championed the pact as Europe's best chance to shape the changing rules of global trade, said the ruling paved the way towards ratification.
"I am very pleased that we have made a first big step, because if Europe were not able to deal with Canada, this would send a difficult signal in the world," he said.
EU trade ministers are due to vote on the accord next week and Brussels and Ottawa then hope to sign it on Oct. 27.
But its final approval is far from certain, as the ministers have signaled they want unanimous support from the 28 member states to allow it to enter force.
Trudeau, in by far his most outspoken criticism of the EU, said on Thursday CETA was a turning point for the bloc.
"If we find in a week or two that Europe is incapable of signing a progressive trade deal with a country like Canada, then who does Europe think it can do business with in the years to come?" he said in forceful remarks to reporters in Ottawa.
"If Europe doesn't manage to sign this deal it will be a very clear message - not just to Europeans but to the entire world - that Europe is choosing a path that is perhaps not very productive ... That would be really sad," he added.
The parliament of the French-speaking community in Belgium backed a motion on Wednesday to prevent the country signing up to CETA. Belgium's federal government favors the pact, but needs the support of the country's regions and linguistic communities to give its formal approval.
Opponents argue CETA is undemocratic and will undermine workers' rights and worsen standards for consumers.
Slovenia's government, whose position had been uncertain, said on Thursday that it backed CETA, while a final decision would be made by parliament in coming weeks.
Austria's chancellor, who has expressed strong objections, said his decision on whether to back the deal would depend to a large extent on the German court's ruling. Earlier on Thursday he struck a conciliatory tone, saying many of his concerns had been addressed in an additional declaration.
Widely seen as a possible blueprint for the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), a bigger trade deal the EU has been negotiating with the United States, CETA aims to eliminate tariffs on 98 percent of goods immediately.
CETA also encompasses regulatory cooperation, shipping, sustainable development and access to government tenders.
In its ruling, Germany's highest court said Berlin must ensure that only parts of CETA within the competence of the European Union, such as the removal of tariffs, should be allowed to apply provisionally - meaning before it is ratified by EU member states.
This means that a system of investor protection also envisaged in the accord, which opponents say will hand too much power to multinationals, may come into force only after ratification by national parliaments.

STRASBOURG, France Germany would give a "strong" response should a member of NATO be attacked, its foreign minister said on Thursday in response to a question by a British lawmaker at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg.
Frank-Walter Steinmeier was asked by Mark Pritchard, a Conservative member of the British delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, whether Germany would be "weak or strong" if a member of NATO was attacked, and whether under the organization's Article 5 it would consider launching military action against, for example, an aggressive action by Russia:
"I can answer you very briefly and say: strong," Steinmeier said.
Article 5 is the Western military alliance's collective self-defense mechanism under which all NATO countries must help any member which invokes it.

(Corrects title of British official.)

ST PETERSBURG, Russia A Russian firm has caused a stir after putting on sale a children's bed in the shape of a Buk missile launcher of the kind that shot down a Malaysian Airlines passenger jet in eastern Ukraine in 2014.
International prosecutors said last month the airliner had been shot down by a Buk missile fired from a village held by pro-Russian rebels. Moscow denies any involvement and points the finger at the Ukrainian army. All 298 people on board flight MH17, most of them Dutch, were killed.
The children's bed, made by the company in St Petersburg, has angered many Russian consumers who have vented their spleen online complaining that it is in bad taste.
But Anton Koppel, who runs CaroBus, which makes unusual furniture for children, shrugged off any political overtones as he spoke next to a camouflage-colored bed crafted to look like the Buk surface-to-air self-propelled launcher.
Retailing at 11,000 rubles ($176.78) at a shopping center in St Petersburg, Russia's second city, the bed has a red star and Russia's tricolor flag. But instead of "Buk" it bears the name "Defender" - a concession to angry consumers.
"We didn't want to traumatize people, many people wrote about this being related to the situation in the Donbass (separatist region), to the downed plane and other horrific things, but this is not what we think," Koppel told Reuters.
He said the bed's frame was simply a design that had proved popular with customers.
"This is simply a military vehicle which looks really cool. But nevertheless, we understand that people can be different, we appreciate their interest in this. And of course, we didn't mean to traumatize anyone and we simply renamed it Defender."

ROME At least 17 migrants are missing after a night-time rescue of more than 100 others from a partially submerged rubber boat off the coast of Libya, the Migrant Offshore Aid Station (MOAS) said on Thursday.
Italy's coastguard received a distress call from the vessel on Wednesday evening and alerted the privately funded MOAS ship Phoenix, which used remote-controlled drones to locate the boat, a statement said.
The Phoenix crew pulled 113 to safety, but survivors said it had set out from Libya with 130 on board. Among those missing was a Nigerian toddler who was about to turn 3 years old, his mother told rescuers.
"The sea was rough and the boat was taking on water. At one point some people started to panic. The next thing I knew I was pushed into the water and I lost my son in the chaos," the boy's mother told the Phoenix crew, MOAS said.
A young man said five of his friends were missing, and another man said a 16-year-old girl also had disappeared.
Photographs posted on the MOAS web site show that many migrants were in the water and clinging to the boat when rescuers arrived. A search for the bodies had to be abandoned due to rough seas, the statement said.
Many of those rescued suffered burns caused by leaking fuel, and one woman was in shock with first-degree burns on a third of her body, MOAS said. A medical evacuation for her had been blocked by bad weather.
Separately on Wednesday, two rescue vessels operated by MOAS and Save the Children rescued a total of 470 migrants, an Italian coastguard spokesman said.
The central Mediterranean route between North Africa and Italy is the deadliest border in the world for migrants. More than 3,100 have gone missing or died this year while trying to use this route to reach Europe by boat, the International Organization for Migration estimates.

ANKARA A planned U.S.-backed operation to drive Islamic State from the Iraqi city of Mosul could cause "blood and fire" in the region if not carefully handled, Turkey warned on Wednesday, saying it would keep troops nearby despite Baghdad's opposition.
President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey, locked in an escalating row with Iraq over who should take part in the planned Mosul assault, would do all it could to prevent the operation from deepening sectarian conflict on its borders.
Mosul, home to up to 1.5 million people, has been the headquarters of Islamic State's self-declared caliphate in northern Iraq since 2014. The battle for the city, expected later this month, will help shape the future of Iraq and the legacy of U.S. President Barack Obama.
"We will use all our resources to prevent our brothers in Syria and Iraq from being crushed under the wheels of global power games, and to keep us from suffering a similar fate," Erdogan said in a speech in Istanbul.
"We are determined to deflate the balloon of sectarian conflict aimed at drowning the region in blood and fire."
Soldiers from Turkey, a regional power with the second largest armed forces in NATO, have been training Sunni Muslim and Kurdish Peshmerga units at the Bashiqa camp in northern Iraq and want them to take part in the expected battle for Mosul.
But their presence has sparked a row with the Shi'ite-led government in Baghdad, which is keen that its forces be at the forefront of the offensive.
The United States on Tuesday urged the two governments to resolve the spat, which could affect the planned U.S.-backed assault. It said any foreign forces in Iraq should be there with the approval of the Baghdad government and under the umbrella of the U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State.
Turkey is part of the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State and has played a frontline role in Syria. It says its troops are in Iraq as part of an international mission to train and equip Iraqi forces to fight Islamic State.
"Turkey does not move on orders from others ... Turkey’s presence in the Bashiqa camp will remain until Mosul is rid of Daesh," Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus told the state-run Anadolu Agency on Wednesday, using an acronym for Islamic State.
"Whoever the Mosul population is, Arabs or Turkmen, they have lived together for centuries and will continue to do so. If you change the ethnic structure here, the people there will not allow it ... This is our perspective as Turkey. Turkey’s force in the region cannot be questioned," he said.

"RANTING AND RAVING"
Turkey's parliament voted two weeks ago to extend the deployment of an estimated 2,000 troops across northern Iraq by a year to combat "terrorist organizations" - a wording broad enough to refer to Kurdish militants as well as Islamic State.
Iraq condemned the vote, and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi warned Turkey risked triggering a regional war. His government has requested an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting to discuss the issue, and both countries have summoned each other's ambassadors in a mounting diplomatic stand-off.
Erdogan warned Abadi in a speech on Tuesday that he should "know his place", saying: "You are not my interlocutor anyway. You are not on my level, you are not of my quality. You ranting and raving from Iraq is not of any importance to us."
Abadi responded tersely on Twitter.
"Yes, we sure are not your equal, because we liberate our land with men not via Skype," he wrote, in apparent reference to an attempted coup in Turkey in July in which Erdogan addressed the nation via a video chat service on a cellphone.
On Wednesday, Erdogan lashed out at those criticizing Turkey's position on the Mosul operation, saying Ankara was being "indecently attacked" because it was daring to disrupt the regional balance of power.
Turkey shares a 1,200 km (750-mile) border with Syria and Iraq and faces threats from Islamic State militants in both. But it is concerned that international efforts to destroy the radical Islamists will leave new dangers in their wake.
The Turkish army launched an incursion into Syria in August to push back Islamic State and prevent the U.S.-backed Kurdish YPG militia from seizing ground. Ankara is furious at Washington's support for what it sees as a hostile force.
Erdogan slammed comments by U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in a debate on Sunday that she would consider arming Kurdish fighters in Syria, describing her words as "unfortunate and amateurish". He accused Washington of "working with one terrorist organization to destroy another".
The Turkish military, shaken by July's failed coup and already busy with its Syria offensive and a Kurdish militant insurgency at home near the Iraqi border, could be stretched by conflict on a third front.
Security sources said soldiers and military equipment, including armored vehicles, had been deployed near the Iraqi border with Iraq in recent days. The head of the armed forces, General Hulusi Akar, and force commanders visited army units in the border province of Sirnak on Wednesday.
Kurtulmus said Turkey would participate in the Mosul operation if the Kurdish YPG was not also involved. Turkey views the YPG as an extension of the PKK militant group, which has fought a three-decade insurgency in southeastern Turkey and has bases in northern Iraq.

PARIS Plans to dismantle the "Jungle" migrant camp in northern France where thousands of refugees are holed up will go ahead to "take people out of the slums," France's asylum chief pledged after a group of charities asked a court to halt the closure.
Over 6,000 refugees live in the makeshift camp in squalid conditions, dreaming of reaching Britain, barely 21 miles (33 km) away across the English Channel.
The French government has now undertaken to resettle them to small reception centers throughout the country and wants to have the Jungle closed by the end of the month.
"Calais is over, it's finished," said Pascal Brice, the director of Ofpra, the agency in charge of handling asylum requests in France, referring to the makeshift camp.
"What is at stake is for this message to get across and for people to realize there's no point in going there, that it's a dead-end," Brice told Reuters and a small group of European newspapers in a joint interview.
A tightening of security in Calais makes it "near impossible" to slip through toward Britain, Brice said, and refugees are being persuaded to apply for asylum in France instead of attempting the perilous journey to Britain, often in the back of trucks.
"What matters is to get people out of these slums," Brice said. "We need to convince people. We've been doing a lot of groundwork to accompany them in the process of abandoning their project to go to Britain. It's very difficult. It's like a mourning process."
Given that Britain remains a favored destination for many refugees and migrants due to family links, the language they are often more likely to speak than French, and higher prospects of employment, charities say many will still come to Calais even if the Jungle is no more.
Brice said that was the focus of much of ongoing talks now, including with charities.
"We need to take into account the possibility that some still come - albeit in smaller numbers - and make sure we can move them on to (France's) national asylum process," Brice said.
He added that there had been no decision yet but talks were looking into the idea of allowing parts of the Grand-Synthe migrant camp in nearby Dunkirk to remain and not be dismantled.
Brice said he anticipates a maximum of 100,000 asylum requests to be made in France this year, an increase of 20 percent from 2015 but still much smaller than the million expected to arrive in Germany.
France promised last year to take in 30,000 refugees stranded in countries bordering on Syria, as well as in Greece and Italy as part of an EU-wide resettlement plan. Some 4,000 have been taken in so far, Brice said.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The fate of up to 1,000 children living without families in the "Jungle" migrant camp that is set for demolition within days remains uncertain with some seeking smugglers to take them to Britain, according to residents and charity groups.
The filthy, ramshackle camp has become a symbol of Europe's struggle to respond to an influx of migrants fleeing war and poverty and is home to more than 6,000 people dreaming of coming to Britain, just 21 miles (33 km) across the English Channel.
An estimated 1,000 unaccompanied children are currently living in the Jungle of which around 180 have been identified as having family ties to Britain.
Afghan teenager Nasir said many of the unaccompanied children were fearful of what would happen to them when the camp closes which has spurred many to seek out smugglers who are charging up to 3,000 pounds ($3,661) for passage to Britain.
"An agent asked me for 3,000 pounds to put me in a refrigerated lorry and get me to the UK in two days but I don't have money," Nasir, 16, who did not give his last name, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from Calais.
"Not only me, but every one in the camp is really worried ... They say the camp will be shut on Monday."
Britain's anti-slavery commissioner Kevin Hyland has warned that children were turning to smuggling gangs rather than official routes to claim asylum or to join relatives in Britain as he called for ministers to do more to help lone youngsters.
Despite a group of charities asking a court to halt the closure, French asylum chief Pascal Brice said on Thursday plans to dismantle the camp will go ahead to "take people out of the slums".
The French government has undertaken to resettle the migrants from the Jungle to small reception centers throughout the country and wants to close the camp by the end of the month.
"Calais is over, it's finished," said Brice, the director of Ofpra, the agency in charge of handling asylum requests in France, referring to the makeshift camp.
"What is at stake is for this message to get across and for people to realize there's no point in going there."

RISING TENSION
Uncertainty about exactly when the camp might close, fueled by a lack of information from the authorities, has heightened tensions among all the camp's residents.
"No one knows what's going on. There's been no official information. That's the crux of the whole problem," said Kirstin Shirling, working on the Refugee Info Bus, which was set up to dispense information to migrants and refugees in the camp.
The British volunteer is concerned the demolition of the camp, which shelters migrants mainly from Afghanistan, Sudan, Eritrea and Syria, will be quick and volunteers will not be allowed on site once it begins.
Britain had been accused of dragging its heels on helping move unaccompanied children from the Jungle and the United Nations children's agency UNICEF urged the government to speed up the transfer of children as the camp closes.
On Monday, Britain's home secretary (interior minister) Amber Rudd said the UK would honor a commitment to take in migrant children from the camp and urged Paris to help speed up the process.
Under European Union rules, asylum seekers must make a  claim in the first country they reach but unaccompanied children can have their applications examined in another country if, for example, they have relatives there.
But many children, like Nasir, are unaware that they may qualify to have their asylum claim heard in Britain.
The issue came to light last month following reports that a 14-year-old Afghan boy – said to have a legal right to travel to Britain – was killed in a hit-and-run accident as he tried to climb onto the roof of a lorry near Calais.
"I have my uncle in the UK, but I don't know whether they will take me," said Nasir, who has tried unsuccessfully several times to get to Britain. "I will keep trying myself until they force us to leave the camp."
Rudd said more than 80 unaccompanied children have been accepted for transfer this year under this rule and called on France to come up with a list of those who are also eligible.
The Home Office said in an email to the Thomson Reuters Foundation it would send two teams of officials to Calais to work alongside French officials to speed up work on the list and to identify and prioritize children who could come to Britain.

ISLAMABAD The Pakistani government on Thursday defended its decision to place a travel ban on a prominent journalist over an article he wrote about an alleged rift between the country's powerful military and its government.
Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan told reporters that Cyril Almeida would not be allowed to leave the country until the completion of a government committee's inquiry into the story, which authorities have repeatedly denied.
The committee would decide if anyone was to be prosecuted in relation to the story.
Almeida, a leading columnist and assistant editor at one of Pakistan's most respected English-language dailies, filed a story on Oct 6. that gave an account of a tense, high-level security meeting between civilian and government officials.
Quoting anonymous sources, the story said civilian government officials called for the military not to interfere if law enforcement authorities tried to arrest members of anti-India militant groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba.
The government has issued three denials of the story, and on Thursday Khan reiterated them. Almeida's newspaper Dawn stands by the story, saying it was verified with multiple sources.
The government placed a travel ban on Almeida late on Monday under the Exit from Pakistan (Control) Ordinance 1981. Khan said the step was taken to prevent Almeida from leaving the country while the inquiry was ongoing.
Calling the committee "informal", Khan said it was gathering evidence and would complete this task in about four days.
"If this committee feels that there is enough evidence to prosecute, then a formal (law enforcement) committee will be made."
Khan said Almeida's name could be removed from the Exit Control List once the inquiry committee had presented unspecified "evidence" to him to respond to.
"We do not want to pressure him - if he says he does not want to share his source, then should we extract it from him with a stick? No," said Khan.
"But we want to share some evidence with him, whether he owns or disowns it."
Khan said the travel ban was placed on Almeida because he was due to fly to Dubai on Oct. 11, suggesting that he was fleeing the country.
Almeida told Reuters his travel plans to Dubai had been made a month in advance, and were for a family vacation.
Pakistan ranks 147th of 179 countries on Reporters Without Borders' World Press Freedom Index. At least 59 journalists have been killed in targeted attacks since 1992, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.

DAKAR The United Kingdom said on Thursday it backs targeted European Union sanctions against officials in Democratic Republic of Congo to end government repression and encourage a peaceful transition of power.
Dozens of people have died in clashes between security forces and protesters angered by what opposition groups say is President Joseph Kabila's plan to postpone a November vote and stay in office beyond his two-term limit.
Kabila's government has said the election must be postponed because of logistical problems.
The United States has already imposed sanctions on a general as well as former and current senior police officials, but Europe has been divided. France has said it is time to consider imposing EU sanctions.
"The UK believes sanctions would play a useful role in influencing the DRC Government and security forces to desist from human rights abuses and suppression of fundamental freedoms," a spokesperson for the U.K. Foreign and Commonwealth Office said in an email.
"We cannot stand by and watch violence, such as that on 19 September, continue and not take action."
Officials in Congo, a former Belgian colony, are thought to hold most of their assets in Europe. Human Rights Watch on Thursday urged the EU to impose sanctions, saying that it could help prevent a broader crisis.
The vast, mineral-rich central African state has never experienced a peaceful transition of power. The United Nations said this week that the current crisis poses a great risk to the country's stability and is likely to spark large-scale violence.

NICE, France Three months after a man plowed his truck into crowds on France's national day in Nice, the southern coastal city is trying to recover as it prepares to remember the 86 victims in a national ceremony of remembrance.
Tributes line the sea-front promenade along which Tunisian-born Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel drove a 19-ton truck, mowing down people watching fireworks on France's July 14 Bastille Day, before police shot him dead.
Curious visitors and grieving locals stop to look at bouquets of flowers, toys and yellowing notes left in memory of the victims.
"We haven't forgotten it. People are less trusting, more nervous and the atmosphere is heavier," said Stephanie Marton, a mother of five who was on the promenade with her children that night. "(It) is not at all like what it was before July 14."
Marton said the family, who threw themselves onto the ground out of the way of the truck hurtling toward them, still lives in the shadow of the attack.
"Three months later, it's still in their heads and it's still hard for them," she said. "They still have nightmares at night - and I sometimes get them too - and they find it really hard to be near the promenade."
Nice was due to hold a national ceremony of remembrance, led by French President Francois Hollande, on Friday, exactly three months after the attack.
But a statement from his Elysee Palace on Thursday said the event, on a hill overlooking the French Riviera and attended by survivors and victims' families, will now take place on Saturday due to bad weather.

CAPE TOWN The premier of South Africa's most economically important province said on Thursday fraud charges leveled against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan were frivolous and undermined efforts to avoid a ratings downgrade.
Speaking at a Thomson Reuters conference in Cape Town, David Makhura said President Jacob Zuma's administration was guilty of "recklessness".

MADRID The former leader of Catalonia will stand trial for holding an independence referendum, the regional court ruled on Thursday, potentially fuelling tensions with a Spanish government determined to resist separatism.
In November 2014, when Artur Mas was regional governor, campaigners held a non-binding vote on breaking away from Spain, which Mas supported despite Spain's constitutional court ruling he must play no part in it.
More than 80 percent of ballots cast called for Catalonia - which has its own language and culture - to separate from Spain, although less than half of the electorate turned out.
The prosecution has called for Mas to be disqualified from public service for 10 years and his two advisors, Irene Rigau and Joana Ortega, who must also stand trial, to be barred for nine years. They all face accusations of "disobedience and prevarication" against the constitutional court.
Mas was ousted as regional leader last year in a power struggle between rival independence factions, but the 60-year-old remains an important figure as head of Convergencia, the ruling Catalonian pro-independence party.
His successor as governor, Carles Puigdemont, has vowed to press ahead with a "road map" to independence for the northeastern region that is centered around the city of Barcelona, despite the constitutional court ruling it illegal.
The 2014 referendum was run by volunteers to bypass legal restrictions, but the Catalonia court said there was evidence Mas had failed to prevent recruitment of people to help run it and that he had overstepped his authority.
Mas was not immediately available to comment. He has said in the past there was no official backing for the event which was run entirely by volunteers and had no legal weight.
"We said before the vote that it had no legal basis. It wasn't in order to claim independence for Catalonia the next day. It was to know how many people in Catalonia were in favor of or against independence," he told reporters last month.

ISTANBUL Iran sent two warships to the Gulf of Aden on Thursday, the semi-official Tasnim news agency reported, establishing a military presence in waters off Yemen where the U.S. military launched cruise missile strikes on areas controlled by Iran-backed Houthi forces.
"Iran's Alvand and Bushehr warships have been dispatched to the Gulf of Aden to protect trade vessels from piracy," Tasnim reported.
The U.S. military strikes were in response to failed missile attacks this week on a U.S. Navy destroyer, U.S. officials said.
Iran's key regional rival Saudi Arabia accuses Tehran of providing support to the Houthis, a charge the Islamic Republic denies.
Tasnim said the Iranian ships will patrol the Gulf of Aden, south of Yemen, which is one of the world's most important shipping routes.

ANKARA Turkey and Israel will complete the process of exchanging ambassadors within one week to 10 days, Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said on Thursday, a key step in a process of normalizing ties ruptured six years ago.
His comments in a news conference came after the two countries agreed on Thursday to deepen cooperation in the energy sector.

SANTIAGO The United Nations predicted on Wednesday that the economy of Latin America and the Caribbean will contract 0.9 percent in 2016, slightly lower than the 0.8 percent contraction estimated by the agency in July.
Looking ahead, growth in the region in 2017 is expected to be 1.5 percent, according to a statement by the United Nations Latin American arm (ECLAC), as prices for raw materials pick up from current multi-years lows.
"The 2017 projections take note of global surroundings that are more auspicious than those of 2015 and 2016. Prices for raw materials look better in 2017," ECLAC said.
Going country by country, growth this year is expected to contract 1.8 percent in Argentina, shrink 3.4 percent in Brazil and contract 8.0 percent in Venezuela; economies are expected to grow 2.1 percent in Mexico and 3.9 percent in Peru, according to the body.
ECLAC predicted Argentina would grow 2.5 percent in 2017, a significant uptick, though that is less than the 3.5 percent growth President Mauricio Macri predicted in an interview with Reuters in August.
The agency predicted dramatic regional variations in growth in Latin America. Commodities-dependent South America will shrink 2.2 percent in 2016, while Central America will grow 3.7 percent.
In July, ECLAC head Alicia Barcena predicted Argentina would contract 1.5 percent in 2016, Brazil would contract 3.5 percent, and Mexico would grow 2.3 percent.

VIENNA Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern said on Thursday many of his concerns about a free trade deal between the European Union and Canada had been addressed in an additional declaration, toning down his rhetoric days ahead of a vote on the deal in Brussels.
Social Democrat Kern has kept other countries guessing on whether Austria will give its approval for the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) which many see as a blueprint for TTIP, an EU trade deal with the United States.
EU ministers in charge of trade, including Kern's Conservative coalition partner Reinhold Mitterlehner who is a supporter of CETA, are expected to vote on the deal on Oct. 18 before a planned signing at an EU-Canada summit on Oct. 27.
Kern reiterated in an ORF radio interview that his decision on whether to support CETA would depend to a large extent on a ruling by the German constitutional court on the accord expected on Thursday.
When asked whether a positive ruling would automatically remove pressure on an additional declaration which he had pushed for, Kern said:
"The additional text attempts to improve detailed regulation beyond (the ruling), which has been successful to a large degree already."
Kern's concerns include how far-reaching the decisions of investment tribunals created under the pact would be, adding he had asked legal experts to assess to what extent the declaration would be binding, although he seemed to soften his stance.
When asked whether he insisted on having a phrase in the text cementing its legally binding status, Kern said it depended on the experts' opinion and that the exact phrasing "is maybe a question of secondary importance".
In addition to uncertainty about Austria's vote on CETA, Southern Belgium is set to block the deal, while backing from Slovenia remains uncertain.

BERLIN A ruling by Germany's Constitutional Court allowing the government to back an EU-Canada trade deal is pleasing and paves the way for Europe to shape the rules of globalization, Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel said on Wednesday.
"I am very pleased with the outcome of the proceedings," Gabriel said in Berlin, adding he believed that the conditions set out by the court could be resolved easily.
"I am very pleased that we have made a first big step, because if Europe were not able to deal with Canada, this would send a difficult signal in the world," he added.
"For this reason I am pleased that we will make a big step towards finally giving rules to globalization," he said.
Earlier, Germany's Constitutional Court rejected emergency appeals by activists to prevent the government from backing the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) before it has been ratified by national parliaments.




ATHENS A Greek guerrilla group has claimed responsibility for a makeshift bomb blast in central Athens late on Wednesday that it  said targeted a prosecutor and warned its next strike would not be limited to material damage.
The Conspiracy of Fire Cells group said the bombing was a show of support for their jailed members and other "political prisoners behind bars" in Greece and accused the targeted prosecutor of shelving cases to protect business interests.
"We chose a symbolic hit aiming only for material damages but in the future, the Conspiracy of Fire Cells will not be limited to that," the group said in a statement posted on the internet.
Police said they were examining the authenticity of the claim.
The urban guerillas claimed responsibility for a wave of parcel bombs sent to foreign embassies in Athens in 2010. They are on a U.S. blacklist of terror groups.
The late-night blast occurred in the Athens neighborhood of Exarhia, damaging the entrance of a building and shattering nearby shop windows.
The Cells initially specialized in arson attacks but turned to bombings in May 2009. In 2011, six of their members were sent to prison with sentences ranging from 11 to 37 years.

LONDON The European Union will take a hard line during the two-year divorce negotiations with Britain, a Reuters poll of economists found, while a crash in the value of the pound is set to push inflation above the Bank of England's target next year.
Concern about how much inflation might rise has split economists' views on interest rates. Twenty-seven of 53 respondents in the poll predict a cut in Bank rate in the fourth quarter, with 22 of them saying it will be by 15 basis points.
Twenty-six saw no move this year.
A majority of Britons voted on June 23 to leave the economic and political bloc. Prime Minister Theresa May has said she will trigger Article 50, which starts the two-year countdown to divorce from the EU, before the end of March.
Many now suspect May is leaning toward a "hard Brexit" -- meaning giving up trying to remain in the EU's single market in order to impose controls on immigration. Such a move could hinder trade, particularly in services, and hurt foreign investment.
"Under these circumstances, the EU is likely to adopt a hard stance in order to remind the UK, and indeed other EU members,  that it has to sign up to free movement of labor if it wants access to the single market," said Peter Dixon at Commerzbank.
All but one of the 27 economists polled in the past week who answered an additional question said they expected the EU to take a hard or very hard line with Britain.
When asked to recommend what attitude the EU should adopt they were a bit more divided, with two-thirds saying it should be a hard or very hard line in the negotiations.
This same panel of economists covering the UK were nearly unanimous in the run-up to the referendum in warning a vote to leave the EU would damage the economy, and correctly predicted it would trigger a sharp fall in sterling.
While they now say the chances of a technical recession are about one-in-four, that initial call was for a very shallow recession, making it easily revised away. The overall outlook for growth remains significantly weaker than it was before the referendum.

FALLING POUND, RISING INFLATION
Sterling has lost around 18 percent against the dollar since the vote and is trading at a 31-year low, and near a record low in trade-weighted terms.
A "flash crash" in the pound last week took it well below the nadir foreign exchange strategists in a recent Reuters poll had expected it to reach in the run-up to March, when May says she will invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.
That has exacerbated tensions between suppliers and retailers, with both sides battling for profits as margins on imported goods are hit. Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has pulled dozens of Unilever brands from its website in a row over pricing.
As sterling is so weak, inflation is expected to rise sharply from August's 0.6 percent reading. It will average 2.3 percent in the second quarter of next year, exceeding the Bank of England's 2 percent target.
But the highest forecast in the poll has crept up, with HSBC calling for 3.7 percent inflation in 2017.
Ahead of the referendum, inflation wasn't expected near target until toward the end of 2017 at the earliest.
That may not stop the Bank from trimming another 15 basis points from borrowing costs, possibly as soon as next month, sending Bank Rate to a new record low of 0.1 percent, the poll found. It will then stay at that level until the end of 2018 at the earliest.
The pound's fall has given a potential boost to exporters, and recent data have suggested the initial impact of the vote to leave on consumer and business sentiment, as well as the broader economy, has not been as bad as initially thought.
Growth in the third and fourth quarter this year is expected at 0.3 and 0.1 percent whereas in an August poll a 0.1 percent contraction was penciled in for both quarters, a technical recession. Last month, those forecasts were 0.0 and 0.1 percent.
But with the exit negotiations yet to begin there have been few clues as to what path they will take and forecasts have been tempered for 2017 and 2018. The economy is expected to grow 0.8 percent next year and 1.4 percent in 2018.
In a June poll taken before the surprise referendum result the respective forecasts were for 2.1 and 2.3 percent growth.
The highest 2017 growth forecast in the June survey was 2.7 percent but in the latest poll the most optimistic forecaster had 1.5 percent penciled in.

LONDON British foreign minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday it was not "entirely right" to talk about a new Cold War with Russia because Moscow did not pose as much of a threat to global stability as the former Soviet Union had.
"It is doing many, many terrible things ... but I don't think Russia today can be compared with the Soviet Union that I remember as a child. I don't think it is as much of a threat to the stability of the world as the former Soviet Union," he told a parliamentary committee.
"I don't think it's entirely right ... to talk about a new Cold War."

MOSCOW Russia would welcome British military involvement in the Syria conflict if it targets terrorists but not the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday.
British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday the country should consider military involvement in the Syrian conflict, but that any action would need to be part of a coalition led by the United States.

LILLE/PARIS A group of charities has asked a court to block the imminent closure of the "Jungle" migrant camp in northern France where thousands of refugees are living in squalid conditions, many of them desperate to reach Britain.
The legal challenge comes as protests mount in some areas where the government plans to rehouse the migrants, most of whom are from countries such as Afghanistan, Sudan and Eritrea, and increasingly Syria.
Facing public pressure ahead of a presidential election in April, President Francois Hollande has said the camp in Calais will be dismantled by the end of the year.
Thousands have already been rehoused in the last 12 months but a new census this week showed 6,500 migrants residing at the camp, though aid workers said it could be up to 10,000.
Aid workers in the camp spoke this week of a demolition start date as early as Oct. 17.
The Secours Catholique charity, one of those seeking the injunction, said the request was submitted to a court in Lille on Wednesday evening. A judicial source said an emergency ruling should be delivered within 48 hours.
Secours Catholique said it was not opposed to the dismantling of the makeshift camp but that the speed at which the closure was to be completed would have a negative impact on relocations.
"Contrary to what we were told, the plan is to dismantle the Jungle very quickly and do it in a matter of days," it said in a statement. "It will be impossible to ensure serious preparations that cater properly to people's interests."
The rehousing plan has already run into resistance in some towns where the 160 reception centers have been set up.
In the southern town of Beziers, the public prosecutor's office said on Thursday police were investigating complaints over a publicity campaign organized by the mayor, Robert Menard, who was elected with the backing of the far-right National Front party.
Posters on billboards across the town read: "The state has forced them upon us. Now here they come. Migrants in the center of our city."
Last week shots were fired at two planned migrant centers, one in the western seaside resort town of Saint Brevin and the other in Saint-Hilaire-du-Rosier in southeastern France, a conservative stronghold.

PARIS French President Francois Hollande is ready to take part in talks over the Ukraine crisis with the leaders of Russia, Germany and Ukraine in the coming days, his office said on Thursday.
Hollande hopes a roadmap defining steps that would eventually give Ukraine back control over its border with Russia could be outlined soon, his office said in a statement, adding that Hollande had spoken with Ukrainian president Petro Poroschenko earlier in the day.
On Wednesday, Germany had played down the prospects of a summit with France and Russia on Ukraine taking place any time soon, after the three countries' leaders discussed the crisis there.

MOSCOW The Kremlin said on Thursday that it still sees a chance of holding a "Normandy format" summit on the Ukraine conflict in Berlin on Oct. 19.
"Meetings of experts will be held, and a pretty serious discussion will take place. If these expert meetings end with a positive result, there will appear such a chance (for the summit)," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters.
Earlier on Thursday, Germany played down prospects of a summit with France and Russia on Ukraine taking place soon. Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman said further work was needed by advisers before any meeting was possible.

LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan Taliban militants ambushed and killed around 100 Afghan police and soldiers earlier this week as they tried to retreat, the heaviest losses suffered by government forces during months of fierce clashes near the capital of southern Helmand province.
On Tuesday, dozens of Afghan police and soldiers were cut down as they withdrew from their positions in Chah-e-Anjir, about 12 km outside the city of Lashkar Gah, having been surrounded and besieged for days.
"We were one battalion there and, except me and two others, no one came out alive," Faiz Mohammad, an army soldier who survived the ambush, told Reuters in Lashkar Gah, a bloodied bandage wrapped around his head.
Afghan Taliban fighters have pushed into some areas of Lashkar Gah, firing rockets at government buildings and sparking a new wave of residents fleeing the city.
The sustained assault is the most serious threat to security in Afghanistan since the brief capture of the northern city of Kunduz a year ago, and underlines the government's precarious defenses despite support from U.S.-led foreign forces.
One senior security official put the death toll from the Chah-e-Anjir incident at around 90, while other sources said it was likely to be higher.
"As they (government forces) were coming towards Lashkar Gah, they were ambushed in three locations," the official said.
Dozens of other security personnel surrendered during the debacle, while Taliban gunmen seized at least 22 armored Humvees, dozens of trucks, and hundreds of rifles, he said.
Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi said that account was accurate, and that militants killed and captured dozens of troops.
Mohammad Rasool Zazai, spokesman for the army's 215th Corps in Helmand, said reinforcements had been working on a plan to relieve police and soldiers in Chah-e-Anjir, but they left their positions before an operation was launched.
"We were in contact with the troops there and the plan was to bring them back to Lashkar Gah to protect the city, but they decided to move without coordinating with us and they were ambushed by the Taliban."

HEAVY LOSSES, DESERTIONS
Afghan officials say security forces are losing as many as 5,000 people each month through casualties and desertion, while only about 3,000 new soldiers and police are recruited over the same period.
With the Taliban on the offensive in several parts of Afghanistan, many new recruits are deployed to the front lines with only a few weeks of training, putting extra burden on elite special forces to do much of the fighting.
General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai, who took command of the 215th Corps at the beginning of the month, confirmed that his forces had sustained "a lot" of casualties in this week's fighting, but could not provide an exact number.
Army officials said at least 400 new troops have been sent to the Lashkar Gah, including special forces.
The NATO-led military coalition has hundreds of advisers in Helmand province, while U.S. troops and aircraft have been dispatched to help the Afghans.
Ahmadzai made "a deliberate decision to withdraw some of his forces back into Lashkar Gah so that they can have mass and so they can help defend Lashkar Gah, and then be prepared to the offense," U.S. military spokesman Brigadier General Charles Cleveland said at a briefing on Wednesday.
Since the beginning of October, U.S. aircraft have conducted at least 15 airstrikes in Helmand in support of Afghan troops, he said.
"Helmand continues to be the Taliban's main effort," Cleveland said. "So they commit a lot of effort and a lot of capability into Helmand."

HANOI Vietnam said on Thursday it would not allow other countries to set up military bases there, just days after Russia said it was considering reopening Soviet-era bases in Vietnam and Cuba.
Russian news agencies last week quoted a Russian deputy defense minister as saying Russia was considering plans to restore the bases that had served as pivots for Soviet global military power during the Cold War.
"Vietnam's consistent policy is not to engage a military ally or engage with any country to oppose a third country," Foreign Ministry spokesman Le Hai Binh told a news briefing.
"We will also not allow any other countries to set up a military base in Vietnam."
While pursuing a neutral foreign policy to befriend many countries and allowing port calls by foreign warships, Vietnam  still bars any permanent presence by foreign military forces.
Russia, which inherits a long relationship with Vietnam, withdrew from the deepwater Cam Ranh naval base in the early 2000s as part of its drawing down of military presence around the world after the demise of the Soviet Union.
Cam Ranh is the jewel in the crown of Vietnam's military, with an air base once used by the U.S. and Soviet forces and a deep water bay home to its modern, Russian-built submarines.
Visits by foreign ships are rare and usually restricted to maintenance. U.S., Japanese and French warships have recently made port calls at Cam Ranh.

AMSTERDAM Australia and East Timor aim for an agreement over the disputed maritime boundary in resource-rich waters between their countries, a court said on Thursday, signaling a deal could be reached by next September.
Confidential meetings between the two countries have been "very productive" and would continue next year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague said in a statement.
The court ordered compulsory arbitration in the case last month after East Timor requested the process against objections from Australia, which negotiated a revenue sharing agreement that gave it until 2056 to settle the boundary issue.
Australia played a critical role in East Timor's independence from Indonesia in 2002 and shortly after that negotiated the revenue sharing deal for the large Greater Sunrise oil and gas field. East Timor calls the deal unfair.
"All agreed we should aim to reach agreement within the timeframe of the conciliation process," the court said, referring to the compulsory arbitration. That process has a deadline of Sept. 19, 2017.
"I was very pleased to see a sincere willingness on both sides to come together in a spirit of cooperation," said Peter Taksoe-Jensen, who headed the arbitration talks.
"Both sides are to be commended for being willing to move beyond past differences and work hard to create conditions conducive to achieving an agreement."
East Timor appealed to the court for the arbitration that could determine the border through the Greater Sunrise oil and gas field. It has said that Australian espionage on its diplomats rendered recent agreements on it flawed.
East Timor says the boundary should fall halfway between it and Australia, which had argued that defining the border that way could prompt Indonesia to also seek to shift its sea border and gain ownership of disputed oil fields.
Greater Sunrise contains an estimated 5.1 trillion cubic feet of gas and 226 million barrels of condensate, although the border dispute and low gas prices mean its development is on hold.

BERLIN German authorities are still investigating whether the Syrian bomb plot suspect who committed suicide in jail on Wednesday had accomplices, a senior state official said on Thursday.
"We don't know yet if there were people pulling the strings," Klaus Fleischmann, chief public prosecutor in the state of Saxony, told a news conference.
German media had earlier quoted investigation sources as saying that the suspect Jaber Albakr, 22, told investigators shortly before his suicide that three Syrians who handed him over to police were accomplices.


MOSCOW Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov discussed the conflict in Syria in a telephone conversation with his French counterpart Jean-Marc Ayrault on Thursday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
Ayrault said that Paris would continue its cooperation with Moscow on developing bilateral ties as well as on key issues of the international agenda, the ministry said, adding the conversation had been held at the request of the French side.

TOKYO Japan has protested to China over signs it is pressing ahead with maritime gas exploration in the East China Sea despite Tokyo's repeated requests to stop, Japan's top government spokesman said on Wednesday.
The exploration platforms are on the Chinese side of the median line between the two countries, but Japan accuses China of ignoring a 2008 agreement to maintain cooperation on resources development in an area where no official border has been drawn.
China said in July it had every right to drill in the East China Sea close to waters disputed with Japan, adding that it did not recognize the "unilateral" Japanese median line setting a boundary between the two.
Ties between China and Japan, the world's second- and third-largest economies, have already been strained by their conflicting claims over a group of tiny East China Sea islets and the legacy of Japan's wartime aggression.
"Earlier this month, flares were newly witnessed at two of the gas exploration platforms China had installed in the East China Sea," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters.
"It is extremely regrettable that China, despite our multiple representations, is carrying on with unilateral development in an area where no maritime border has been set. We protested to China through diplomatic channels right away."
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Thursday Chinese gas exploration was carried out in waters "indisputably under Chinese jurisdiction".
"It is a matter completely within China's rights and jurisdiction," he told a daily news briefing in Beijing.
Japan is also at odds with China's South China Sea claims.
China claims most of the South China Sea, through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam have rival claims.
Japan has no territorial claims over the waters, but much of the trade is to and from Japanese ports.

TOKYO Japan will lease additional land next year to expand a military base in Djibouti, eastern Africa, as a counterweight to what it sees as growing Chinese influence in the region, three Japanese government sources said.
China is seeking closer ties with African nations that could help it gain access to natural resources and provide new markets. Beijing said late last year it would pump $60 billion into development projects on the continent, cancel some debt and help boost agriculture.
Earlier this year, Japan also pledged to increase its support to infrastructure, education and healthcare projects in Africa, committing an extra $30 billion in public and private support.
"China is putting money into new infrastructure and raising its presence in Djibouti, and it is necessary for Japan gain more influence," said one of the sources, with knowledge of the plan.
China in February began construction in Djibouti of its first overseas military facility, a coastal logistics base that will resupply naval vessels taking part in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions.
Djibouti, which is about the size of Wales, is strategically located at the southern entrance to the Red Sea on the route to the Suez Canal. The tiny, barren nation sandwiched between Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia, also hosts U.S. and French bases.
Since 2011, a Japanese Self Defence Force contingent of 180 troops has occupied a 12 hectare (30 acre) site in Djibouti, next to Camp Lemonnier, the U.S. base at the country's international airport.
From there, the SDF have operated maritime patrol aircraft as part of an international force, including China, that hunts pirates in the seas of the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia.
A Japanese Defence Ministry spokesman confirmed discussions were taking place.
"In addition to the land Japan has borrowed, it is considering leasing the neighboring land to its east," the spokesman said in response to a Reuters query. "Japan is now in negotiations with Djibouti government."
Asked about the plans, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said Japan's military and security policies had garnered attention in Asia for historical reasons.
"We hope Japan can draw lessons from history, conform with the times, and truly follow the path of peaceful development," Geng told a daily news briefing in Beijing.
Japan is considering deploying C-130 transport aircraft, Bushmaster armored vehicles and extra personnel to the base but has not yet decided on how many, the sources said.
The size of the extra leased land would be smaller than the existing base and was expected to cost around $1 million a year, they added.
Tokyo will justify the expansion of personnel and aircraft in the Horn of Africa by pointing to a need to have aircraft there to evacuate Japanese citizens from nearby trouble spots or areas hit by natural disasters, the sources said.
Minister of Defence Tomomi Inada traveled to Djibouti in August, where she said Tokyo was considering expanding the "function" of the Japanese base. She didn't, however, indicate that new land would be added.
A month earlier Japan sent three C-130 aircraft from Japan to stand by in Djibouti for the evacuation of Japanese citizens trapped by fighting in South Sudan's capital, Juba.
The mission, only the second ever undertaken by SDF transport aircraft, showed the increasing ability of Japan's military to conduct operations far from home.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is seeking to give the SDF a greater regional and global role as his nation steps back from seven decades of state pacifism.

BEIRUT At least four children were killed in a government-held area of western Aleppo on Thursday when shells landed near a school, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported.
Syrian state news agency SANA said the school in the al-Suleimaniya area had been targeted in what it described as a terrorist attack. Aleppo has been divided between government and rebel control for years.
(Story corrects to clarify that shells landed near the school, not in it.)

MOSCOW The Russian embassy in Damascus was targeted in a mortar attack on Wednesday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said, condemning what it called "a terrorist attack" in the Syrian capital.
One of the mortar shells, fired from a district controlled by rebels, exploded close to the guard post in front of the embassy, while another detonated near the entrance to the consular office, the ministry said in a statement.
The embassy compound was strewn with shrapnel, but none of embassy staff were hurt, it said. It said material damage was being assessed.
"We confirm that Russia's consistent policy of uncompromising fighting against terrorists in Syria will be continued," the ministry said.

SEOUL The bodies of three South Koreans with gunshot wounds to the head have been found in the Philippines, a South Korean foreign ministry official said on Thursday, the latest in a string of killings of Koreans in the southeast Asian nation.
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has waged a ruthless anti-crime campaign since taking office on June 30 in which more than 3,600 people have died in police operations and alleged vigilante killings.
The bodies of two men and a woman, all older than 40 and all with gunshot wounds to the head, were found on Tuesday in Bacolor outside the capital, Manila, the ministry official said by telephone.
Chief of police at the town of Bacolor, Sonia Alvarez, said the deaths were unlikely to be related to drugs and instead looked like a crime of passion or indebtedness.
A South Korean consular official is working with Philippine authorities on the case, but no motive or suspects have yet been identified, said the official, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak to the media.
The Philippine embassy in Seoul declined to comment.
The legs of one of the male victims were bound while the woman's wrists were tied, the official added.
The case takes to six the tally of South Koreans found dead this year in the Philippines, where more than ten South Korean citizens have been killed each year since 2013, South Korean media said.

BEIJING A court in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou jailed an associate of disgraced former domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang for life on Thursday after finding him guilty of corruption.
Tan Li was a vice governor of the island province of Hainan, which China likes to style as its answer to Hawaii or Bali, until he was put under investigation by the ruling Communist Party in 2014.
Tan's official resume shows he worked as the propaganda chief in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, while Zhou served as the province's party boss from 1999 to 2002.
Zhou, the most senior Chinese official to be ensnared in a graft probe since the ruling Communist Party swept to power in 1949, was jailed for life last year for bribery, leaking state secrets and abuse of power.
The Guangzhou court said in a short statement on its official microblog that Tan was found guilty of taking more than 82 million yuan ($12.30 million) in bribes and ordered all his assets to be seized and handed over to the state.
The court said Tan abused his power to influence unnamed industrial projects and arbitration cases, but that as he had admitted his guilt and cooperated with the investigation he had received a lighter sentence, meaning he avoided the death penalty.
It said Tan's crimes occurred between 2001 and 2014, giving a timeframe including his work with Zhou in Sichuan. The judgment did not name Zhou.
It was not possible to reach any family members or legal representatives of Tan for comment.
Many of Zhou's associates and allies have been jailed, including his wife and son.
President Xi Jinping has mounted a sweeping anti-corruption campaign since coming to power almost four years ago.
Xi has warned that rampant corruption threatens the survival of the Communist Party and has waged a campaign against graft that has swept up scores of senior officials in the party, the government, the military and state-owned companies.


YANGON Myanmar's security forces have now killed at least 26 people in response to attacks on police that have sparked a dramatic escalation in violence in a Muslim-majority region along its border with Bangladesh, according to reports in state media.
Armed men believed to be from the long-oppressed Rohingya Muslim minority launched a coordinated assault on three border police posts in the early hours Sunday, killing nine police, injuring five and making off with dozens of weapons and more than 10,000 rounds of ammunition.
Military personnel and police reinforcements have poured into the Muslim-majority township of Maungdaw, northern Rakhine State, and have clashed with groups of up to 300 men, armed with pistols, swords and knives, according to official reports.
Human rights groups and advocates for the stateless Rohingya have voiced concern that the civilian population may be caught up in the authorities' violent response.
Myanmar's de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi said that her government was "exercising the rule of law" in dealing with the attacks, the state-run Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper said on Thursday.
Authorities had not yet confirmed who was behind the attacks, Suu Kyi said on Wednesday.
The military's official newspaper, Myawady, said that another 10 alleged attackers were killed, and a rifle was seized, in a clash on Tuesday morning at Kyetyoepyin village, Maungdaw Township.
In a separate incident on Wednesday, the military accused armed attackers of setting fire to 25 houses after an aborted attack on border police quarters in Kyikanpyin village, the site of one of Sunday's attacks.
The killings bring the total death toll in northern Rakhine State since Sunday to 39, including 13 security personnel.
The 26 alleged attackers reported killed include several who a local resident told Reuters were shot while unarmed and fleeing soldiers.
Campaign group Fortify Rights said on Wednesday it had received reports of extrajudicial killings in the area and called on Myanmar's government to "protect civilians regardless of religion or ethnicity."
Authorities have also detained four men, identified as local Muslims, who they allege were involved in the attacks.
The Rohingya bore the brunt of intercommunal clashes in Rakhine in 2012, in which more 100 people were killed. They make up most of the 125,000 people still living in displacement camps in Rakhine State and face severe restrictions on their movements.

BEIJING China will keep tackling the difficulties facing demobilized soldiers and pays attention to resolving their problems, the Defence Ministry said on Thursday, after hundreds protested outside a major military building against job losses.
China last year announced it would cut troop levels by 300,000, targeting the bulk of the reductions by the end of 2017, as it seeks to spend more money on high-tech weapons for its navy and air force.
Tens of thousands of protests take place in China every year, triggered by grievances over corruption, pollution, illegal land grabs and other woes, unnerving the stability-obsessed ruling Communist Party.
There are periodic protests by former soldiers, including one on Tuesday in Beijing, when hundreds of people wearing green camouflage uniforms chanted and waved protest banners and national flags.
In recent years some veterans have appealed for help in their personal and employment problems, the Defence Ministry said in a statement sent to Reuters.
The ruling Communist Party, government and Central Military Commission "care about veterans and pay high attention to resolving their problems", it said.
The government has adopted preferential policies to improve the living conditions of veterans, and "the temporary living difficulties of some veterans will be resolved", the ministry added.
The English-language edition of the state-run Global Times said the protests drew more than 1,000 participants, although the ministry did not give a figure in its statement.
China has the world's largest military and the government of President Xi Jinping is pumping billions of dollars into a modernization program, including aircraft carriers, anti-satellite missiles and stealth jets.

SAN SALVADOR El Salvador's ruling leftist party on Tuesday presented a proposal to Congress to allow abortion in cases of rape or risky pregnancy, offering a ray of hope to abortion proponents in the impoverished nation.
The Central American country is famous for its tough anti-abortion rules, with women who have abortions facing up to 30 years in prison. The rules offer no exceptions.
The proposal, presented by the Farabundo Martin National Liberation Front (FMLN), would allow abortion in cases of rape or trafficking, when the woman's life is in danger, or when the fetus is so deformed that it makes life unviable.
The church and conservative groups have not yet made a statement on the bill.
To pass the law, the FMLN, a former Marxist guerrilla group, needs 43 out of 84 votes in Congress, but only has 31 seats.
There are at least 14 women in El Salvador who have been sentenced to prison terms of 12 years or more for abortion and about 130 currently facing legal proceedings, according to the Citizens Association for the Decriminalization of Abortion.

QUITO Ecuador has delayed until Nov. 14 its questioning of Julian Assange in a Swedish rape investigation, at the Wikileaks founder's request, the prosecutor's office of the Andean country said on Wednesday.
The questioning, led by an Ecuadorian prosecutor and originally scheduled for Monday, could help end a four-year-long deadlock since Assange took refuge in Ecuador's London embassy.
"He made the request in a document, via the Ecuadorian ambassador in the United Kingdom, in which he sets out his reasons pertaining to protection guarantees and self-defense," the prosecutor's office said in a statement.
Swedish chief prosecutor Ingrid Isgren and a police investigator will be allowed to be present to ask questions through the Ecuadorian prosecutor, who will later report the findings to Sweden, the European country's prosecutors have previously said.    Swedish authorities want to question Assange, 45, over allegations that he committed rape in 2010. Assange denies the allegations.

BERLIN New draft legislation would make it harder for some migrants who have been denied asylum in Germany to obtain waivers to stay in the country, the German newspaper Die Welt said on Wednesday.
It said new legislation drafted by Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere and being circulated among other ministries would establish new rules for deporting migrants who had broken German law and who posed significant danger.
De Maiziere and other conservative government officials  began urging faster repatriation of those whose asylum applications have been denied after a spate of violent attacks in Germany in July, two of which were carried out by Syrian refugees linked to the Islamic State militant group.
Police on Monday arrested a 22-year-old Syrian man who had been granted temporary asylum in June 2015 and said he was ready to carry out attacks similar to those in Brussels and Paris. Intelligence sources on Tuesday said the man had ties to Islamic State.
The incident has fueled criticism of Chancellor Angela Merkel, and de Maiziere, whose conservative Christian Democrats have lost support to the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party over the government's open-door refugee policy.
Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann, a member of the CDU's Bavarian sister party, and other top officials in that party, have called for a review of all migrants who were granted asylum after last year's influx of nearly a million people.
As of Aug. 31 there were 210,0209 migrants in Germany who were required to leave, of whom 158,190 had been granted waivers of some kind that allowed them to stay temporarily, Die Welt said, citing the draft legislation.
"If deportation is not possible because the foreigner has, for example, misled authorities about identity or nationality, or is not cooperating with efforts to secure a replacement passport, then he will no longer receive exceptional leave to stay," the legislative draft said.
The refusal of the country of origin to issue replacement papers would also no longer be a reason for granting waivers, the paper said.
In addition, the legislation would require authorities to notify migrants only 30 days before their scheduled deportation, so as to minimize the opportunity for them to go underground to avoid leaving the country.
The draft law would also increase the time that those who refused to leave the country could be held in custody to two weeks from four days currently.

BEIJING A court has jailed for life the former top official in a major Chinese city after convicting him of corruption, state media said on Wednesday, the latest person caught in the government's sweeping campaign against graft.
Shen Weichen had been Communist Party chief in Taiyuan, provincial capital of the northern province of Shanxi. He was put under investigation in 2014.
Coal-rich Shanxi has been one of the epicenters of President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption fight.
The court in the eastern province of Jiangsu found Shen guilty of taking bribes worth almost 100 million yuan  ($15 million), the official China Daily said.
Shen abused his power to "gain benefits for others, including in business dealings and job promotions", the paper said, citing the judgment.
Shen received life in jail rather than a death sentence because he confessed his crimes and expressed regret, the report added.
It was not possible to reach relatives or legal representatives of Shen for comment.
Shanxi's provincial party boss said in June that parts of the province had been "disaster areas" when it came to corruption, but things were getting better.
Shanxi, as one of China's top coal producing provinces, has seen its economy boom on the back of soaring energy demand over the past decade, one of the reasons state media has given for its corruption problem.
($1 = 6.6685 Chinese yuan renminbi)

RIO DE JANEIRO The state security secretary of Rio de Janeiro will step down from his post at month's end, as violence and crime rebound in the Brazilian city and erase many of the gains made during the near-decade he was in the job.
Jose Mariano Beltrame, a former police officer who was lauded in recent years because of reduced violence and inroads against criminal gangs in Rio, on Monday submitted his resignation. In recent months he had decried a lack of resources and political commitment by the state government on security issues.
The state on Tuesday confirmed his departure following the completion of municipal elections on Oct. 30.
Rio Governor Luiz Fernando Pezão, who will soon return from leave after a bout with cancer, told Reuters the state reluctantly accepted Beltrame's resignation. "It was 10 years of service, lots of wear and lots of pressure," Pezão said.
Beltrame, 59, brought more stability to once-dangerous slums and paved the way for Rio, Brazil's second-biggest city and a metropolitan region of more than 12 million people, to host the 2014 World Cup and the Olympic Games earlier this year.
He also increasingly criticized parts of the state and municipal governments for a lack of follow-through with public services, from basic sanitation to health and education, needed to build upon security advances and truly fold marginalized neighborhoods into Rio's social fabric.
After an economic boom fizzled in recent years, the state is slashing its security budget and other public expenditures.
Falling tax revenue amid Brazil's worst recession since the Great Depression, combined with lower royalties from offshore oil fields, will cause a 2016 state deficit of as much as 20 billion reais ($6.23 billion), according to state figures.
Meanwhile, drug traffickers and other criminal gangs have grown emboldened to retake territory the state had occupied in effort to "pacify" districts that for decades had been fully controlled by outlaws.
On Monday, a daylong gun battle waged between state police and suspected traffickers in a hillside slum that overlooks some of Rio's wealthiest districts.
At least three of the suspects were killed and several policemen were injured in the fighting. A video filmed by an onlooker and broadcast by local media showed one of those shot by police plummeting from a mountainside.
Also on Monday, fighting around Cidade de Deus, another well-known slum, led local officials to close 21 schools, causing 8000 children to miss class.
($1 = 3.21 Brazilian reais)

UNITED NATIONS There is "extreme risk" to the stability of Democratic Republic of Congo as a deepening political rift over President Joseph Kabila's future will likely spark large-scale violence, the United Nations envoy to the country said on Tuesday.
Kabila, in office since 2001, is barred by constitutional term limits from standing for a third term. But the country's electoral commission says logistical and budgetary obstacles will prevent it from organizing a new poll before December 2018.
"Actors on all sides appear more and more willing to resort to violence to achieve their ends," Maman Sidikou, head of the 18,000-strong U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo, known as MONUSCO, told the U.N. Security Council.
"While MONUSCO will do everything it can within its mandate to protect civilians, the scope of the threats dramatically outstrip the mission's capabilities," he said.
Anger has been simmering for months in Congo over what opponents of Kabila believe are his efforts to hold on to power as other African leaders have done. In March, the U.N. Security Council called on the country to organize a poll this year.
Last month anti-government protests in the capital Kinshasa turned violent and dozens of people were killed. The Security Council called on Congolese authorities to exercise maximum restraint and urged the leaders not to exacerbate the situation.
A Congolese opposition leader was arrested late on Sunday for his role in anti-government demonstrations last month in which more than 50 people died, the government said on Monday, leading to threats of more protests if he is not released.
"The Democratic Republic of Congo has entered a period of extreme risk to its stability," Sidikou said. "The coming period will certainly be extremely difficult, the tipping point in the serious violence could be reached very quickly."
Congo, Africa's top copper producer, has been further destabilized by the fall in global commodity prices, which forced the government in June to cut its 2016 budget.

LONDON A senior British lawmaker has accused Russia of targeting civilians in Syria in the same way the Nazis behaved at Guernica during the Spanish civil war of the 1930s.
Andrew Mitchell, a lawmaker in Prime Minister Theresa May's ruling Conservatives and a former Secretary of State for International Development, said an attack last month on a United Nations relief convoy near the northern Syrian city of Aleppo was a war crime committed by Russian forces.
Some 20 people were killed in the attack on the U.N. and Syrian Arab Red Crescent convoy and the United States blamed two Russian warplanes which it said were in the skies above the area at the time of the incident.
Moscow rejects the accusations saying it only targets militants and accuses the West of being responsible for the crisis in Syria.
"When it comes to incendiary weapons and munitions such as bunker-buster bombs and cluster bombs, the U.N. makes it clear that the systematic use of such indiscriminate weapons in densely populated areas amounts to a war crime," Mitchell told parliament late on Monday.
"We are witnessing events that match the behavior of the Nazi regime in Guernica in Spain," he said referring to the destruction of the Spanish town in 1937 by German aircraft from Adolf Hitler's Luftwaffe. The bombing of the historic city became the subject of a famous painting by artist Pablo Picasso.
"Who's this politician?" Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov asked reporters when told about Mitchell's comment. "Unfortunately I don't know him, who is he? I would not comment in any way. To my shame, I don't know him."
The British parliament is due to hold a three-hour debate on Tuesday about the humanitarian situation in Syria.

LONDON British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson warned Russia on Tuesday it risked becoming a pariah nation if it continued to bomb civilian sites in Syria and urged protesters to demonstrate outside the Russian embassy against its alleged war crimes.
Western nations on the United Nations Security Council are taking a tougher line against Russia amid growing anger over a Russian-backed Syrian government onslaught against rebel-held areas of the city of Aleppo.
"If Russia continues on its current path then I think that great country is in danger of becoming a pariah nation," Johnson told parliament, calling on anti-war protest groups to demonstrate outside the Russian embassy.
"I'd certainly like to see demonstrations outside the Russian embassy," he said, calling on anti-war groups such as the Stop the War coalition, which is backed by the leader of Britain's main opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn.
Russian jets resumed heavy bombing of rebel-held eastern Aleppo on Tuesday after several days of relative calm, a rebel official and the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said.
President Bashar al-Assad seeks the complete recapture of Aleppo, Syria's biggest city before the 5-1/2-year war, and which has been divided between government and opposition control for years.
Johnson also said the West should do more to put pressure on Russia, which has helped the Syrian government gain the upper hand against rebels on many frontlines in the conflict. He blamed Russia for an attack on an aid convoy in Syria last month.
"We've got to make sure we have innovative ways of getting aid into Aleppo, and as several members have said, we have to step up the pressure on Assad's regime through sanctions and on the Russians through sanctions," he said.

BEIRUT The leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah movement, Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, said on Tuesday the Middle East was in a phase of escalating tension and there appeared to be no prospect of a political solution to the war in Syria.
"The regional scene is currently one of tension and escalation, and it does not appear that there are paths for negotiations or solutions", he said in a rare live televised speech before thousands of supporters in Beirut.
Speaking about Syria, where the Iran-backed group is fighting alongside Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Nasrallah said "the theater was open to more tension, escalation and confrontation".
However, large sections of his more than hour-long address, marking Shi'ite Islam's annual Ashura commemorations, were spent attacking Sunni power Saudi Arabia, the main regional rival of Iran, mostly over its military campaign in Yemen.
Nasrallah said the Saudi leadership were pushing their country to "the abyss" and accused Riyadh of being responsible for an air strike on a Yemeni funeral in the capital Sanaa on Saturday that killed scores of people.
Saudi Arabia, which backs Syrian rebels, earlier this year marshalled other Arab states to denounce Hezbollah as a terrorist group, part of Riyadh's efforts to contain Iran's influence and reduce its ability to support Assad.
Hezbollah denies being involved in terrorism and Nasrallah accused Saudi Arabia of supporting terrorism in his speech on Tuesday.
The thousands of Hezbollah supporters in the crowd, mostly dressed in the traditional dark colors worn by Shi'ites at Ashura, were shown repeatedly chanting "Death to the Al Saud", Riyadh's ruling dynasty, while pumping their fists in the air.



LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A group of up to 17 countries led by Belarus has blocked a plan to include the rights of gay, lesbian and transgender communities in a new urban strategy drawn up by the United Nations, according to sources close to negotiations.
Canada, backed by the European Union, the United States and Mexico, had pushed for including the recognition of LGBT people and an acknowledgment of homophobia in a key policy paper to be finalised at a major UN conference in Ecuador next week.
The UN's 'New Urban Agenda' is a non-binding agreement to address the challenges of rapidly growing cities globally and will be adopted at Habitat III in Quito, setting out guidelines for sustainable urban development over the next 20 years.
The recognition of LGBT communities and an acknowledgment of homophobia would be seen as a significant step by the United Nations with same sex relationships illegal in 76 countries around the world and punishable by death in seven.
But sources said a behind-the-scenes campaign by Belarus, supported by various nations including Russia, Egypt, Qatar, Indonesia, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates, had resulted in the document only referring to cities being "friendly for families".
Josh Bueckert, a spokesman for the Canadian government, said Canada "fought hard" to have gay rights and homophobia officially recognized and insisted throughout negotiations that the "most vulnerable and disadvantaged" be kept in mind.
"We are not able to speak to the positions of other countries on the negotiation of the declaration for the New Urban Agenda ... unfortunately the LGBTQ2 community was left out," Bueckert told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
A "Call for Action" section in the paper recognizes the special vulnerabilities and discrimination of specific groups in cities with the list including women and girls, the disabled, indigenous people, the homeless, slum dwellers, refugees and youth - but makes no mention of LGBT people.

ANTI-GAY SENTIMENT
Negotiations to thrash out the wording of the New Urban Agenda have been held over many months all over the world.
The final meetings prior to next week's conference that will include up to 30,000 delegates were held in New York in August and Surabaya, Indonesia, in July where there has been growing anti-gay sentiment this year.
The Indonesian government stated in August that there is "no room" for an LGBT movement in the southeast Asian nation.
Sources said that on the second day of the Surabaya talks, the words "family friendly" emerged from the Belarus delegation as a preferred option and Russia and Egypt supported the shift.
The Thomson Reuters Foundation was unable to contact a member of the Belarus delegation for comment.
However a release from Belarus stressed the "need for main streaming the family across the UN Post-2015 Development Agenda", saying the statement was made for 17 countries.
This list of countries also included Bangladesh, Malaysia, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Iran and Zimbabwe. It says the group wish to "reaffirm that the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society".
"We are convinced the human rights women and men, children and older persons, persons with disabilities could be best promoted and protected within the family environment," it said.
Ellen Woodsworth, chair of Women Transforming Cities International Society and a former Vancouver city councilor, drove the initial Canadian push to enshrine gay rights in the document.
She told the Thomson Reuters Foundation that she was shocked when she first raised the idea to be told that she should forget it because "Russia will shoot it out of the water" but was then told that Russia did indeed support the Belarus motion.
"Cities are where LGBT people go to find community but that in many nations they don't just face silencing but extreme violence," she said.
"It is just unbelievable that a document such as this on cities should not contain protections against discrimination for sexual orientation."

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Two Kazakh land rights activists who are due to go on trial over their involvement in public protests against land reforms in the Central Asian nation are facing unfounded criminal charges and should be released, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said on Tuesday.
Max Bokayev and Talgat Ayanov are each facing up to 10 years in prison on charges of inciting social and national discord, disseminating false information and organizing an illegal protest, the human rights group said.
"What we have here are individuals that are being criminally prosecuted and face extended prison terms for exercising their right to peaceful protest," Mihra Rittmann, Europe and Central Asia researcher at HRW, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Bokayev and Ayanov should be freed," Rittmann said in a statement. "Expressing a negative opinion about government policy is not a crime."
The Kazakh embassy in London did not reply to requests for comment.
The protests, in April and May, were sparked by fears the reforms would allow foreigners - especially Chinese companies - to take over farmland, though many Kazakhs also demonstrated to express general discontent at President Nursultan Nazarbayev's rule.
Police detained dozens of protesters most of whom were either fined or jailed for up to 15 days.
Several leading activists, including Bokayev and Ayanov, were charged with more serious offences.
In a rare climbdown following the protests, Nazarbayev in August deferred a plan to lease large areas of farmland to foreign investors for five years. He also set up a commission to review the land reforms and replaced the ministers for the economy and agriculture.
The legal changes in Kazakhstan which have been shelved for five years would allow the government to sell land to joint ventures, provided they are controlled by Kazakh residents.
Land sales to foreigners remain barred but the maximum term of lease to foreigners is extended to 25 years from 15 years.

BRASILIA The speaker of Brazil's lower house of Congress said on Tuesday he had scrapped a bill that would have forced the government to give cash-strapped states a bigger share of the billions of dollars it collects from wealthy Brazilians to legalize undeclared assets held abroad.
The government had opposed sharing more revenue from the so-called amnesty program, which is key for President Michel Temer's government to meet its budget deficit target for this year. The bill was aimed at easing the fiscal strains of states and municipalities struggling to pay public employees and provide services.
The governor of the northeastern state of Piaui, Wellington Dias, said states were considering suing the federal government to get a bigger share of the proceeds from the program.
"It is up to each state to decide if they go to court to get their share," Dias said after a meeting with finance ministry officials in Brasilia. "I hope the government can decide on this and give states and municipalities what is rightfully theirs."
States receive about half of the tax revenues generated by the amnesty program but none from the fines collected by the central government. The program slaps a 15 percent tax on the total amount of assets held abroad, along with a fine equal to 15 percent of the assets.
Finance Minister Henrique Meirelles said earlier on Tuesday that the government would increase the share of states and municipalities, but only on amounts exceeding the 50 billion reais ($16 billion) in proceeds it expects to collect from the program.
The program was introduced late last year and is due to expire at the end of this month.
House Speaker Rodrigo Maia was the leading supporter of changes that would have extended the deadline of the program, altered the period used as the basis to levy fines and increased revenue sharing with states. He said he removed the bill from the house's official agenda given the resistance from the opposition, which had threatened to block a vote earlier on Tuesday.
"There is no turning back on this matter," Maia told reporters. "The current rules remain in place. The government will not lose anything."
Other countries from Mexico to Argentina have launched similar programs to raise revenue to help make up for a drop in commodity prices that has hurt exports and tax revenue.
($1 = 3.22 reais)

WASHINGTON The Pentagon on Tuesday warned that whoever fired missiles at a U.S. Navy destroyer and an accompanying ship off the coast of Yemen over the weekend had done so "at their own peril," language that suggested preparations for possible retaliation.
Two shore-launched cruise missiles, which U.S. officials believe were designed to hit vessels at sea, were fired at the U.S. Navy ships on Sunday from Houthi-controlled territory of Yemen, just north of the Bab al-Mandab strait.
Both failed to hit the ships but the attack, which was first reported by Reuters, could deepen U.S. involvement in Yemen. U.S. military action in the country has largely been reserved for the battle against al Qaeda's affiliate, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, not the Houthis.
"Anybody who takes action, fires against U.S. Navy ships operating in international waters, does so at their own peril,"   Pentagon spokesman Captain Jeff Davis told a news briefing.
Asked whether the Pentagon was developing targets for retaliatory strikes, Davis said: "I'm not confirming that right now."
U.S. support for a Saudi Arabia-led coalition battling the Houthis has been reduced in recent months, and had been under review amid growing concerns about civilian casualties in Yemen's war. It includes refueling Saudi jets that are carrying out strikes.
The Houthis, allies of Iran who drove the Western- and Saudi Arabia-backed President Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi from the capital in 2014, have denied firing at the USS Mason guided missile destroyer and the USS Ponce, an amphibious transport dock.
But U.S. officials have told Reuters that Washington is operating under the assumption that Houthi forces fired the cruise missiles on Sunday.
Davis suggested as much on Tuesday, noting that the Houthis had previously acknowledged responsibility for firing on a vessel from the United Arab Emirates a week earlier.
"The Houthis have said publicly before that they would target any ships in that area that were supporting the coalition against them," Davis said.
"So the facts certainly seem to point to it, but we are still assessing and we will have more for you."
The strikes against the UAE and U.S. vessels risks disrupting commercial traffic through the Bab al-Mandab strait, one of the world's busiest routes.
While shipping companies have yet to divert vessels, there are growing worries that an escalation could hinder oil supplies and lead to higher insurance costs. Nearly four million barrels of oil are shipped daily through the Bab al-Mandab gateway to Europe, the United States and Asia.
The UN last week said it took threats to shipping around Bab al-Mandeb "extremely seriously."

DUBAI A rights group urged the Iranian judiciary on Tuesday to quash a death sentence against a 22-year-old woman accused of murdering her husband, who she said had repeatedly abused her.
Zeinab Sekaanvand was arrested in February 2012 and convicted of her husband's murder after what London-based Amnesty International called a "grossly unfair trial". She faces execution by hanging as soon as Oct. 13.
Sekaanvand was just 17 when she allegedly committed the crime, making her a minor by international legal standards. She said she had been physically abused by her husband.
"This is an extremely disturbing case," said Philip Luther, research and advocacy director for the Middle East and North Africa at Amnesty International.
"Not only was Zeinab Sekaanvand under 18 years of age at the time of the crime, she was also denied access to a lawyer and says she was tortured after her arrest by male police officers through beatings all over her body."
Last year, a similar case drew condemnation from rights groups when Iran executed Fatemeh Salbehi, who had suffocated her husband after drugging him when she was only 17. Like Sekaanvand, Salbehi said her husband had abused her.
In the past decade, Iran has executed at least 73 juvenile offenders, according to the January Amnesty report.
Under Iranian law, adulthood is legally determined by puberty, which is defined as age 15 for boys and nine for girls. In recent years, the judiciary has generally held off on executing minors until after they turn 18.

ABIDJAN Ivory Coast's parliament on Tuesday approved changing the constitution to ease nationality rules for presidential candidates, a move the government says will end prolonged instability but which the opposition says is undemocratic.
Ouattara promised during his re-election campaign last year to remove the constitution's requirement for presidential candidates to have parents who are both native-born Ivorians - a sore point in a country that has long attracted immigrants from neighboring states in West Africa.
Nationality was at the heart of a crisis that began with a 1999 coup and ballooned into a 2002-2003 civil war that split the major cocoa-producing country in two for eight years.
The new proposals soften the nationality clause, which had been used by Ouattara's opponents to bar him from elections and was a symbol of exclusion, particularly of northerners like him whose family ties often straddle borders.
Of 250 members of parliament, 239 voted for the constitutional change while eight voted against and two abstained. The measure will now go to a referendum on Oct. 30.
Other revisions included removing a maximum age of 75 for presidential candidates and making it easier to change the constitution in future.
Opposition politicians and some civil society groups have opposed the changes. Pascal Affi N'Guessan, the head of the main opposition FPI party, criticized the proposed creation of the post of vice-president and a senate, a third of whose members would be appointed by the president, among other changes.
Opposition supporters demonstrated against the draft constitution on Saturday and promised to do so again if it was passed by parliament.

JAKARTA (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Teenage girls across the world became government ministers, mayors and chief executives for a day on Tuesday in a global campaign to push for greater gender equality.
They staged the mock takeover in more than 50 countries -   including Thailand, Bangladesh and Canada - as political and business figures stepped aside to let the girls take charge of issues affecting them, from child marriage to child labor.
"The takeover is a great statement of girls' power and their ability to change the world," said Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen, head of children's charity Plan International, which organized the campaign to mark the International Day of the Girl Child.
"It also serves as a reminder to governments how millions of girls are held back and denied an equal chance in life just because they are girls," she added in a statement.
Women head only 14 of 194 governments globally. Less than 4 percent of the world's 500 top corporations are led by women, according to Plan International, citing discrimination as a reason why women are left behind.
In Indonesia, 17-year-old Nur Annisa was named as the "manpower minister" for the day after she beat 600 other high school students who competed for the post in the campaign.
"I am nervous but very proud," Annisa told reporters before chairing a meeting with the new line-up at the ministry made up of 10 other teenage boys and girls.
"I will lead my ministry to identify the root causes of child labor and our action plan to tackle it," she said, adding that the campaign has inspired her to become a politician.
The International Day of the Girl Child, which takes place on Oct. 11 every year, is a United Nations initiative to recognize the rights of the 1.1 billion girls around the world and the challenges they face.

DAKAR (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Health workers have launched a drive to vaccinate more than 41 million children against polio in West Africa's Lake Chad as they race to contain an outbreak of the disease in conflict-hit northeast Nigeria, the United Nations said on Tuesday.
Some 39,000 health workers have been deployed across Nigeria, neighboring Chad, Niger and Cameroon, and nearby Central African Republic, to deliver polio vaccines in high-risk areas, said the U.N. children's agency (UNICEF).
Fighting between Islamist militant group Boko Haram and the Nigerian army is forcing people to flee their homes, raising fears that the virus could spread across borders, UNICEF said.
Boko Haram militants have killed about 15,000 people and displaced more than 2.6 million in a seven-year insurgency and continue to launch deadly attacks despite having been pushed out of the vast swathes of territory they controlled in 2014.
After two years in which polio appeared beaten in Africa, Nigeria reported three cases in August, casting a shadow over global eradication hopes, according to the World Health Organization.
"The re-emergence of polio after two years with no recorded cases is a huge concern in an area already in crisis," said UNICEF regional director Manuel Fontaine. "We must not allow polio to spread."
The polio virus, which invades the nervous system and can cause irreversible paralysis within hours, spreads rapidly among children, especially in unsanitary conditions in war-torn regions, refugee camps and areas where healthcare is limited.
Experts estimate that for every case of polio that paralyzes its victim, 200 silent infections go undetected.
Polio vaccination teams in Borno state in northeast Nigeria are also identifying children suffering from malnutrition, and have found high rates of severe acute malnutrition, UNICEF said.
Famine-like conditions in the former stronghold of Boko Haram could kill 75,000 children over the next year if they do not receive aid, the U.N. agency said last month.
"Children are dying and more young lives will be lost unless we scale up our response," Fontaine said in a statement.
The Nigerian cases of polio are widely seen as a serious setback to efforts to eradicate the virus across the world.
In Pakistan and Afghanistan, the last two countries where polio remains endemic, 19 cases have been reported so far this year, the lowest ever annual tally. Until these latest infections, Nigeria's previous polio case was in July 2014.
Polio experts said in April that stopping all transmission of the disease was possible within 2016, and that official, global eradication could then be declared by 2020.

DAKAR (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Armed with mobile phones, young people across Nigeria are turning to social media to discuss and report cases of female genital mutilation (FGM) in a country where a quarter of girls and women have been cut, activists said on Tuesday.
While press freedom in Nigeria is limited, social media is rising in popularity and has been used to draw the attention of local and national authorities to violence against women and girls, according to anti-FGM charity 28 Too Many.
"Lots of young people are speaking out about FGM – whether it is Twitter chats, blogs or webinars," Nigerian activist Kelechukwu Nwachukwu told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Young people might not have access to traditional or print media, but they feel engaged on social media," added 22-year-old Nwachukwu, a law student who also works for The Girl Generation, a U.K.-funded program to end FGM in 10 African countries.
Around 20 million women and girls in Nigeria have undergone FGM, which is practiced in many African countries and pockets of the Middle East and Asia. FGM is estimated to have affected 200 million worldwide, the U.N. children's agency (UNICEF) says.
The ritual, often seen as a gateway to marriage and a way of preserving a girl's purity, involves the removal of the external genitalia and causes numerous health problems that can be fatal.
"If FGM does occur, the first place a case is reported is often on social media," said Mary Wandia, End FGM program manager at the London-based women's rights group Equality Now.
"It is hugely important to help gather information quickly," she said, adding that she had seen an increase in the use of Whatsapp, Facebook and Twitter to talk about the dangers of FGM.
Nigeria banned FGM in May last year. While 13 of the 36 states have legislation that bans the practice, the other states have yet to adopt the federal law, according to 28 Too Many.
"It takes time for each state to get their laws in place and then there is a challenge of implementing," the charity said in a report published on the International Day of the Girl Child.

NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Until almost two years ago, James Mbugua, a farmer living in Karai, a village on the outskirts of Kenya’s capital, relied on kerosene to light his house, and a car battery to power his television so he wouldn't miss the news.
Part of the reason he couldn't plug into the power grid, despite being so close to Nairobi and in an area where electricity is readily available, is that he lives on government land as a squatter, with no papers to show he owns the 70-foot by 80-foot parcel where he has put up a makeshift house.
Now, however, he has found an alternative: An affordable solar system to power his home.
"I could not go on like that and had to seek an alternative way of lighting my house and I discovered that with only $150 I could use solar to light my house and power the television plus radio,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
The money for the purchase, he said, came from a loan from his community savings group, which asks members to contribute $5 a month and then offers loans from that pot of cash.
The father of five grown children is one of the millions of people across Africa who are taking advantage of falling prices of home solar panel systems to get cheaper, cleaner and more reliable energy.
According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), home solar systems in Africa can now provide electricity for many households for as little as $56 a year – a cost lower than getting energy from diesel or kerosene.
Of the estimated 600 million people living off-grid in Africa, about 10 percent of them are now using off-grid clean energy to light their homes, according to IRENA statistics.
“About 60 million people may be using off-grid renewable electricity of some kind in Africa. That is about 10 percent of those living off–grid,” IRENA Director-General Adnan Z. Amin said at a recent off-grid renewable energy conference in Nairobi.

SOLAR, PHONES AND CASH
In East Africa alone, more than 350,000 people are now using solar panels to light their homes and technologies such as mobile phone-based money transfers to pay for the technology, he said. That suggests renewable energy could be a major driver to help the region meet a new U.N. Sustainable Development Goal to provide universal access to electricity by 2030.
“Here in Kenya, we find ourselves at one of the global epicenters of growth, where solar products combined with pay-as-you-go models and mobile payment technologies are breaking new ground in bottom-up electricity sector development,” Amin said.
According to Joseph Njoroge, Kenya’s energy and petroleum principal secretary, solar mini-grids – small-scale electricity networks, sometimes combined with wind power as well – are expected to play a major role in bringing electricity to  sparsely populated but vast northern Kenya, as well as to other areas not connected to the national grid.
“We have a third of Kenya’s population living in the northern part of the country, which is also two-thirds of the total area of the country, and it is here that we shall hugely deploy solar mini-grids to attain universal access to power – possibly even before the year 2030”, Njoroge said.
Last August Kenya won $36 million in support from France to put in place 23 mini-grid systems in northern Kenya that will use solar panels, wind or a combination of the two.

60 PERCENT PRICE DROP?
IRENA predicts that ongoing renewable energy innovation, including new business models and finance, will result in a 60 percent decrease in the cost of producing electricity from renewable mini-grids in the next 20 years.
Such significant cost drops are being seen not just in Africa but across the world, IRENA officials said. They attribute the cost declines to technological innovations, changes in regulatory policies and an improved investment environment for private money.
Solar home lighting systems – which now cost about $120 for a small-scale system in Kenya – have fallen by as much as 80 percent since 2010, according to IRENA. The agency noted that it expects the trend to continue.
At the same time, investments in off-grid solar systems globally grew by 15 times between 2012 and 2015, with $276 million spent on them in 2015.
Employment in the renewable energy sector worldwide hit 8.1 million jobs in 2015, an increase of 1.3 million compared to 2014, IRENA said. Solar panels led the way with 2.7 million jobs created.
In addition to lighting homes for the poor, off-grid renewable energy is being used to power things like health and education facilities, agriculture and water access – helping achieve at least a dozen of the other new Sustainable Development Goals, an IRENA report said.


LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Afghan women should benefit from a project to issue property titles to homeowners in Kabul, where more than two-thirds of the houses have no formal planning approval, the head of the government's land authority said on Tuesday.
Disputes over land and illegal property ownership are major challenges for the government of President Ashraf Ghani, which is leading efforts to protect citizens' property rights and modernize the process of registering property.
The Afghanistan Independent Land Authority (ARAZI) launched a pilot project this month to register properties in Kabul that were built before 2001 without planning permission, as part of a drive to secure land rights for residents.
In conservative male-dominated Afghanistan, properties are usually registered to men but ARAZI plans to issue joint ownership rights to married couples.
"Our goal is to give the women their fair share in the property," ARAZI Chief Executive Officer Jawad Peikar told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by telephone.
"Up to 70 percent of residential homes are unplanned constructions in all major cities of Afghanistan," he added.
Without legal protection, residents risk eviction or having their unregistered assets stolen from them by powerful interests, and are deprived of collateral for loans and investment, land rights campaigners say.
Peikar said he hoped the pilot project in Kabul to be completed in the next three to four months. If it is successful, the project could be rolled out across the country, he added.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A Yazidi woman who was held captive and raped by Islamic State militants in Iraq paid tribute to persecuted women and victims of human trafficking around the world as she received a human rights award from the Council of Europe.
Nadia Murad Basee Taha became the fourth recipient of the  Vaclav Havel Human Rights Prize for her work in bringing international attention to the enslavement of women and children in her community.
"I would like to dedicate this award to all women throughout the world who are persecuted and the thousands of Yazidi women and children who have been living in the hell of Daesh (Islamic State) for two years now," Taha said through an interpreter.
She also dedicated the award to the 2,000 Yazidi women who have escaped enslavement by the Islamic State.
"This will give me renewed strength to continue moving forward to fight against extremism in all its manifestations," Taha said accepting the award, named after the late playwright and human rights campaigner who became president of the Czech Republic.
Taha was abducted by Islamic State in Iraq in August 2014 and taken to the group's stronghold of Mosul, where she and thousands of other Yazidi women and children were exchanged by militants as gifts.
She was tortured and raped repeatedly before she escaped three months later.
The activist has traveled to Egypt, Greece, Kuwait, Norway, the United States and Britain to raise awareness about the plight of the Yazidis.
Appointed a U.N. goodwill ambassador for human trafficking victims last month, Taha has urged the international community to do more to bring the jihadist militants to justice.
In January, the United Nations said the Islamic State were still holding an estimated 3,500 people, mainly women and children, as slaves in Iraq.

MUMBAI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Malik Abdullah's plastic recycling business in Dharavi, the sprawling slum in Mumbai that is among the largest in Asia, has survived fire, building collapses, and the criminal underworld for decades. Now, it is threatened by development.
For 35 years, Abdullah has carried on the business built by his father, pulverizing used plastic cans and bottles into pellets, then selling them to factories to refashion.
Thousands of small businesses like his thrive in Dharavi, creating an informal economy with an annual turnover of $1 billion by some estimates.
Now, plans to replace the ramshackle workshops and decrepit homes with office blocks and high-rise apartments threaten the businesses that employ thousands of its 1 million residents.
"The city doesn't care about the businesses here, which are our livelihood," said Abdullah, 52, standing in an alley crammed with towering stacks of plastic containers.
"This is where we live, this is where we work. Where will we go if they only build flats and offices?" he said.
During the past two decades, there have been several attempts to develop Dharavi, which sprawls over 240 hectares (590 acres). However, residents have opposed many of them, saying they do not consider their interests.
Real estate in Mumbai, India's financial hub, is among the most expensive in the world. The contrast between rich and poor is stark, and about 60 percent of the city's population of more than 18 million lives in slums.
Dharavi has always been a magnet for migrants from across India. Many have lived there for decades, their one-room tenements and low-rise homes dwarfed by the gleaming glass and chrome office towers and luxury hotels that dot the city.
Amid Dharavi's narrow alleys, open drains and canopies of electric cables, migrants who came in search of better economic opportunities have created a community of schools, temples, mosques, restaurants, tailors and mobile phone shops.
Tens of thousands work as potters, leather tanners, weavers, soap makers, and in Dharavi's massive recycling industry.
Most homes double up as work spaces, the whirr of sewing machines, the clang of metal and the pungent odor of spices mingling with the call for prayer and the putrid smell of trash.
"People think of slums as places of static despair as depicted in films such as 'Slumdog Millionaire'," said Sanjeev Sanyal, an economist and writer, referring to the Academy Award-winning movie that exposed the gritty underbelly of Dharavi.
"If one looks past the open drains and plastic sheets, one will see that slums are ecosystems buzzing with activity... Creating neat low-income housing estates will not work unless they allow for many of the messy economic and social activities that thrive in slums," he said.

ROOF TOPS
Once a small fishing village, Dharavi was notorious as a den of crime in the 1970s and '80s. Following a massive crackdown, violent crime is rare and Dharavi has featured in movies, art projects and a Harvard Business School case study.
Fed by two suburban railway lines and perilously close to the Mumbai airport, Dharavi has lured developers, too.
Recent plans by city officials envisaged private developers clearing the area and building high-rise flats in which each eligible family gets a free 225 sq ft (21 sq meters) unit. The developer in turn gets rights to build commercial space to rent.
Dozens of such housing blocks have been built over the years, falling into disrepair as facilities were not upgraded.
What these buildings also lack is room for work. The squat tenements are perfectly suited for businesses, with living and sleeping spaces sitting atop work spaces, workers spilling into the alleys, and material stacked outside and on roof tops.
In Kumbharwada, the potter's colony, where migrants from neighboring Gujarat state make earthen water pots and lamps,  potters' wheels can be seen through open doorways, while ready pots are stacked in the alleys awaiting pickup.
The colony is abuzz ahead of the Dussehra and Diwali festivals, when decorated pots and lamps are in demand.
With small televisions turned on low, women sit cross-legged on the floor in their homes, painting motifs in red, yellow and green, and gluing on sequins and shiny bits of mica.
Down another alley, a group of women chat and braid leather strips for belts and bags on the stoop of a home.
"We want new flats, but they are small," said Sharada Tape, who earns about 100 rupees ($1.50) a day.
"There are no spaces like this where we can all sit and work. It will be difficult, but we need the money," she said.

RESIDENTS WANT MORE SAY
City officials last month submitted a new 250 billion rupee ($3.7 billion) redevelopment plan to Maharashtra state for approval after previous plans failed to attract bidders.
The new plan, a public-private partnership, has ample commercial space for businesses, but only for the "formal, legitimate" ones, said Debashish Chakrabarty, head of the Dharavi Redevelopment Authority.
"All the licensed businesses will have space under the plan. It will be better, cleaner than what they have now," he said.
"Those that are engaged in informal businesses have the option of applying for commercial licenses, then they can also get a space. If they don't, then we can't help them," he said.
It is this narrow definition of what's legal and permissible that is the biggest challenge, not just to recognizing Dharavi's businesses, but also determining Dharavi's fate, said Rahul Srivastava, a founder of the Institute of Urbanology in Mumbai.
"The biggest impediment to the improvement of many of these settlements is the misconception that they are illegitimate, because residents don't own the land they occupy," he said.
"Can settlements which are home to fifth-generation migrants be called 'informal'? We need to transform our perception of these neighborhoods," he said.
Across the country, plans to build modern Smart Cities will force tens of thousands of people from their slum homes as planners spruce up central business districts and build metro train lines, activists say.
Campaigners say until authorities give Dharavi residents more power and recognize the vital role of their businesses, any redevelopment plan is destined to fail.
"If we don't have these small enterprises, it wouldn't be Dharavi," said Jockin Arputham, president of the National Slum Dwellers' Federation in Mumbai.
"This is a people-sponsored economic zone, and the redevelopment should be around the economic zone. It is a township, not a slum, and it should be treated as one," he said.
Abdullah, the plastic recycler, is reconciled to his fate.
"We want development. We also want to keep our businesses," he said.
"But we have to be prepared for any eventuality. We are not owners of the land, so we may have to shut down," he said.

LONDON As Britain sets sail in uncharted waters on the lookout for post-Brexit trade deals, lawmakers and a former diplomat have earmarked two key weapons: the Duchess of Cambridge and a new royal yacht.
Following the vote in June for Britain to leave the European Union, and with the government facing the tricky task of securing new trade agreements, some 100 lawmakers from Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative Party have called for ministers to back the commissioning of a new royal yacht.
"I think we have to ask ourselves what sort of Britain we want to live in and what we can do ... to make Britain great again," said lawmaker Jake Berry as he put forward a motion in parliament on Tuesday calling for the reintroduction of the Royal Yacht Britannia.
"I believe if Brexit is going to mean successful Brexit, it should also mean the return of our royal yacht," he said to loud murmurs of approval.
Britannia first saw service back in 1954 before the sun set on the British empire and was decommissioned by the then Labour government in 1997, with Queen Elizabeth shedding tears in public when she bade it farewell.
Berry said Britannia, which he said had helped secure 3 billion pounds ($3.7 billion) in trade deals between 1991 and 1995, could be replaced at a cost of about 100 million pounds funded by business or public contributions but without taxpayers' money.
"In a post-Brexit Britain, we need our head of state now more than ever," he said. "She can uniquely portray a positive role for our nation around the globe and a new royal yacht is vital for doing this," he added, rejecting critics who called it a "sepia-tinted look back to 1950s".
While Berry has the backing of many in his party and a majority of Britain's national newspapers, not all lawmakers are impressed. Deirdre Brock, a Scottish National Party lawmaker, called it the "sad and sorry Britannia plan" and a throwback to "a rosy-tinted fiction of a time that never was".
The yacht might not the only royal weapon in the government's trade armory. The Sunday Telegraph reported that Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, wife of the queen's grandson Prince William, would be despatched on trips around Europe to help build bridges.
On Tuesday, she visited the Netherlands to carry out official engagements.
"It's obvious that the duchess is going to play this part in the future and this is a good way to start because relations with the Netherlands are good," former diplomat Oliver Miles told the paper.

ADDIS ABABA Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said on Tuesday that police had not used violent tactics against protesters and the government would investigate such incidents, speaking during a visit by German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Ethiopia has been hit by a wave of protests over land and political rights for more than a year, in which rights groups and the opposition say police have used excessive force. The government denies this and say the death toll is exaggerated.
Merkel told the prime minister that protests should be allowed and any police response should be proportionate.


TBILISI A small pro-Russian party has won seats in the Georgian parliament despite Russian troops controlling one fifth of the ex-Soviet republic and lingering memories of a short war between the two countries less than 10 years ago.
With 100 percent of the vote counted, data from the Central Election Commission showed on Tuesday that the pro-Russian Alliance of Patriots had won 5.01 percent of the vote, just passing the 5 percent threshold needed to get into parliament.
Its presence in the 150-seat parliament will be small, but some Georgians are upset that a pro-Russian party has got in despite recent history and are disappointed that smaller pro-Western parties failed to win any seats.
"I'm so disappointed that we won't have politicians from these other (pro-Western) parties in parliament," said Tamta Kirvalidze, a 26-year-old resident of Tbilisi, the capital.
The Alliance of Patriots favors greater integration with Russia and opposes Georgia joining NATO. Its leaders also talk up the Russian Orthodox Church's links to Georgia and warn that closer integration with Europe could damage Georgian traditions.
By contrast, the ruling Georgian Dream party, which comfortably won overall with 48.67 percent of the vote, favors integration with the West as well as closer ties with Russia, while the opposition United National Movement, which came second with 27.11 percent, is strongly pro-Western.
A U.S. ally traditionally buffeted between Russia and the West, Georgia hopes to join the European Union (EU) and NATO one day even though that is something that Russia, its former colonial master, strongly opposes.
Criss-crossed by strategically important oil and gas pipelines, a fifth of Georgian territory remains under the control of pro-Russian separatists following a short war with Russia in 2008.
Analysts don't expect any immediate changes in Georgia's foreign policy as a result of the election.
"I don't think that Georgia's pro-Western course will be changed, though a lot will depend on the pace of our integration with the West as well as on our desire to be more careful with Russia," said Koba Turmanidze, director of the Tbilisi-based Caucasus Research Resource Centre.

STRASBOURG, France Chess master Garry Kasparov on Tuesday won a case against  Russia at the European Court of Human Rights for unlawful arrest and violation of his right to attend a rally he missed as a result of his detention.
The complaint by the former world champion and political activist, a Russian national who lives in the United States, dates back to 2007, when Russian authorities confiscated his ticket and passport and detained him at Sheremetyevo Airport in Moscow.
The detention prevented him from attending an opposition political rally scheduled to be held at an EU-Russia summit in Samara.
According to a court statement, the 53 year-old Kasparov was questioned for five hours over whether his ticket had been forged.
"While the authorities claimed they had been investigating Mr Kasparov for committing the crime of forgery, there was no evidence that any forgery had taken place, let alone that the authorities had a reasonable suspicion that he had committed that offense," the court statement said.

WASHINGTON An increase in activity at a North Korean satellite launch site could indicate preparations for a new test or other activities, a U.S.-based monitoring group said on Saturday.
The 38 North group, run by Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, said satellite images taken on Oct. 1 show increased activity at the Sohae Satellite Launching Station, including crates on the launch pad and vehicles near the fuel and oxidizer buildings.
But it added that since some of the structures on the launch pad are covered, "it is unclear whether this activity is related to launch preparations or other operations."
North Korea conducted its fifth and biggest nuclear test on Sept. 9 and South Korea has said it believes the north is ready to conduct another nuclear test at any time. There has been speculation that Pyongyang could mark the Oct. 10 anniversary of the founding of its Workers' Party with a sixth detonation.
North Korea has been testing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles at an unprecedented rate this year under leader Kim Jong Un's direction, including the launch of a satellite in February that was widely seen as a test of long-range ballistic missile technology.
The Sohae center is the North's newly upgraded rocket station where the February satellite launch and other rocket tests have been conducted.
On Friday, 38 North said an increase in activity at North Korea's Punggye-ri nuclear test site could signal preparations for a new test or a collection of data from its last one.
North Korea conducted its first nuclear test in 2006 and has since defied U.N. sanctions to press ahead with the development of the weapons and missiles to carry them, which it says it needs for defense.
In January, it conducted its fourth nuclear test and the fifth was carried out on the anniversary of the nation's founding.

ISTANBUL Looking across Istanbul's skyline, it is impossible not to be struck by the array of red-and-white, star-and-crescent flags fluttering from buildings, monuments, bridges and flagpoles.
Patriotism in Turkey has always been strong, but in the wake of July's failed coup by members of the military, President Tayyip Erdogan has tapped freely into the populist, banner-draped fervor to remould the nation in his image.
The questions are, what sort of Turkey does Erdogan want, and what steps will this powerful and sometimes unpredictable leader take to achieve his vision?
The answers could have far-reaching implications for the global role played by the Muslim-majority NATO member, whose assistance is seen in the West as vital in the war against Islamic State and in tackling the migrant crisis.
At one level, diplomats and analysts say, Erdogan has made his aims perfectly clear. In the three months since the coup attempt, authorities have suspended or dismissed 100,000 civil servants, judges, lecturers, military personnel and police - purging some of the most established pillars of society.
Anyone with suspected links to U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, who Erdogan accuses of masterminding the putsch, is a possible target. Gulen has denied plotting against the state and any involvement in the coup.
More than 30,000 people have been arrested. Five percent of the entire police force has been removed from duty. Whole ministerial departments have been shut down.
Some Western allies fear creeping authoritarianism and a shift toward a political model built around a strong leader and dominant single party but lacking checks and balances in Turkey, whose size, military power and location between Europe, the Middle East and Asia give it significant strategic clout.
"He wants a Turkey where he is the undisputed, unchallenged decider without the constraints of a normal democratic system," said James Jeffrey, a former U.S. ambassador to Ankara and a senior fellow at the Washington Institute.
"He won't overturn the constitution or get rid of democracy, but he wants to render the opposition incapable of challenging him and to exercise clear power over them," he told Reuters.
By contrast, Erdogan's loyal supporters see him as the champion of the pious masses, forging a proud and independent nation that will not be dictated to by outside powers.
The president and his aides bristle at the notion he is dictatorial. They point to his succession of election victories, first as leader of the ruling AK Party, and then in Turkey's first popular presidential election in 2014.

OTTOMAN PRIDE
But Erdogan's ambitions likely go further than taking back control and projecting authority.
While the 62-year-old may have no desire to recreate the Ottoman empire, political analysts and diplomats say he wants to draw on that sense of greatness to craft a Turkey that bestrides the world, respected and perhaps a little feared by neighbors and peers.
In speeches and comments before and since the failed putsch, Erdogan has frequently referenced the Ottoman period, when Turkey's forefathers held territory stretching from southeast Europe to the Caucasus, North Africa and Iraq.
He often laments the concessions made by Turkish leaders after World War One, with the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne that brought modern Turkey into being in 1923, as if to suggest only he can restore the nation's illustrious past.
"What you're witnessing in Turkey is tied up with an almost constant desire to reclaim the heritage of the Ottoman empire, which was of course a polyglot, multi-ethnic entity," said Bulent Aliriza, director of the Turkey project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
"In almost every one of Erdogan's speeches there are these themes: You can be proud you are a Turk, proud that you are a Muslim, we have influence in our region and beyond. The expression 'Great Turkey' is used almost all the time."
In August, with great symbolism and fanfare, Erdogan inaugurated a new bridge over the Bosphorus between Europe and Asia. The span, the third over the strait, was named after a 16th-century Ottoman ruler, Yavuz Sultan Selim. "Be proud of your power, Turkey," announced adverts on television.
At the U.N. General Assembly in September, the most high-profile speech Erdogan has made abroad since the failed coup, he expanded on two of his favorite themes: how Turkey helps the oppressed and serves as a role model in the Muslim world, and how power at the United Nations is too narrowly held.
"The world is greater than five," he said, referring to the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. "A Security Council that does not represent the entire world can never serve to re-establish peace and justice around the world."

'CRITICAL JUNCTURE'
Since coming to power in 2003, first as prime minister and then as president, Erdogan has overseen a period of rapid economic growth and increased regional influence.
While he may have no territorial ambitions, Turkey does have troops in northern Syria, is training militias in Iraq - to the growing concern of the government in Baghdad - and has hopes of turning itself into a regional energy hub, a crossroads between Russia, Iran and the East Mediterranean.
"He's trying to exercise influence in the region by dint of Turkey's large and powerful economy and its claim to be an Islamic power," said Jeffrey. "There is a bit of going back to Ottoman times and going back to Turkish dominance of the region - he wants a more Islamic alternative to the West."
It appears a popular formula. A poll in late July, two weeks after the coup attempt, showed Erdogan with two-thirds approval among Turkey's 78 million people, his highest rating ever.
Yet in striving for that more self-confident and perhaps more feared Turkey, Erdogan has at times walked a thin line, straining ties with the European Union and the wider West, which are wary of what they see as his creeping authoritarianism.
Turkey's $720 billion economy is fueled in large part by trade and investment with Europe. Its working week runs from Monday to Friday to align with business in London and New York, not the rest of the Muslim world. In theory, Turkey still plans to join the European Union and is a central player in NATO.
The country's annual average growth rate has been tapering, to around 3 percent from 5 percent, and there is a need for a new impetus to bring unemployment down among millions of younger Turks. That requires staying open to the West.
Andrew Duff, a former member of the European Parliament who was vice-chairman of the Turkey-EU joint parliamentary committee, sees Erdogan as "entirely fickle" regarding Europe and focused for now on exploiting Islam and nationalism.
"I'm afraid this is only going to get worse," said Duff, who has been accused by Turkish authorities of being a "Gulenist", a charge he dismisses with a laugh. "I'm sure Erdogan's aim is to remain in power at least until 2023, the centenary of the founding of the republic."
Duff does not think Erdogan will pivot to the East permanently. But for now, Europe, NATO and the West find themselves with a volatile partner.
"From the historical point of view, it's fascinating because Turkey is really poised," said Aliriza. "Whether it continues to look to its nation-state past and its opening to the West, or a hoped-for glorious future in which Turkey will draw closer to its brethren in the East. It's at a critical juncture."

BERLIN A fire broke out on Tuesday on the roof of the Europa-Center, a landmark shopping center in western Berlin, a spokesman at the fire department in the German capital said.
He said it was too early to say what had caused the fire, which appears to have engulfed the roof of the building in the Charlottenburg district, whose high-end shopping streets and palace are major tourist attractions.
There were no reports of injuries.
Pictures and video published on social media showed flames and smoke rising from the top of the 20-storey Europa-Center,  which was built in the early 1960s after the Berlin Wall was erected.
It is recognizable by a rotating Mercedes-Benz star, which made it an icon of capitalist West Berlin.


BAGHDAD Nuri al-Maliki is once again positioning himself as Iraq's most powerful man, poised to return as kingmaker in a fight for influence that could decide Iraq's fate as a unified country after the coming battle to recapture Mosul from Islamic State.
Two years after he was pressured to leave office by both the United States and Iran for failing to stop Islamic State fighters from sweeping across the country, the former prime minister still leads a powerful Shi'ite parliamentary bloc.
In recent weeks his followers have been using their authority in parliament to dismantle the cabinet of his successor, Haidar al-Abadi.
They have held corruption hearings, forcing out the government's leading Sunni and Kurdish figures, Defence Minister Khaled al-Obeidi and Finance Minister Hoshiyar Zebari, who both deny corruption and say they were pushed out to hurt Abadi.
Maliki's office denies that he has any plans to return to the premiership, and his allies say he is more likely to try to name an ally as the next prime minister rather than take back the role for himself.
But there is now little doubt that his aim is to sideline Abadi and restore the power of his own Iran-backed Shi'ite faction, which minority Sunni and Kurdish politicians say could put Iraq's future at risk even if it vanquishes Islamic State.
Zebari, who served as foreign minister for more than a decade and was Baghdad's most senior Kurdish politician until he was forced out of the finance ministry last month, said Maliki was deliberately undermining the government on the eve of the campaign to recapture Islamic State's last major stronghold.
"They don’t want this government to succeed in Mosul," Zebari told Reuters in Erbil, the capital of Iraq's Kurdish autonomous region, referring to the northern city where U.S.-backed Iraqi forces are preparing for a major offensive.
"Because Maliki was responsible for the fall of Mosul and the melting of the Iraqi security forces under his command. So any successes here would be a major rebuke to him and his future chances of a comeback."
In the latest victory for Maliki, the supreme court ruled on Monday that Abadi violated the constitution last year by scrapping three positions of vice-president. Maliki, who became one of the three vice presidents when he left office as prime minister, will now return to that job.
Two politicians close to Maliki said parliament may soon summon Abadi himself to face questioning in parliament over his performance, as well as Foreign Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, another former prime minister and potential rival to Maliki.
Maliki's media office denied that the campaign against ministers in Abadi's cabinet was part of an attempt by the former prime minister to return to power and said the moves demonstrated parliament exercising its role to hold the government to account.
But allies say Maliki will seek to remove Abadi from office at the next election, whether or not Abadi, who lacks a strong political faction of his own, decides to campaign as part of an alliance with Maliki.
Maliki's "aim is not necessarily to become PM but to have the PM chosen supported by him," said Sami al-Askari, a former lawmaker who has served as an advisor to Maliki.
"If Abadi joins Maliki for the elections, Maliki will not choose him to be PM again; if Abadi runs without Maliki, he has no chance to win enough seats."

CONCILIATORY TECHNOCRAT
Maliki left office reluctantly in 2014 after the security forces crumbled and fled in the face of a lightning advance by Sunni Muslim fighters from Islamic State.
His foes, including the Obama administration in Washington, accused Maliki of having run a sectarian government during eight years in power that alienated Sunnis, driving them into the arms of Islamic State, and undermined the morale of the army.
Abadi, a conciliatory technocrat, took office promising to reduce sectarian polarization. He swiftly introduced reforms to limit the patronage of sectarian parties by cutting the number of senior posts, although parliament has mostly fought to block or delay the changes.
Abadi has won widespread credit for rebuilding the army with American support and recapturing most of the territory seized by Islamic State. But he has not built up a political power base of his own in the parliament, which was elected in 2014 and where Maliki's faction is still the largest.
A new national election is not due until 2018. But the two politicians allied to Maliki said it could be brought forward to as soon as April next year when provincial elections are due.
Jasim al-Bahadli, a Baghdad-based political analyst, said Maliki's ambition to shape the next government was realistic given the backing he still has among majority Shi'ites.
Maliki "has still enough support from large sections of the Shi’ite community, not necessarily to return to power, but to have the upper hand to decide who should be the next prime minister," Bahadli said.

AFTER MOSUL
Despite removing some of Abadi's cabinet colleagues, parliament is unlikely to take the drastic step of unseating the prime minister himself before the U.S.-backed offensive on Mosul, which could start as soon as this month.
That battle will be fateful. Mosul is the largest city in northern Iraq, four times the size of any other city captured by Islamic State. Defeating the militant group there would destroy its self-proclaimed caliphate in Iraq. But a victory will not be enough on its own to ensure Iraq survives as a unified state.
Kurdish and Sunni politicians fear a new phase of turmoil, with sects and ethnic groups fighting for oil and land in areas where the militants once ruled.
Maliki's return to a position of power would make it more difficult for Baghdad to win over the loyalty of Sunnis, said Baghdad-based political analyst Ahmed Younis.
Sunnis "look to Maliki’s period as their worst ever, during which they were hugely persecuted and suffered bloody crackdowns against what they see as legitimate protests," he said.
Maliki is far from the only senior Shi'ite figure who will be seeking more authority after the Mosul offensive. The war on Islamic State has increased the influence of Iranian-backed Shi'ite paramilitary groups which helped defend Baghdad after Mosul fell and fought to recapture territory.
The largest militia is the Badr Organisation, whose leader Hadi al-Amiri "is seen by majority of the Shi’ite population as the leader of the war against Islamic State in Iraq," said analyst Bahadli. "He will definitely win most of the credit of the victory rather than anyone else within the Shi’ite governing establishment."
Were Amiri to take on a higher profile political role, that would probably be even more alarming to Sunnis than a Maliki comeback. Sunnis accuse the Shi'ite militia of carrying out abuses in regions taken back from Islamic State.
Two prominent Sunni MPs said they would not vote for Amiri, asking not to be identified so as not to exacerbate tension.

DIYARBAKIR, Turkey Kurdish militants claimed responsibility for the assassination of two officials in Turkey's southeast and the country's prime minister said the insurgency had entered a new "heinous" phase in targeting the AK Party founded by President Tayyip Erdogan.
The Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) said it had shot dead Deryan Aktert, AKP head in the city of Diyarbakir's Dicle district, in his office on Monday for his cooperation with the state in fighting the PKK, an organization listed as a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.
On Sunday, assailants killed Aydin Mustu, the AK Party's  deputy leader in the Ozalp district of Van, a city 350 km (215 miles) east of Diyarbakir.
"The attacks on AK Party officials show that the terrorist organization has entered a new period of heinous attacks. They are enacting new orders to stage suicide attacks, assassinations against ruling party officials," Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told his party in parliament on Tuesday.
Erdogan, also facing spillover of Islamic State attacks from Syria and the aftermath of an attempted military coup in July, has vowed to destroy the PKK following collapse of a ceasefire last year. In recent months, a huge army operation has forced PKK rebels from cities where the fighters had set up barricades and taken control of streets.
"We will continue our operations until our citizens no longer carry any security fear," Yildirim said, referring to Turkey's three-pronged effort to root out PKK militants, coup plotters and Islamic State along its border in Syria.
Over 40,000 people have been killed since 1984 in a PKK campaign for more political and cultural autonomy for mainly Kurdish areas in the southeast. Turkey fears the creation of a breakaway Kurdish state.
Suspected PKK militants set off a truck bomb, killing 15 people at a military checkpoint in Hakkari province on Sunday, officials said.
Police in Diyarbakir said they had also detained 55 officials from the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and its sister Democratic Regions Party (DBP) on Tuesday in a counter-terrorism investigation.

ISTANBUL A Turkish prosecutor on Tuesday ordered the detention of 125 police officers in the investigation of a religious movement the government blames for an unsuccessful military coup, the state-run Anadolu Agency reported.
It was the second wave of arrests since Oct. 7 to target suspected coup plotters in the police force.
President Tayyip Erdogan accuses his former ally, the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, of masterminding the July 15 uprising that killed 240 people, including civilians protesting the coup attempt. Gulen, who resides in Pennsylvania, denies involvement.
The ruling AK Party, founded by Erdogan, will not harbor members of the Gulen network that Ankara lists as a terrorist organization, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said in parliament.
"AK Party will not shelter any traitor or terrorist," he said. "We are engaged in the same struggle (against Gulen's network) within the AK Party as we are in Turkey, generally."
No high-ranking AKP members have faced charges in the post-coup crackdown, which has included the arrests of 32,000 people and purge of some 100,000 military officers, police, teachers, judges, prosecutors and others from state jobs.
Parliament on Tuesday will vote to extend the state of emergency, introduced in July for three months, until January.
The vote is a formality as the AKP commands a large majority of parliamentary seats and the nationalist opposition has already pledged to back the move.
Yildirim acknowledged that a small number of mistakes might occur during the crackdown but said the government will not allow "unjust treatment" of citizens.
In Tuesday's operation, authorities conducted raids in Istanbul, and among the police officers being sought were 30 deputy police chiefs, Anadolu said. No one was immediately available at the prosecutor's office to comment on the warrants.
The Istanbul prosecutor said the officers were suspects because they allegedly used a little-known smartphone messaging app called ByLock, Dogan reported.
The state intelligence agency identified at least 56,000 operatives after it cracked ByLock, which Gulen's followers began using in 2014, officials said in August.
Gulen, 75, has led a decades-old religious movement whose members sought jobs in the security forces and civil service to expand his clout, authorities say. He fled Turkey in 1999 to avoid trial on suspicion of anti-secular comments.
Gulen's conservative network supported Erdogan, who has roots in an Islamist political movement, during the first half of his rule but the two men fell out over disagreements in foreign and domestic policy and revelations about a corruption investigation that targeted Erdogan's inner circle.

ADDIS ABABA A senior Ethiopian opposition figure said on Tuesday that visiting German Chancellor Angela Merkel should press Ethiopia's government to launch a national dialogue and release political prisoners.
"The message she should be delivering to the leadership here is that killings cannot solve the problem, and that political prisoners should be released and a national dialogue launched," Merera Gudina, chairman of the Oromo Federalist Congress, which is from a region where protests have raged, told Reuters.
The government denies it has any political prisoners, saying any politicians it has arrested have broken the law. It also says it plans to offer more space to the opposition with proposed changes to the electoral law.


STRASBOURG, France French President Francois Hollande said on Tuesday it was vital to continue talking to Russia despite major differences with Moscow on Syria, but there was no point discussing unless talks were "frank and firm".
"With Russia, France has a major disagreement on Syria and the Russia veto on the French resolution at the U.N. Security Council has prevented the cessation of bombings and enablement of a truce," Hollande said in a speech at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg.
"I consider it is necessary to have dialogue with Russia, but it must be firm and frank otherwise it has no place and it is a charade. I'm ready to meet President Putin if we can make progress on peace."

GENEVA A Chinese academic, jailed for life two years ago for campaigning for the rights of the Muslim Uighur people, has won a prestigious annual human rights award, organizers said on Tuesday.
Ilham Tohti, who is an ethnic Uighur, was selected from three finalists for the Martin Ennals Award, whose jury is composed of 10 activist groups, including Amnesty International, where Ennals was an early secretary-general.
"A renowned Uighur intellectual in China, Ilham Tohti has worked for two decades to foster dialogue and understanding between Uighurs and Han Chinese," the jury said.
"He has rejected separatism and violence, and sought reconciliation based on a respect for Uighur culture, which has been subject to religious, cultural and political repression in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region."
Tohti is China's most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighur people, a Turkic-speaking people.
Many resent restrictions on their culture and religion, and complain they are denied economic opportunities amid an influx of majority Han Chinese into Xinjiang.
Rights advocates said at the time of his sentencing after a two-day trial on separatism charges in September 2014 that it sent a clear signal the government was determined to suppress dissent.
In Beijing, the government dismissed the award, saying Tohti's "crimes are clear".
"In the classroom, Ilham Tohti openly made heroes of terrorist extremists that conducted violent terror attacks. He also used his position as a lecturer to entice and coerce some people to form a group to promote and participate in East Turkestan separatist forces' activities," Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a media briefing.
"Ilham Tohti has nothing to do with human rights," he said.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, the main Uighur exile group, called the award a "huge encouragement".
"It is also a warning to the Chinese government that attacking a scholar who promotes universal values is absolutely mistaken and creates hate and conflict," he said in an email message.
Other finalists were Syrian human rights lawyer Razan Zaitouneh and the so-called Zone 9 Bloggers of Ethiopia. The award's first recipient in 1994 was Chinese dissident Harry Wu.

ABUJA Senior Nigerian judges arrested as part of a corruption investigation have been released, the head of the country's bar association and a security agency official said on Tuesday.
The Department of State Services (DSS), the country's security agency, on Saturday said it seized $800,000 in cash found during raids targeting judges from the supreme, appeal and high courts.
Abubakar Mahmoud, who heads the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), on Tuesday said all of the judges held had been released, although he did not confirm the number or when they were freed.
A DSS official, who did not want to be named, said seven judges were released on bail on Sunday and reported to the security agency on Monday.
"I cannot say when they will be arraigned in court but as soon as we are done with investigations, we will send the files to the attorney general's office which will advise accordingly and act," said the official.
The judiciary has been the subject of longstanding corruption allegations but the nature of the raids has been criticized as being unconstitutional, with the NBA accusing the DSS of a "Gestapo-style operation".
President Muhammadu Buhari, a former military ruler, has pledged to crack down on corruption since taking office last year but critics say he is conducting a witch-hunt against his political opponents.
His spokesman said the raids were part of an anti-corruption drive and were not an attack on the judiciary.

MADRID Spain's King Felipe will meet leaders of all the main political parties Oct. 24 and 25 in the latest attempt to pick a candidate to form a government after almost 10 months of political stalemate following two inconclusive elections.
Under Spanish law, the king acts as a formal broker between political parties after elections in December and June which gave no single leader a clear majority.
After the last consultation following the June election, acting Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy was tasked with finding parliamentary support to form a government, but lost two confidence votes in his bid for a second term.
The resignation this month of Socialist party head, Pedro Sanchez, who blocked Rajoy's reelection in previous votes, may prompt the traditional left-wing opposition to abstain in a confidence vote avoiding the need for a third election.

HANOI Vietnamese police have detained a prominent blogger for posting anti-state reports, including one about civilians dying in police custody, which they said undermined trust in the ruling Communist Party.
Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh, 37, known as "Me Nam" (Mother Mushroom), was held on Monday in her home city of Nha Trang in the central province of Khanh Hoa for running "propaganda" against the state, the provincial police said on Tuesday in a statement posted on their website.
Despite sweeping reforms in Vietnam's economy and increasing openness toward social change, including gay, lesbian and transgender rights, the Communist Party retains tight media censorship and zero tolerance for criticism.
The statement said Quynh posted a report compiling 31 cases in which civilians had died in police custody, which showed "hostility towards the police force".
"We're not really surprised by this arrest. We knew this day would come," Quynh's mother, Nguyen Thi Tuyet Lan, told Reuters. "This is revenge against my daughter."
In March 2009, Quynh spent nine days in police detention for receiving funds from Viet Tan, a California-based activist group, to print T-shirts carrying slogans against a major bauxite project in the Central Highlands, police said.
The EU delegation in Vietnam called on Hanoi to release Quynh, saying "this arrest goes against the country's international and domestic human rights obligations".
The EU was criticized for refusing to carry out a human rights impact assessment before it concluded a free trade agreement with Vietnam last year.
Last week, Hanoi declared Viet Tan "a terrorist organization" and warned that any Vietnamese found to be involved with the group would be regarded as co-conspirators and punished.
Quynh had also spoken out against a subsidiary of Taiwan's Formosa Plastics Corp that caused one of Vietnam's biggest environmental disasters in April.
State-run media has reported that a provincial court has rejected hundreds of lawsuits submitted by fishermen seeking to sue the subsidiary.
Vietnam has been accused of using vague laws to stifle bloggers and activists who are getting more exposure from the proliferation of social media in Vietnam, which has one of Asia's highest concentrations of Web users.
The Southeast Asian nation was holding at least 130 political prisoners at the end of last year, according to the New York-based Human Rights Watch.

ANKARA A proposal by Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee in the U.S. presidential election, to arm Kurds fighting Islamic State in Syria is "unethical" and not befitting a NATO ally, Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Tuesday.
Clinton said at a debate on Sunday she would consider giving equipment to U.S.-backed Kurdish militias, despite concerns from "some circles," referring to NATO member Turkey, which considers the main Syrian Kurdish milita "terrorists."
Turkey could take action east of the Euphrates River in Syria if it sees "terrorist activities" there, Yildirim also told party members in parliament. Turkish forces entered north Syria in August to push Islamic State from its border and to curb territorial gains by Syrian Kurds.

BEIJING Police in the Chinese capital on Tuesday blocked off streets near a major military building, as hundreds of people wearing green camouflage uniforms chanted and waved national flags to protest against the loss of their posts.
China last year announced it would cut troop levels by 300,000, targeting the bulk of the reductions by the end of 2017, as it seeks to spend more money on high-tech weapons for its navy and air force.
MORE FROM REUTERS:
Pentagon hints at possible retaliation after Yemen missile fire
Obama to consider 'proportional' response to Russia hacking
Why people wait more than a year to see a doctor in Puerto Rico
Tens of thousands of protests take place in China every year, triggered by grievances over corruption, pollution, illegal land grabs and other factors, unnerving the stability-obsessed ruling Communist Party.
On Tuesday, buses stretched down a block of Chang'an Avenue, Beijing's main thoroughfare, with police blocking the gaps between vehicles to obstruct views of the tightly-packed demonstrators.
The voices of the protesters in front of the military's Bayi Building rose above the traffic as they chanted songs, while some waved Chinese flags and banners protesting against their treatment after losing their positions in the military.
"Our rights and benefits to be transferred from military posts to suitable civilian work have been violated," read the inscription on one banner.
Police denied Reuters access to the demonstration site, while China's defense ministry did not immediately respond to emailed questions.
Armed police vehicles also patrolled the area, and individuals who appeared to be plainclothes police carried walkie-talkies and headsets.
China's defense minister, Chang Wanquan, is to host a banquet at the Bayi Building on Tuesday evening for participants of the Xiangshan Forum, which Beijing styles as its answer to the annual Shangri-La Dialogue security forum in Singapore.
China has the world's largest military and the government of President Xi Jinping is pumping billions of dollars into a modernization program, including aircraft carriers, anti-satellite missiles and stealth jets.
Protests by demobilized soldiers are not uncommon, and previously some who had fought against Vietnam in 1979 have demonstrated in complaint against problems over their pensions.
Many people try to use "petitions" to bypass the legal system and bring complaints directly to the attention of government officials, a process that dates back to imperial times, though some cases do end up in court.
Few cases ever get resolved, however, and petitioners can stage noisy protests out of frustration.
 
BERLIN German federal police re-opened a train station in the town of Rastatt in south-west Germany on Tuesday after finding nothing suspicious following a bomb threat.
Police had evacuated and sealed off the train station in Rastatt, south of Karlsruhe, after receiving the threat at around 9.15 local time (3.15 a.m. ET), a spokesman said. Sniffer dogs and explosive experts were involved in the search.
Germany is on a heightened state of alert after a Syrian refugee was arrested on Monday after a weekend manhunt on suspicion of planning an Islamist bomb attack.

ANKARA Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim on Tuesday vowed to root out any "terrorists" within the governing party with connections to a religious movement he blames for an unsuccessful military coup.
Authorities will go after AK Party members just as they are executing operations against the network throughout the country, Yildirim told members of his party in parliament.
Separately, Yildirim also said that Kurdish militants were following through on orders to attack AKP officials in suicide bombings and assassinations. Two AKP district officials were gunned down since Sunday in Turkey's mainly Kurdish southeast.

BRUSSELS Talks over Belgium's budget collapsed early on Tuesday, forcing Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel to postpone his planned annual address before parliament and straining his center-right coalition.
The talks failed when one of four parties in Michel's government, the Flemish Christian Democrats, demanded the introduction of a capital gains tax which the three other parties in the government opposed.
The federal government had penciled in budget savings in excess of 3 billion euros ($3.36 billion) mainly by cutting back on pension and healthcare spending.
The Christian Democrats are under pressure from their own trade union to steer a more left wing course and introduce taxes seen as targeting the rich. Other parties fear a capital gains tax may harm investment.
Belgium's federal government, which has for years been trying to produce a balanced budget, is expected to run a deficit of about 2.8 percent this year, just below the European Commission's upper limit of 3 percent.
The Belgian difficulties highlight the problems in other euro zone countries where governments have to balance between the European Commission's budget rigor and the feedback from  voters increasingly exasperated by years of austerity measures.
In late September, tens of thousands of Belgian workers marched through Brussels to protest against Michel's government.
In August, the Commission warned both Spain and Portugal to take "effective action" to lower their deficits, though it stopped short of handing out a budget fine.
Spain's case is more complicated than Portugal's, as it is struggling to form a government after two inconclusive national elections in December and June.
While worries about Belgium's high sovereign debt, above its annual economic output, has in the past sent its bond yields soaring, the low interest rate environment has allowed the country to receive, rather than pay, interest on bonds of up to eight years.

PARIS Russian President Vladimir Putin still wants to come to Paris next week to discuss the tough issues, his country's ambassador to France said on Tuesday as relations between the two countries deteriorate over the Syrian war.
French officials are grappling for ways to put new pressure on Russia after Moscow vetoed a French-drafted United Nations Security Council resolution on Syria. Their growing anger at events in the rebel-held areas of Aleppo have led them to reconsider whether to host Putin on Oct. 19.
"Of course he still wants to come to Paris," Alexander Orlov told Europe 1 radio. "I think dialogue needs to continue and we are here to talk especially in difficult moments.
"You're elected president precisely to find solutions to difficult problems. Vladimir Putin will come to discuss the subjects that cause anger."
President Francois Hollande said at the weekend he was unsure whether it was useful or necessary to see Putin. The Russian leader was scheduled to come to Paris to inaugurate a new Russian Orthodox cathedral and visit a Russian art exhibition in the French capital.
Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said on Monday there would be no point meeting Putin just for pleasantries, although he indicated the two leaders may meet in Berlin on the same day for a summit to discuss the crisis in Ukraine.

BEIJING China rebuked New Zealand's defense minister at the opening of a high-profile security forum in Beijing on Tuesday, criticizing his stance on tension in the disputed South China Sea, saying countries "not involved" should not interfere.
China claims almost the entire South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion worth of trade passes each year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims.
An international tribunal in the Hague ruled in July that China had no historic title over the waters and had breached the Philippines' sovereign rights there. That decision infuriated Beijing, which dismissed the court's authority.
We "hope that countries who are not involved in the disputes respect the countries who are having the disputes to ... work among themselves," Fu Ying, chairwoman of China's foreign affairs committee for parliament, said at the Xiangshan Forum, which China styles as its answer to the annual Shangri-La Dialogue security forum in Singapore.
"Outside involvement, I think the developments have shown, interferences, can only complicate the differences and sometimes even add to the tension," said Fu, a former deputy foreign minister who was chairing the session.
Fu's comments came in response to remarks by New Zealand Defence Minister Gerry Brownlee about his country's concerns over the South China Sea.
"We oppose actions that undermine peace and erode trust and would like to see all parties actively take steps to reduce those tensions," Brownlee said.
"As a small maritime trading nation, international law and, in particular, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, is important for New Zealand. We support the arbitral process and believe that countries have the right to seek that international resolution," he said.
This is not the first time China has clashed with New Zealand over the dispute.
In February, New Zealand urged Chinese restraint after Beijing's apparent deployment of an advanced missile system on a South China Sea island, while Beijing said New Zealand's proposal was "unconstructive".
Brownlee on Tuesday honed in on the issue of China's building of artificial islands in the territory, including new airstrips, which has rattled nerves around the region.
"A particular cause of ... heightened tension has been the reclamation and construction activity and deployment of military assets in disputed areas," he said.
China says much of the building and reclamation work it has been doing in the South China Sea is to benefit the international community, including improving civilian maritime navigation.
After Fu's response, Brownlee told Reuters it was reasonable for New Zealand to express its concerns, which represent smaller countries as well, as all parties are able to have a say.
Since the ruling, China and members of the Association of Southeast Asia Nations (ASEAN) have been trying to reduce tension in the region.
Chinese Defence Minister Chang Wanquan told the forum that China and ASEAN would hold maritime drills next year, though he gave no details, adding China was willing to "manage disputes".
A Malaysian general told Reuters on the sidelines of the forum that China had been exercising restraint, with no increase in Chinese military activity in the parts of the South China Sea Malaysia claims.
"In fact we are establishing military cooperation with China to build up confidence so that we understand one another better," said Malaysia Armed Forces chief Zulkefli Mohd Zin.

BANGKOK A Thai court jailed a firebrand leader of the "red shirt" opposition group on Tuesday, ruling that he had violated bail conditions by using "harsh words against others" while talking politics on TV.
Jatuporn Prompan is a key leader of the red shirts loyal to ousted former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and his sister, former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, whose governments were ousted in military coups in 2006 and 2014 respectively.
Thailand has been ruled since May 2014 by a junta which has moved to suppress dissent and detained critics, many of them red shirt sympathizers.
Jatuporn, along with 18 others, was charged in 2010 with terrorism. A court granted him bail on the condition that he did not insult or defame others or stoke unrest.
On Tuesday, a Bangkok criminal court ordered Jatuporn's bail be revoked, while throwing out cases against four other leaders.
"The court sees from Jatuporn's recent behavior while expressing his opinion that he has used harsh words against others," a judge said.
"This violates the conditions previously set out by the court for bail."
Jatuporn was a leader during 2010 street protests in which red shirt supporters occupied a Bangkok shopping district for nearly two months, calling for then-Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva to resign.
The protests ended in a bloody confrontation with the military in which more than 90 people were killed, most of them civilians.
Jatuporn was taken to the high-security Bangkok Remand Prison following the ruling.
Nattawut Saikua, another leader of the red shirt group, formally known as the United Front for Democracy against Dictatorship, told reporters the group would continue to express opinions on the government, but would be more careful.
"Although not a loss of life, it's a loss of freedom of speech for Jatuporn," said Nattawut.
Thailand has been broadly divided for more than a decade between opponents and supporters of Thaksin who lives in self-imposed exile in Dubai to avoid a 2008 jail sentence for corruption.

NAIROBI A ruling party official and two others were killed in a bar in southern Burundi, an official said on Tuesday, as the toll from 18 months of political violence grows.
Unidentified gunmen attacked the bar in Saga village, Rumonge province, at around 8:30 p.m. on Monday evening, regional official Joachim Manirakiza told Reuters.
Manirakiza said a school principal was among the victims.
The African country has been gripped by political strife and conflict since President Pierre Nkurunziza's sought and won a third term in 2015, which opponents said violated the constitution and terms of a peace deal that ended civil war in 2005.
At least three rebel groups have taken up arms against Nkurunziza and hundreds have been killed, including opposition figures and government officials, in tit-for-tat violence.
The U.N. Human Rights Council agreed last week to set up a commission of inquiry to identify perpetrators of killings and torture in Burundi and to ensure they are brought to justice. Burundi rejected the move.
At least 564 killings have been documented by the United Nations in Burundi since the unrest broke out.

BANGKOK Thais on Tuesday wore pink for 88-year-old King Bhumibol Adulyadej, a color they believe will help improve the monarch's health, two days after the palace said he was in an unstable condition.
King Bhumibol, the world's longest reigning monarch, is widely revered in Thailand. During his seven decades on the throne the king, who is also seen as a unifying force for the country, has intervened when events threatened to plunge Thailand into crisis.
The palace said on Sunday the king's health was "not stable" following hemodialysis treatment in hospital, a process to purify the blood. It said a ventilator was deployed after the monarch's blood pressure dropped.
It is unusual for the palace to state that the king's health is not stable. Statements on the king's are usually issued after the monarch's condition shows improvement.
Many Thais are highly superstitious and some believe brightly colored clothes can attract good luck.
Messages shared on social media since the palace statement have urged Thais to wear pink, a color which first became important a few years ago when royal astrologers said it was good for the king and would promote wellbeing. Since then, the king has sometimes been seen in public wearing pink.
In Bangkok's Silom district, Chay Chinapairot, 46, a government employee, was among those wearing pink.
"I'm very concerned. I might wear pink every day," he said.
One Facebook page called 'We Love Thai King', which has more than 2.5 million members, used the social media hashtag #wishthathismajestyrecoverssoon in the Thai language.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha and members of his cabinet were expected to sign a get-well book for the king at Bangkok's Grand Palace on Tuesday. Wat Pathum Wanaram, a temple in the city's main shopping district, said monks would chant prayers for the king.
Well-wishers on Tuesday flocked to Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok where the king has spent much of the past year.
News about the king's health is closely monitored and the wording of palace statements on the king's health is intensely scrutinized.
Strict laws protecting the royal family suppresses any public discussion of the king's health.


SYDNEY Same-sex marriage will likely be delayed for at least three years in Australia after the opposition Labor party said on Tuesday it would not support a national vote, dealing another potential blow to Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
Australia's center-right coalition government introduced legislation to parliament last month to hold a public vote in February 2017 on whether to legalize same-sex unions.
The bill required the support of some opposition lawmakers because Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's Liberal-National coalition has only a one-vote majority in the lower house of parliament and does not have a majority in the upper house.
The rejection is a blow to Turnbull, who has seen his popularity wane amid frustration that he has failed to live up to his progressive reputation.
Same-sex marriage is supported by 61 percent of Australians, a Gallop poll in August found, and Turnbull's inability to deliver the legislation could further damage his support.
Several independent MPs had already ruled out supporting the national plebiscite on same-sex marriage. The rejection by the center-left Labor party, which wants same-sex marriages legalized by parliament, ended any hope the plebiscite bill could pass.
"Why should gay Australians be subjected to a different law-making process than any other Australians?" said Labor leader Bill Shorten.
"Why should a couple in a committed relationship have to knock on the doors of 15 million of their fellow Australians and see if they agree with it? The easiest way is the way which this parliament has done for a hundred years - legislate."
Advocates of same-sex marriage are also concerned public debate around the vote would prove harmful, sparking homophobic rhetoric against same-sex unions.
Turnbull has said that, should the legislation proposing a national vote be rejected, the issue of same-sex marriage would not be reintroduced into parliament until after the next election, which is due in or before November 2019.
Waning political support threatens Turnbull's position, analysts have said, in a country that has seen five prime ministers in nine years.
On a two-party preferred basis - where votes for minor parties are redistributed to the two main blocs - the government trails Labor by a margin of 52-48, a Newspoll by The Australian newspaper on Monday showed. Dissatisfaction with Turnbull's government is at an all-time high of 56 percent.
"If things don't turn around by this time next year, and Turnbull's poll numbers haven't improved, he will find himself under pressure from within his own party," said Haydon Manning, an associate professor in political science at Flinders University in Adelaide.

BRASILIA Brazil's lower house of Congress approved a landmark proposal to cap public spending in a first-round vote on Monday, a major victory for President Michel Temer's efforts to regain market confidence and pull the economy out of its worst recession ever.
After nine hours, lawmakers approved the measure 366-111, well above the 308 votes or three-fifths majority needed for passage. The constitutional amendment that limits spending growth to inflation still needs another super-majority vote in the lower house and two in the Senate for final approval.
The overwhelming support for the proposal will likely add momentum to Temer's austerity agenda that aims to close a budget deficit on track to surpass 10 percent of the gross domestic product this year.
The vote was Temer's biggest victory in Congress since he took the presidency in May amid a political crisis that toppled his predecessor and former running mate Dilma Rousseff.
"This is a clear sign of Congress' commitment to rebalance the fiscal account and rescue fiscal responsibility," Temer's spokesman, Alexandre Parola, told reporters soon after the tense vote, in which opposing lawmakers exchanged insults and threats.
The lower house rejected all eight opposition proposals to change the amendment, keeping the test intact.
An experienced former lawmaker, Temer has blamed Rousseff for the years of overspending that eroded the fiscal accounts and cost Brazil its coveted investment-grade rating last year.
Temer has promised to shore up the public accounts to breathe new life into the $2 trillion economy now in its second year of a recession that has cost 12 million Brazilian jobs.
Brazil's stocks, bonds and currency have rallied this year on expectations that Temer would be able to rebalance the country's dire finances.
Still, most analysts agree that Temer needs to raise taxes  and push ahead with other unpopular economic reforms to stave off a full blown fiscal crisis.
His administration has vowed to submit in October an amendment to reduce the expensive benefits in one of the world's most generous pension systems.

CONTROVERSIAL CAP
Although the spending cap would mark a sea change for a country used to spending lavishly on public servants and industrial incentives, it has also raised fears of cuts to spending on health, education and corruption investigations.
The opposition and powerful civil servant unions have called to strike down the measure that would impose wage freezes and other penalties on branches of the federal government that breach the spending ceiling.
The office of Brazil's top prosecutor urged Congress on Friday to shelve the measure that it says could jeopardize funding to fight corruption.
Despite the controversy, members of the government's broad coalition of nearly two dozen parties are confident the proposal will be approved by both houses by the end of the year.
"There will be a lot of noise from the opposition and interest groups, but the proposal will get through," said congressman Danilo Forte of the Brazilian Socialist Party (PSB).
The second-round vote is expected to take place on Oct. 24, according to lawmakers and congressional aides.

BANGKOK Police in Thailand on Tuesday said they have increased security at major landmarks in the capital Bangkok, at airports and in surrounding provinces following reports of bomb plots just weeks after deadly attacks rocked the country's south.
An armed group was plotting car bomb attacks in a province near Bangkok, Thailand's national security head said.
"The deputy prime minister instructed security agencies closely track and monitor anything unusual including things used to prepare bombs and cars," Thawip Netniyom, chief of Thailand's National Security Council, told reporters.
"Why target Bangkok? They probably want to make an impact," he said, without giving details on which groups could be behind the plot.
Popular tourist destination Thailand has seen a series of bomb attacks in the country's south over the past few weeks, including a wave of bombs in tourist towns between Aug. 11-12 that killed four Thai people and injured dozens, including foreigners.
Police have linked the attacks to Muslim separatists operating in Thailand's far south.
Security chief Thawip said he was not sure whether the planned car bombs and the August attacks were related.
Thailand's tourism industry, which accounts for 10 percent of gross domestic product, has weathered more than a decade of unrest including two military coups and the recent bombings.
Britain's Foreign Office advised travelers to exercise caution following the August bombings.
"You should exercise caution, particularly in public places ... Further incidents are possible in these and other areas of Thailand," the Foreign Office said.
In August 2015, a bomb ripped through a religious shrine in Bangkok killing 20 people, most of them tourists. But the attack failed to dent tourist arrivals to any discernable degree.
Two ethnic Uighur Muslims from China are on trial in Thailand accused of carrying out the attack.
Analysts and diplomats suspected the attack was linked to Uighur sympathizers angered by Thailand's deportation of more than 100 Uighurs to China the previous month.
Bangkok is currently playing host to a regional meeting attended by some world and business leaders.
Police said they were on high alert.
"I have ordered all police under my supervision in the area around Bangkok to monitor news, investigate and gather intelligence on groups who could come in and cause trouble," said Police Lieutenant General Charnthep Sesawet, acting chief of Provincial Police Region 1, which oversees areas around the capital.



UNITED NATIONS A pledge by South Sudan's government to allow the deployment of more U.N. peacekeepers and to improve access for U.N. troops already on the ground in a bid to avoid an arms embargo is yet to translate into action, U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon said on Monday.
President Salva Kiir agreed during a U.N. Security Council visit to South Sudan last month to accept 4,000 extra peacekeepers and to allow some 12,000 peacekeepers already on the ground to move around freely in order to protect civilians.
In an August resolution - after heavy fighting in July in the capital, Juba - the 15-member council had threatened to consider a possible arms embargo within five days of a report by Ban that Kiir's government was not fulfilling both measures.
In a letter to the council on Monday, seen by Reuters, Ban said "while the public commitments and relative improvements ... are a welcome sign, it will take some time to evaluate whether these commitments translate into improved freedom of movement on the ground or amount to business as usual."
It was not immediately clear if Ban's letter would trigger a consideration by the council of an arms embargo on South Sudan.
Political rivalry between Kiir, an ethnic Dinka, and his former deputy Riek Machar, a Nuer, sparked a civil war in 2013  that has often followed ethnic lines. The pair signed a shaky peace deal a year ago, but fighting has continued and Machar fled the country after the July violence. He is now in Khartoum.
South Sudan gained independence from Sudan in 2011.
Ban said that, while the deployment of more peacekeepers and the improvement of access for U.N. troops and aid workers already on the ground "would help alleviate some of the suffering of the people of South Sudan, they will not resolve the conflict."
He said the war was "a direct result of serious shortcomings in governance and the instrumentalization of ethnicity to further political objectives" and expressed concern about a recent call to arms by Machar.
Ban said Ethiopia, Kenya and Rwanda had agreed to provide peacekeepers for the 4,000-strong regional protection force, charged with enforcing peace in Juba and protecting the airport and other key facilities, but that the South Sudanese government had not yet given its approval.
Ban said a note verbale had been sent to the South Sudanese mission to the United Nations in New York, naming the troop-contributing countries and stating that, if a response was not received from Kiir's government by Sept. 26, the United Nations would begin preparing the deployment.
However, the South Sudanese government said it never received the note verbale from its mission and that "the lack of a response could therefore not be considered as consenting to the deployment of the aforementioned troops."

DAKAR A doctor in Gabon who helped treat and catalog injuries inflicted on protesters during the violent aftermath of a disputed August election has been detained for four days, a relative and rights activists said on Monday.
Sylvie Nkoghe-Mbot was arrested on Thursday at a Libreville hospital where she was visiting victims wounded last month during a rare bout of violence in the Central African country after the re-election of President Ali Bongo, her brother told Reuters.
"We still have not been told why she was detained and we haven't been able to communicate with her," said Rene Nkoghe, reached by telephone. "Everytime we ask questions the answer is no," he added.
The announcement of Bongo's narrow victory on Aug. 31 sparked immediate allegations of fraud from the opposition, led by Jean Ping, and mass protests during which the Parliament building was badly burned.
Activists say Nkoghe-Mbot, also a union leader for medical workers, filed a "preliminary report" on Sept. 8 documenting the injuries of victims inflicted by security forces.
A rights activist who read it said she reported six deaths and 30 injuries, some from bullets, as well as allegations of torture. The government has claimed just three people were killed, including one police officer.
The government has denied any wrongdoing in the polls and the country's highest court rejected the opposition's appeal for a recount on Sept. 23 and calm has since prevailed.
However, the opposition say that an unspecified number of their members remain in detention.

JOHANNESBURG South African President Jacob Zuma, under scrutiny for his friendship with a wealthy business family, has asked an anti-corruption watchdog not to report her findings until he has had a chance to question other witnesses, his office said on Monday.
Public Protector Thuli Madonsela is due to release her findings by Friday, the day before her seven-year term comes to an end. She questioned Zuma for four hours last Thursday over allegations his business friends, the Gupta family, had influenced political appointments.
Despite denials by Zuma and the Guptas, the affair has damaged the president, who was separately forced to repay part of the cost of a lavish upgrade to his private residence as a result of an investigation by Madonsela.
The presidency said in a statement that Zuma had asked  Madonsela's office to confirm by Tuesday that it would not conclude the current investigation and issue any report until he was given a chance to question the witnesses involved.
"The President would want to exercise his right to question some of the witnesses before responding to the written questions and adducing evidence," it said, adding that Zuma wanted to be assisted by a legal representative.
Zuma will testify after speaking to witnesses and reviewing any evidence that implicated him in the matter, the presidency added.
The Public Protector's office said in a statement that Zuma was given copies of the evidence implicating him on Oct. 1 and that a letter has been prepared to advise the president to submit any questions to be put to witnesses on his behalf.
Madonsela's office also queried why Zuma had still not testified.
"It is of concern to the Public Protector that the President has on two occasions undertaken to answer questions and when the time rose, he changed his mind," the statement said.
"She ... believes it is in the interest of public trust that the matter be concluded expeditiously."
The anti-corruption office said Zuma had been free to provide his evidence since March 22.
Madonsela spoke to Zuma and his lawyers behind closed doors last week about the allegations that the Guptas had played a role in selecting cabinet members and used their relationship with the president to gain favor in terms of government tenders, payments and licenses.
Her office said that for most of the four hours of questioning, the president's lawyers argued that the probe should be deferred to her successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane.
The Guptas, who moved to South Africa from India after apartheid fell in 1994, run businesses ranging from uranium and coal mining to media and information technology.

JOHANNESBURG South African police clashed with student protesters demanding free education on Monday at the University of the Witwatersand (Wits) which had reopened after demonstrations forced its closure last week.
Demonstrators hurled rocks at shield-wielding private security guards while police fired rubber bullets and teargas to disperse the crowd at the Wits Johannesburg campus.
Protesting students took to the streets of Braamfontein district, where the university is located, police said. Television footage showed several people trying to topple a bus in downtown Johannesburg and later set it on fire
Weeks of countrywide protests over the cost of university education, which is prohibitive for many black students, have highlighted frustration at enduring inequalities more than two decades after the end of apartheid.
The protests came after President Jacob Zuma's government said it would continue subsidizing university costs for the poorest students but could not afford free education for all.
Acting police Commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane said officers fired teargas in retaliation after students disrupted classes at Wits by chasing students who showed up for lessons out of the class with sticks.
"The police came under constant attacks by groups of students who pelted them with rocks," he said, adding that several students had been arrested at various universities.
Phahlane said that there were scuffles between students and police at the University of the Free State in Bloemfontein, 400 km (240 miles) south of Johannesburg.
A Wits university spokeswoman earlier said the university had reopened. In a subsequent statement, Wits however said lectures had been disrupted by large groups of protesters.
"We urge students and staff to return to classes this week, even if disruptions occur," it said.
"The protests are continuing because students' demands have not been met. There hasn't been sufficient engagement from the university," a member of the Wits Student Representative Council, Palomino Jama, told Reuters.
Universities suspended classes last week after clashes in which police fired stun grenades, rubber bullets and tear gas at stone-throwing students at Wits.
Some students are demanding all universities be shut down until the government provides free education.
Statistics South Africa data shows that university fees have soared by 80 percent since 2008, leading to the initial batch of protests last year that forced Zuma to scrap proposed increases for 2016.
But universities whose main source of income is fees say another price freeze next year would hurt their efforts to maintain academic standards.
The government, grappling with a budget deficit of nearly 4 percent of GDP, has capped 2017 fee increases for next year at 8 percent, but says education subsidies should not come at the expense of other sectors such as health and housing.

SANAA Yemen's Houthi movement launched a ballistic missile deep into Saudi Arabia and may have also fired on a U.S. warship, two days after an apparent Saudi-led air strike killed 140 mourners at a funeral attended by powerful tribal leaders.
Saturday's air strike ripped through a wake attended by some of the country's top political and security officials, outraging Yemeni society and potentially galvanizing powerful tribes to join the Houthis in opposing a Saudi-backed exiled government.
On Monday, a Saudi-led coalition waging war in Yemen said it had intercepted a missile fired by the Houthis at a military base in Taif in central Saudi Arabia, striking deeper then ever before in the latest in a series of more than a dozen missile attacks.
A missile was also fired at Marib in central Yemen, a base for pro-government militiamen and troops who have struggled to advance on the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa.
A U.S. military spokesman said two missiles were fired from Houthi-held territory at the USS Mason, a guided missile destroyer sailing north of the strategic Bab al-Mandab strait. Neither missile hit the ship.
The Houthis denied firing at the U.S. ship.
Riyadh is leading a coalition of Arab states which began launching air strikes in Yemen 18 months ago to restore to power ousted President Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi, who was driven from the capital two years ago by the Houthis.
The Houthis, fighters from a Shi'ite sect that ruled a thousand-year kingdom in northern Yemen until 1962, are allied to Hadi's predecessor Ali Abdullah Saleh. They have the support of many army units and control most of the north including the capital Sanaa.
The war has killed at least 10,000 people and brought parts of Yemen, by far the poorest country in the Arabian peninsula, to the brink of starvation. Both sides accuse the other of war crimes.
The Saudis say the Houthis are stooges of their enemy Iran. The Houthis say they have led a national revolt against a corrupt government, and the country is now being punished by its rich and aggressive Gulf Arab neighbors with U.S. political and military support.
Riyadh has denied responsibility for Saturday's air strike.
Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Monday Saudi Arabia should be held accountable for war crimes in Yemen.
"Not only Saudi Arabia, but also those who have supported the aggression by the Saudi-led coalition against Yemeni people should be held accountable for the war crimes perpetrated in Yemen over the past year and a half," Zarif was quoted as saying by Iranian state-funded Press TV on Monday in a letter to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.
Zarif also called on Ban to facilitate Iran sending a plane carrying humanitarian aides to Sanaa.
Saudi Arabia and its Gulf Arab allies have launched thousands of air strikes against the Houthis and have imposed a naval blockade that has restricted access to imports for a country that depends on buying food abroad to feed itself.
This month the Houthis launched a missile at a ship from the United Arab Emirates and at government positions on a island at the strategic 20 km (12 mile)-wide Bab al-Mandab strait, which controls the mouth of the Red Sea, on the main shipping route from the Indian Ocean to Europe through the Suez Canal.
Among the dead in the funeral bombing on Saturday were notables straddling the country's many political divides, threatening to harden the will of powerful armed tribes around the capital who may make common cause with the Houthis.
"Despite all the massacres that have happened in this war, attacking a funeral is unprecedented and crosses a major red line in Yemeni culture," said Farea al-Muslimi, an analyst at the Sanaa Centre for Strategic studies.
"The air strikes killed powerful people, and their tribes and families will be drawn closer to the Houthis as they all try to retaliate."

PARIS The United Nations' envoy for Yemen urged all sides on Monday not to thwart efforts to reach a peace deal.
"I call on all political leaders and their supporters to refrain from harming peace and security," Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed said after talks with French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault in Paris.
Yemen's Houthi movement launched a ballistic missile deep into Saudi Arabia and may have also fired on a U.S. warship, two days after an apparent Saudi-led air strike killed 140 mourners at a funeral attended by powerful tribal leaders.
"These attacks come at a time when important progress has been made in the peace process," Ahmed said.
He added that Saudi-led coalition should publish the results of the investigation into the attack very quickly and that perpetrators must be brought to justice as quickly as possible.
Ahmed had said on Friday after meeting with Houthi forces in Oman that he hoped to announce a ceasefire to the conflict in the next few days, but an apparent Saudi-led air strike that killed 140 Yemenis at the weekend has put that into question.
France, a close of ally of Saudi Arabia that has sold it weapons over the last year, has condemned the attack, saying efforts had to be renewed to ensure a peace deal was reached.
"We are encouraging the coalition to make the results of the investigation public as soon as they are available," Ayrault said, adding that fighting would not bring a solution in Yemen.

KINSHASA A Congolese opposition leader was arrested late on Sunday for his role in anti-government demonstrations last month in which more than 50 people died, the government said on Monday, leading to threats of more protests if he is not released.
Bruno Tshibala, the deputy secretary-general and spokesman for the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS), Democratic Republic of Congo's largest opposition party, was arrested Sunday night at Kinshasa airport as he prepared to board a flight for Brussels, the UDPS said in a statement.
Government spokesman Lambert Mende confirmed the arrest, saying Tshibala would be questioned by the attorney general's office over his role in the protests, including the deaths of a police officer who was burned alive and a young girl.
"He is among the people who organized the protests of (September) 19th and 20th," Mende told Reuters. "Tshibala signed a communique in which he congratulated the protesters."
Congo's attorney general has said he will punish those behind the demonstrations, which were protests against President Joseph Kabila's alleged attempts to retain power beyond the end of his final term in December.
The secretary general of the UDPS, Jean Marc Kabund, promised protests on Wednesday if Tshibala was not freed.
"If he is not liberated tomorrow, you can count on UDPS being in the streets the following day," he told Reuters.
Kabila, in office since 2001, is barred by constitutional term limits from standing for a third elected term. But the country's electoral commission says logistical and budgetary obstacles will prevent it from organizing a new presidential election before December 2018.

BERLIN Top European Union and NATO officials called on Monday for continued dialogue with Moscow, while maintaining pressure on Russia over its actions in Ukraine and its support for Syria's bombardment of civilians in Aleppo.
European Parliament President Martin Schulz told an event hosted by the German newspaper Passauer Neue Presse that the EU's sanctions against Moscow were linked to the Minsk peace agreement that was supposed to end the conflict in eastern Ukraine and could only be lifted when the conditions for their withdrawal had been met.
Schulz condemned in harsh terms Russia's actions in Ukraine and its support for right-wing nationalists in Europe. But he also said it was vital to maintain some kind of dialogue, given Russia's geographic proximity and the hope of promoting democracy in the longer term.
"I can't just wish Russia away. We should not declare Russia to be a pariah. Instead, we should tell Moscow, 'We condemn what you are doing wrong, but will keep the channel for dialogue open for when you're ready,'" Schulz told the event.
Western countries have been increasingly vocal in their condemnation of Moscow's support for the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. That condemnation has intensified since Russian and Syrian warplanes opened their biggest offensive of the five-year-old civil war against rebels holding parts of Aleppo.
Some European lawmakers have called for the EU to impose fresh sanctions against Russia for its role in the mounting civilian death toll in Syria.
France and the United States have also called for an investigation into war crimes they say have been committed by Syrian and Russian forces in eastern Aleppo.
For its part, Russia blames the Obama administration for what it calls a sharp deterioration in U.S.-Russia ties.
European Council President Donald Tusk told the event the situation in Europe was particularly dangerous for frontline eastern European states like his native Poland, Slovakia and the Baltic States.
Asked whether Europe could relax existing sanctions or impose fresh sanctions against Moscow for its military backing of Assad, Tusk told the same panel discussion that the only answer was to prolong the sanctions that were already in place.
He said the situation with Russia had grown worse since the EU last extended its sanctions in June, citing Russia's involvement in the bombing of Aleppo.
"It's obvious for me today, the only way is to prolong the sanctions against Russia," he said. "Otherwise it will be a clear capitulation."
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told the event NATO was continuing its largest buildup in eastern Europe since the end of the Cold War, but did not want to unleash a new Cold War.
"We don't want to increase our presence (further), but we'll continue to send a signal that our troops can be reinforced if needed," he said. "It's very important to avoid a new Cold War. We don't want a new arms race."

BEIRUT Islamic State on Monday confirmed the death of its propaganda chief, whom the Pentagon said was killed in a U.S.-led air strike in Syria's Raqqa province last month.
An statement posted online by the militant group paid tribute to Wa'il Adil Hasan Salman al-Fayad, also known as Abu Mohammed al-Furqan. The statement just referred to him by his alias.
It did not say when, where or how he had died.
The Pentagon said last month that a U.S.-led coalition air strike on Sept. 7 had killed al-Fayad.
It said he was minister of information, overseeing Islamic State's propaganda, and a prominent member of its Senior Shura Council, or leadership group.
IS's statement referred to al-Fayad as head of its media arm.
The air strike took place near Raqqa, IS's de facto capital in northern Syria, and targeted al-Fayad while he was on a motorcycle outside his house, the Pentagon said.
Islamic State controls large parts of Iraq and Syria and has broadcast its beheadings of journalists and aid workers over the past few years. The group has sympathizers in several countries who have carried out bombings and shootings of civilians.

SAO PAULO Corruption charges against former Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva piled up on Monday as prosecutors accused him and Marcelo Odebrecht, ex-CEO of engineering group Odebrecht SA, in an alleged bribery scheme related to contracts in Angola.
Lula already faced several other charges related to a sweeping kickback probe at state-run oil company Petrobras, and Odebrecht is serving a 19-year sentence after his conviction on other corruption allegations in the investigation.
The new charges come amid expectations that Odebrecht - Latin America's largest construction conglomerate - is on the cusp of signing a leniency deal with prosecutors that would see its former CEO and dozens of other executives turn state's witness.
Prosecutors have said the Odebrecht group, with its global reach and powerful connections inside Brazil, was at the heart of the long-running corruption scheme. Testimony from its executives could significantly expand the Petrobras probe, lead to new investigations and implicate more politicians.
Brazil's top prosecutor Rodrigo Janot is investigating 66 politicians - many sitting lawmakers - for alleged participation in the Petrobras scheme, a number that could grow significantly with possible testimony from Odebrecht executives.
To date, nearly 200 executives and former politicians have been charged in the Petrobras probe and 83 have already been found guilty. Prosecutors are seeking 38 billion reais ($12 billion) in damages from companies and individuals involved.
Federal prosecutors in Brasilia said the latest charges are related to alleged crimes carried out from "at least" 2008 - when Lula was still president - until 2015.
They allege Lula used his influence while in office to secure financing from Brazil's state development bank BNDES for undisclosed Odebrecht projects in Angola - and that Odebrecht in return paid 30 million reais in kickbacks to Lula and others.
Lawyers for Lula did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Prosecutors also said in their statement they are looking into Odebrecht projects elsewhere in Africa and Latin America to see if the company received low-interest BNDES loans in the same manner as the alleged scheme in Angola.
Lula was charged on Monday with corruption, influence peddling and money laundering - the latter of which prosecutors say they found on 44 occasions, often by Odebrecht paying inflated prices to subcontractor Exergia Brasil, which was run by a Lula confidant who was also charged in the case.
It is now up to a federal judge in Brasilia whether or not  to accept the prosecutor' charges against Lula and the others and put them on trial.
Lula had already been charged twice for various counts of corruption in connection with a massive anti-graft investigation centered on state oil company Petrobras, known formally as Petroleo Brasileiro SA.
Sergio Moro, a crusading anti-corruption judge in southern Brazil, has ruled that Lula will stand for at least one set of those charges. The trial date has not been set.
Prosecutors wrote in their Monday indictment that Lula also received kickbacks for an unspecified sum from Odebrecht for delivering lectures to business leaders abroad, although it is not clear if the speeches actually took place.
"It is suspected that ... those contracts and payments, in truth, were only to conceal the real reason behind Odebrecht's payments to ex-President Lula," the document read.
($1 = 3.22 reais)

ISTANBUL Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit Berlin on Oct. 19 for talks with some leaders of the European Union and Ukraine to discuss a solution to the Ukrainian crisis, a Kremlin aide told reporters on Monday.
Putin is already due to visit Paris on that day, although French President Francois Hollande has said he may not see his Russian counterpart. Hollande has condemned Putin's "unacceptable" support for Syrian air strikes.
It was not immediately clear whether Putin planned to visit both cities on the same day.
The Kremlin had earlier said German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Putin had agreed on a schedule of future contacts in the so-called Normandy format, first adopted in 2014, which brings together the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France.

LONDON Missile attacks from Yemen on Western military craft risk spilling over into nearby busy sea lanes which could disrupt  oil supplies and also other vital goods passing through the tense area, shipping and insurance sources say.
While shipping companies have yet to divert ships, there are growing worries that any further escalation could hinder oil supplies and potentially lead to higher insurance costs for shipments.
The route is among the world's busiest and used by major shipping groups such as container line Maersk (MAERSKb.CO) and oil tanker carriers including Norway's Frontline (FRO.OL) and Iran's NITC, which has benefited this year from the lifting of international sanctions on Tehran.
A ship insurance source said some ships coming into Yemeni ports were already switching off their tracking systems, which allow anyone to monitor their movements via the Internet, due to the violence in the country.
The source said war risk insurance premiums to Yemeni ports such as Hodaida in the north, already amounted to hundreds of thousands of dollars of cover for every vessel.
A U.S. Navy guided missile destroyer was targeted on Sunday in a failed missile attack from territory in Yemen controlled by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels, a U.S. military spokesman said, although the ship was not hit.
The Houthi movement on Monday denied its forces had carried out a missile attack on a U.S. warship.
The attempted strike on the USS Mason came just a week after a United Arab Emirates vessel was attacked by Houthis and suggests growing risks to the U.S. military from Yemen's conflict.
The attacks took place around the Bab al-Mandab gateway though which nearly four million barrels of oil are shipped daily to Europe, the United States and Asia.
"The Bab al-Mandab is a vital artery for shipping," said Gavin Simmonds, security and commercial policy director with the UK Chamber of Shipping.
"International shipping is totally dependent on the ability of the international community to provide safe transit of commercial vessels along major sea lanes."
The UN last week said it took threats to shipping around Bab al-Mandeb "extremely seriously".
"It is a deteriorating situation and it is worrying that this longer range weaponry is being used in the area," said Phillip Belcher marine director with INTERTANKO, an association which represents the majority of the world's tanker fleet.
Yemen has a 1,900-km (1,181 mile) coastline that also juts into the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea - a vast area to police given international navies are already stretched combating Somali piracy in the region, which had been contained in recent years.
The U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence said in a report last week commercial ships in the Red Sea, Bab al-Mandab and Gulf of Aden areas should operate "under a heightened state of alert as increasing tensions in the region escalate the potential for direct or collateral damage to vessels transiting the region".
Riyadh is leading a coalition of Arab states which began launching air strikes against the Houthis in Yemen 18 months ago to restore to power ousted President Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi.
The war has killed at least 10,000 people and brought parts of Yemen, by far the poorest country in the Arabian peninsula, to the brink of starvation. Both sides accuse the other of war crimes.

ABUJA Nigeria is talking to oil companies and seeking to make contact with the leaders of militant groups in an effort to end attacks on oil facilities in the Niger Delta, President Muhammadu Buhari said on Monday.
"Another serious form of insecurity has reared its head in the Niger Delta. The objective is to colonize the country economically by sabotaging oil and gas installations," Buhari said in a statement.
"We are trying to speak with their leaders to know how many groups there are."

PARIS French police unions complained angrily on Monday about being sent into gang-ridden "no-go zones" after two officers were seriously injured in a petrol bomb attack during a routine surveillance job in an area south of Paris at the weekend.
The incident, in which around 15 people attacked a patrol car in broad daylight on Saturday, played into a national debate on security in the run-up to next year's presidential election. It prompted calls from political adversaries for the resignation of Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve.
"We're very angry. It is surreal that colleagues be injured on such a mission," said Nicolas Comte, a spokesman for France's second-biggest police union, Unité SGP Police.
Unions urged staff to take part in silent protests in front of police stations throughout France on Tuesday, and called for a go-slow in the area where the attack was carried out to press the government to give police more resources.
"Despite all the reassurances, there are still no-go zones in France ruled by a handful of gangs of criminals who get more and more radical as the years go by," the SCSI-CFDT union said.
After two years marked by deadly militant attacks, and with France still under emergency law, security is dominating the agenda in the run-up to the presidential and parliamentary elections starting in April 2017.
Prime Minister Manuel Valls said the attackers would be hunted down and punished, and insisted there are no no-go zones in France. But opponents were quick to accuse President Francois Hollande's Socialist government of being a soft touch on law and order.
"A strong state is a state that does not go into retreat, a state that gets rid of no-go zones," said Alain Juppe, the center-right politician that opinion polls favor to become France's next president.
The police team that was attacked had been posted in a parked car to watch a closed-circuit TV camera that had been broken several times since it was installed by town authorities after a spate of smash-and-grab robberies targeting motorists.

KIGALI Rwandan President Paul Kagame criticized France on Monday after French investigators reopened a investigation into the 1994 assassination of the Rwandan president, a killing that triggered the country's genocide.
"The judicial system of Rwanda is not subordinate to France or France's interests," Kagame told a cheering audience of judges, senior military officers and government officials at an official judicial function.
"It should be France in the dock being tried, not anybody in Rwanda and not Rwandans."
Rwanda's former chief of army staff Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa, now in exile, has accused Kagame of being linked to the shooting down of the plane carrying president Habyarimana Juvenal, the president of Burundi and a French air crew.
Nyamwasa made the accusations against Kagame in a widely reported trial in 2012, two years after an attempt to murder Nyamwasa in South Africa.
Kagame says the plane was shot down by Juvenal's own supporters who disapproved of a peace deal Juvenal had negotiated with Kagame's rebels.
The shooting down of the plane unleashed a slaughter in which ethnic Hutu extremists killed more than 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
The investigation was opened in March 1998 after a complaint by the families of the French crew of the plane. It has been closed twice because of problems evaluating the evidence but was reopened after Nyamwasa requested to be heard by investigators.
The French judge in charge of the investigation has asked South Africa, where Nyamwasa lives, to be given permission to question him, according to a French judicial source.
French judges have previously called for senior Rwandan military officers, including Kagame, to be put on trial for shooting down the plane.
Before the genocide, France was Rwanda's main Western backer. But their relations collapsed after the genocide as Kagame accused France of training and arming the Hutu militias who were the main force behind the slaughter - an accusation Paris always denied.

NIAMEY German Chancellor Angela Merkel promised cash and military vehicles on Monday to help Niger fight human traffickers and militant Islamists, trying to bolster a country that is a key staging post for migrants trying to reach Europe.
Merkel, under intense political pressure at home for allowing nearly a million migrants into Germany last year, was on the second leg of a three-country African tour that started in Mali and will finish in Ethiopia.
She admitted after meeting Niger's President Mahamadou Issoufou that her goal of stabilizing African countries by creating better economic conditions, thereby tackling one of the root causes of migration, could only be reached in the long term.
"But this cannot be an excuse for not trying to achieve short-term success," Merkel told a news conference.
She said Germany would support Issoufou's government with 77 million euros ($86 million) to combat people-smuggling and illegal migration in the central Agadez region.
Germany would also help Niger's armed forces in their fight against militant Islamists by offering military vehicles and other equipment worth 10 million euros, she said.
Issoufou welcomed Merkel's pledge, but said more money from EU countries was needed to tackle the migration challenge. "We need massively more aid," he said.
The European Union has pledged support for African countries worth 1.8 billion euros, but Niger alone had identified a  financial need of 1 billion, the president said.
Roughly 90 percent of migrants who reach the Libyan post, a jumping-off point for the dangerous Mediterranean crossing to Italy, cross through Niger, making it a crucial partner for Europe in controlling migration flows.
Germany, France and Italy have said they want to develop particularly closer relationships with Niger and neighboring Mali. Merkel is the first German chancellor ever to visit Niger, one of the world's poorest countries.
The chancellor has described Africa, with its population of 1.2 billion people, as "the central problem" in the migration issue. Last month she said the EU needed to establish deals with North African countries along the lines of its agreement with Turkey to curb migrant flows across its territory to southeast Europe.
Merkel will travel on to Ethiopia on Tuesday, on the last leg of her first extended trip to Africa since 2011.

GENEVA The top U.N. human rights official renewed his call on Monday for an international probe into possible war crimes committed in Yemen, saying the bombing of a funeral showed that violations continued unpunished.
An air strike, widely blamed on Saudi warplanes, ripped through a wake attended by some of Yemen's top political and security officials on Saturday, killing 140 people.
Yemen's Houthi movement fired ballistic missiles at Saudi Arabia, and the United States said on Sunday a failed missile attack from Houthi-controlled areas targeted one of its warships.
Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a statement that countries belonging to the U.N. Human Rights Council had contributed to "a climate of impunity" in Yemen by failing to investigate adequately.
The council last month declined to set up an independent inquiry into abuses in Yemen, where a Saudi-led coalition is battling Shi'ite Houthi fighters and forces loyal to the former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Saudi Arabia is among the 47 member states of the forum, which for the second year in a row voted to support a Yemeni probe that reports to Saudi-backed President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi - a decision decried by human rights activists.
"The Human Rights Council’s inability to take decisive action by setting up an international investigation is contributing to a climate of impunity, and violations continue to occur on a regular basis," Zeid said.
"Such outrageous attacks cannot be allowed to continue.”
He also called on all states contributing to the war to seriously reconsider their support to the warring parties.
Since the conflict flared up in March 2015, at least 4,125 civilians have been killed and 7,207 injured, the U.N. statement said, noting that casualties have risen since a cessation of hostilities collapsed in August.
In just the first 10 days of October, 369 civilians have been killed or injured, tripling the rate of September which recorded 379 casualties for the entire month, he said, adding that the latest incident could cause a further escalation.

UNITED NATIONS United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on Monday there must be accountability for the "appalling conduct" of the entire war in Yemen after an apparent Saudi-led air strike killed 140 Yemenis.
"Aerial attacks by the Saudi-led coalition have already caused immense carnage, and destroyed much of the country's medical facilities and other vital civilian infrastructure," Ban told reporters. "More broadly, there must be accountability for the appalling conduct of this entire war."

LONDON/PARIS Britain will honor a commitment to take in migrant children from the "Jungle" camp in the French port city of Calais, interior minister Amber Rudd said on Monday, urging France to help her speed the process.
Rudd said progress had been made at a meeting with French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve to help resettle unaccompanied children in the camp to Britain or to a safe children's center while any necessary paperwork is processed.
Britain has been accused of dragging its heels on helping move the around 1,000 unaccompanied children in the Jungle, an overcrowded camp which is home to nearly 10,000 people fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and Africa.
Paris has said the camp will be demolished soon.
"The UK government has made clear its commitment to resettle vulnerable children under the Immigration Act and ensure that those with links to the UK are brought here using the Dublin regulation," Rudd told parliament.
Under EU rules known as the Dublin regulation, asylum seekers must make an initial claim in the first country they reach, but can have their application examined in another if, for example, they have relatives living there.
"We have made good progress today but there is much more work to do," Rudd said, referring to the meeting with Cazeneuve where the two sides agreed to speed up the process of moving the children before the camp is demolished.
Rudd said more than 80 unaccompanied children have been accepted for transfer under the Dublin regulation since the beginning of this year and urged France to come up with a list of those who are also eligible to move under EU rules.
Earlier, Cazeneuve said he would press the case for Britain to honor its commitment to take in the children after the Red Cross charity said many had been held back by bureaucracy.
"Of the estimated 1,000 unaccompanied children who are currently living in the Calais Jungle, 178 have been identified as having family ties to the UK. This gives them the right to claim asylum in the same country," the Red Cross said.
Calais is one of several places in western Europe faced with  huge build-ups of migrants.
More than 11,000 were rescued in just 48 hours last week off the coast of Libya as they sought to cross the sea to Europe.

ADDIS ABABA Ethiopia's president, who does not wield executive power but served in the ruling coalition, said on Monday the nation had to broaden its democracy, after a wave of protests over land and political rights that rocked areas around the capital.
"Ahead of the next elections, there is the need to widen democratic platforms to ensure alternative views are expressed," President Mulatu Teshome Wirtu told parliament, after opposition parties failed to win a single seat in the 2015 vote.
The government and policy making is led by Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn.


MOSCOW Russia will create a permanent naval base in Syria to expand its military footprint in its closest Middle East ally, a government official said on Monday, a week after Moscow said it was considering reopening Soviet-era bases in Vietnam and Cuba.
The move, announced by Russian Deputy Defence Minister Nikolai Pankov, is further evidence Russia is building up its capabilities in Syria despite a partial drawdown in March and another sign it is digging in for the long haul to help prop up President Bashar al-Assad.
"By doing this Russia is not only increasing its military potential in Syria but in the entire Middle East," Senator Igor Morozov, a member of the upper house of parliament's International Affairs Committee, told the RIA news agency.
A Reuters analysis of publicly available tracking data shows Moscow has steadily built up its forces in Syria since a ceasefire collapsed in late September, doubling supply runs by air and sea.
The base plan, which will involve upgrading and expanding an existing naval facility at the port of Tartus which Moscow leases from Syria, is part of a push to expand or create a new military presence abroad.
The Izvestia newspaper said Moscow was also in talks to open an air base in Egypt, while the state-owned Rossiskaya Gazeta daily noted that Russia has said it wants bases in Venezuela, Nicaragua, the Seychelles and Singapore too.
At odds with Washington over Syria and Ukraine, Russia has engaged in a bout of saber-rattling in recent weeks, moving S-300 surface-to-air missiles to Tartus, nuclear-capable missiles to its European exclave of Kaliningrad, and reinforcing its Syria strike force.
The Russian Defence Ministry said on Monday that Russian paratroopers would for the first time also take part in war games with Egyptian paratroopers on Egyptian soil this month.

TOEHOLD IN THE MED
Pankov said plans for the permanent naval base at Tartus were well advanced.
"The necessary papers are ready and are in the process of being approved by different agencies," he told senators. "We hope we can ask you to ratify these documents soon."
Moscow already has a permanent air base in Syria from which it flies air strikes against anti-Assad rebels and uses military trainers, special forces, marines and artillery specialists to help support Syrian government forces on the ground.
Senator Morozov said that having a permanent naval base as well would allow Russia to operate more ships in the Mediterranean as they would have an enhanced facility where they could refuel and resupply.
Moscow inherited the Tartus facility when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and it is now the Russian navy's sole foothold in the Mediterranean. Despite some modernization, it is currently fairly modest and unable to welcome larger warships.
Leonid Slutsky, a senior parliamentarian, told RIA its capacity would be expanded and it would be equipped with anti-submarine defenses and new electronics systems on top of the S-300 missiles it recently received.

SANAA The Houthi movement on Monday denied its forces had carried out a missile attack on a U.S. warship which the U.S. Navy said was launched from Yemeni territory under Houthi control.
"(The Houthi movement) denies targeting any ship off Yemeni waters," a Houthi official told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity.

FRANKFURT A trial began in Germany on Monday of five South Koreans accused of beating to death a 41-year-old female relative in a Frankfurt hotel room last year as part of an exorcist ritual.
The accused, who face charges of joint murder, are a 45-year-old woman cousin of the victim and the cousin's 22-year-old son and 19-year-old daughter, as well as two 16-year-old boys, one of whom is the victim's son.
"They are accused of together cruelly killing the woman on December 5 in a Frankfurt hotel room, in a so-called exorcism," said senior prosecutor Nadja Niesen.
Prosecutors allege the five South Koreans used massive violence on the victim's neck and chest to "cast out the devils".
They are accused of kneeing her in the chest and taking turns to hold and pin her to the ground. To stop her from screaming, they allegedly stuffed a towel in her mouth multiple times, as well as a clothes hanger with clothing.
The victim underwent several hours of pain and torture and finally died by suffocation due to massive pressure on her throat and chest, prosecutors said.
The family are reportedly Christian with shamanistic influences, according to German media.

JAKARTA Indonesian police on Monday urged Muslims to stay calm and not be "provoked" by the vandalism of a mosque in the capital, aiming to dispel fears of growing ethnic tension in the run-up to next year's election for the governor of Jakarta.
Over the weekend, white Christian crosses were found spray-painted at several locations, including on the green gates of the Al Falah Mosque in Jakarta, the largest city in the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation.
The incident risks fueling already simmering tension ahead of February's election, which pits the Christian and ethnic Chinese incumbent, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, against Agus Harimurti Yudhoyono, a son of former president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, and the previous education minister, Anies Baswedan.
Yudhoyono and Baswedan are both Muslim in a nation where about 90 percent of the 250-million population follows Islam.
Indonesia also has a sizeable ethnic Chinese minority, many of whom are Buddhist. The country has a history of anti-Chinese violence, most sharply in the late 1990s amid the political and economic crisis that brought down authoritarian ruler Suharto.
Police were still looking for the vandal, Jakarta police spokesman Awi Setiyono said, adding that it was uncertain whether the act was linked to the election. "We urge the public not to be influenced and to control themselves."
Purnama, better known by his nickname "Ahok", became Jakarta's first ethnic Chinese governor in 2014, after then-governor Joko Widodo stepped down to successfully run for president.
Hardline Muslim groups had opposed his rise to power.
Purnama has a reputation as a tough reformer, but he has recently come under attack from several Muslim groups for allegedly insulting the religion's holy book, the Koran.
Muhammadiyah, one of the country's biggest Muslim organizations, had asked the police to investigate Purnama for alleged religious defamation.
During a visit to an Indonesian island last month, Purnama referred to a verse from the Koran that seemed to suggest it was unIslamic to vote for a leader of a different religion, according to a video circulated on social media.
"Insulting a religion and spreading hatred among Muslims is a criminal case," Pedri Kasman, an official at Muhammadiyah's youth wing, which filed the police report, told Reuters.
Purnama's words were taken out of context and incorrectly linked to religious defamation, said Mohamad Guntur Romli, an official of his election campaign. Political opponents had been fanning tension ahead of the election, he added.
Thousands of Muslims plan to stage a protest against the Jakarta governor on Friday, media have reported.
While most Indonesians are rational and will choose a leader based on merit, some camps would still vote along racial or religious lines, said Irine Gayatri, a political analyst at government body the Indonesian Institute of Sciences.
"Race and religion are a convenient tool that can easily be exploited by political opponents," she added.

LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan A suspected car bomb on Monday killed at least 10 police amid increased Taliban attacks on the besieged capital of the southwestern Afghan province of Helmand, with the toll expected to rise, a security official said.
The blast, in the city of Lashkar Gah, killed 10 police officers, with at least 14 police and civilians wounded, said the official, who asked not to be named as he was not authorized to speak publicly.
A hospital run by the Italian charity Emergency said it had received 30 casualties from the blast, including civilians and security forces.
Hospital officials expressed concern over worsening conditions in Lashkar Gah, with reports of increased Taliban attacks on the outskirts, and rockets landing inside the city.
Taliban militants, who have been fighting a 15-year insurgency to topple the Western-backed government and reimpose a radical Islamist regime, control or contest most of Helmand, the scene of some of the bloodiest fighting during the international military mission in Afghanistan.
On Saturday a high-level delegation of Afghan and international military officials visited Lashkar Gah, promising to do everything possible to prevent its collapse.
Afghan elders who met with the delegation, however, criticized government strategy in the province, as well as the performance of Afghan security forces, some of whom are accused of abandoning their posts.
The NATO-led coalition has stepped up the number of military advisers working with the Afghan forces in Helmand, while American troops have been given freer rein to use more air strikes in a bid to prevent a total collapse of Afghan defenses.

BERLIN A Syrian refugee arrested in Germany after explosives were found in a flat in the city of Chemnitz was planning to carry out attacks similar in scale to those in Brussels in March and in Paris last year, the German interior minister said on Monday.
"According to what we know, the preparations in Chemnitz are similar to the preparations for the attacks in Paris and Brussels," Thomas de Maiziere said in a statement.
Joerg Michaelis, president of the Saxony state criminal investigation office, separately told a news conference that the 22-year-old refugee was most likely inspired by Islamic State.
"The behavior of the suspect speaks for an IS (Islamic State) context," he said.
Islamic State gunmen and bombers killed some 130 people in the French capital in November and the militant group claimed responsibility for suicide bomb attacks in the Belgian capital four months later that left at least 30 people dead.

BRUSSELS The concerted response from Berlin, Paris and Brussels to British Prime Minister Theresa May's announcement last week of a March deadline to open divorce talks with the European Union made clear the bloc is not waiting idly for London to call.
Statements from German, French and EU leaders show they have been working on maintaining a united front in anticipation of British attempts to play the other 27 members off against each other and have agreed some broad negotiating lines.
Their firmly articulated, central aim is to nip in the bud British demands for free trade without open immigration - once pithily summed up by Brexit leader and now foreign minister Boris Johnson as "having cake and eating it".
Less audibly, cracks have appeared in the EU refusal to discuss options before May triggers a formal process that will launch Britain out the door in two years, with some diplomats suggesting such talks could mean a less radical split.
May's setting a timetable appeased those at home who feared she was bridling at the decision to leave the EU which voters chose in a referendum in June. But it raised fears among others that she had cornered herself into a total break with the bloc.
The German chancellor, French president and heads of EU institutions in Brussels took a common line that May's demands to be free to bar EU immigrants and escape oversight by EU courts mean Britain cannot stay inside the EU single market.
That, EU officials say, means a "hard Brexit", with London's best option perhaps a free trade deal, maybe a little better than a current EU offer to Canada.
President Hollande endorsed the term "hard Brexit" last week, making clear that if that is what Britons want, France will "push this wish through" and ensure Britain ends up truly out.
May hopes for "preparatory work" with her EU counterparts to smooth the launch of formal talks. British officials want "pre-negotiations" before she writes to trigger the two-year exit process under Article 50 of the EU treaty.
If her initial demands are rejected out of hand, she may have little domestic political room to water them down.

"PRE-PARATION"?
The EU mantra is "no negotiation before notification". On Friday, Commission President Juncker said: "We won't negotiate before we've had the British government's farewell letter." (The French term he used also means "suicide note".)
But May's pledge of a March deadline has eased concerns any talks would simply let the British keep talking without suffering the jeopardy inherent in Article 50's two-year time frame.
One senior EU diplomat said setting a date for starting talks meant leaders would now be ready to "help" May frame British demands before she writes her letter: "I wouldn’t call that pre-negotiation but, perhaps, pre-paration," he said.
A senior EU official said London may get "positive noises" on what others can accept before the fateful letter: "But," he said, "It will always be a leap into at least half darkness."
British officials and politicians also talk of using economic muscle to secure concessions from other Europeans -- whether poor eastern states which might put British offers of cash to help maintain EU subsidies before the migration rights of their citizens, or German carmakers keen to keep a market.
That, argue EU diplomats and officials, may be to mistake the resolve of European leaders not just to defend their own economic interests but to prevent Britain securing a sweetheart deal that might encourage eurosceptic populism at home.
"Many Brexiters claim that the toughness of the 27 is merely an opening stance, and that, when talks commence, economic self-interest will push them to soften," wrote Charles Grant of the Centre for European Reform. "But that may be wishful thinking."

BRIDGES AND TRANSITIONS
The past week saw EU leaders line up to defend a hard line.
"If we don't say full access to the internal market is linked to full freedom of movement, then a movement will spread in Europe where everyone just does whatever they want," Chancellor Merkel told German industrial leaders in Berlin, telling them she would not be pressured by sectional interests.
Juncker was clearer still about a need to be "intransigent" to counter British lobbying: "We cannot have whole sections of European industry conducting secret talks in darkened rooms behind closed doors with envoys of the British government."
Many British and some European officials say the freedom of movement of labor is not essential in economic terms to a common market in goods, services and capital. The EU messaging of the past week aims to show that it is essential politically.
Even if governments might cut London slack on migration, the federalist European Parliament whose blessing any deal needs is unlikely to soften. A British push to evade EU courts but stay in the single market seems an even longer shot to EU officials.
Juncker's Brexit negotiator, former French minister Michel Barnier, started work a week ago and will tour the 27 capitals to sound out the varying priorities of member states. Barnier's deputy Sabine Weyand, a German Commission staffer and expert on trade, is preparing for some of the toughest aspects of Brexit.
Aides to EU summit chair Donald Tusk, led by Belgian diplomat Didier Seeuws, have already spent three months mapping out issues and procedures to run such complex, lengthy talks.
Officials think they can wrap up the basics of divorce, such as dividing up shared assets and liabilities by 2019, but some kind of transition deal will also have to be struck as it will take years more to conclude a complete new trading relationship.
They are working out how those two sets of talks can run in parallel: "Bridges and transitions will be pretty tricky," said one. "If you want to avoid disruption this will be the key."


LONDON The British government said on Monday that holding a second vote in parliament on the country's exit from the European Union would not be acceptable, but that lawmakers would have a role to play in scrutinizing the Brexit process.
"Parliament is of course going to debate and scrutinize that process as it goes on. That is absolutely necessary and the right thing to do," a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May told reporters.
"But, having a second vote, or a vote to second-guess the will of the British people is not an acceptable way forward."

LONDON Prime Minister Theresa May said she hoped Britain's exit from the EU would be a smooth process and that she expected to guarantee the rights of EU citizens already in Britain.
"I expect to be able to guarantee the legal rights of EU nationals already in the UK so long as the British nationals living in Europe receive - in the countries who are member states of the EU - the same treatment," she told reporters during a visit to Denmark on Monday.
She reiterated that she would trigger the formal divorce process from the bloc through Article 50 of the EU Lisbon treaty no later than the end of March next year and added: "I hope it can be a smooth and orderly departure".
May said she wanted the post-Brexit settlement to reflect "the kind of mature, cooperative relationship that close friends and allies have".

ANKARA Israeli Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz will visit Turkey on Thursday in the first ministerial visit between the two countries for six years, Israel's embassy in Ankara said in a statement on Monday.
Steinitz will meet with his Turkish counterpart Berat Albayrak and also attend the World Energy Congress in Istanbul.
Relations between the two countries crumbled after Israeli marines stormed an aid ship in May 2010 to enforce a naval blockade of the Hamas-run Gaza Strip, killing 10 Turkish activists on board. Israel and Turkey announced in June that they would normalize ties.


ZAGREB Croatia's president named Andrej Plenkovic, head of the conservative HDZ party, as prime minister-designate on Monday, with the 46-year-old former diplomat to lead a coalition government that needs urgently to tackle a struggling economy.
HDZ won 61 out of 151 seats in a snap election on Sept. 11 and struck a coalition deal with a small center-right reformist party Most (Bridge) last week. The coalition also has support from ethnic minorities which won eight seats.
Plenkovic now has 30 days to win parliament's approval for his cabinet and must quickly work out a way to spur modest growth of about 2 percent in order to manage high public debt at about 85 percent of GDP and unemployment of 13 percent.
"I want to form a cabinet as soon as possible. The work of the future government will primarily be focused on the economy. We're now starting serious work," he said after being named, as was expected.
Plenkovic secured 91 signatures from deputies, with additional support not only from ethnic minorities but also from other smaller parties.
"Plenkovic has proved he has support of a majority of deputies," President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic said.
Highlighting the tough task facing the new government, Zagreb Economic Institute analyst, Maruska Vizek, said: "Making the public firms professional and efficient, reform of the bloated public administration, streamlining of public spending and improvement of the investment climate as well as work of judiciary will be the key tests for the government's success."

MANILA The government of Philippine leader Rodrigo Duterte has been a "huge disappointment and letdown", a former president and one of Duterte's mentors said, bucking popular sentiment and a high poll rating for his first 100 days in office.
In rare criticism of Duterte, 88-year-old former president Fidel Ramos said the government was "losing badly" by prioritizing a war on drugs at the expense of issues like poverty, living costs, foreign investment and jobs.
Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella said Duterte was a reader and was aware of the commentary. Abella said Ramos, who was in office from 1992 to 1998, was acting like a father and the government respected him.
Duterte picked Ramos as his special envoy to China, to manage the fallout from an arbitration case Manila won in July that dented Beijing's claims to jurisdiction over most of the South China Sea.
Duterte has spoken often of his respect for Ramos and that Ramos had persuaded him to run in the May election.
It was not clear why Ramos made his criticism at this time and neither he nor his spokesmen were immediately available for comment.
In a Sunday editorial in the Manila Bulletin newspaper, much of it written in capital letters, Ramos listed priority focus areas that could have been "do-able" if Duterte had hit the ground running "instead of being stuck in endless controversies about extrajudicial killings of drug suspects and in his ability at using cuss-words and insults instead of civilised language".
The drugs crackdown, Duterte's signature policy popular among Filipinos who elected him in May by a huge margin, has killed more than 3,600 people since June 30, with 1,377 shot by police in operations. Activists believe the rest were mostly vigilante killings.

'DISCOMBOBULATING' STANCE
Ramos is the only president to score higher than Duterte in a Philippine opinion poll traditionally conducted after the first 90 days of each presidency.
Duterte was rated "very good", with a net satisfaction rating of 64 percent in a Social Weather Stations Poll on Thursday, behind Ramos at 66 percent. Only 11 percent of 1,200 people polled were not satisfied with Duterte.
In a separate poll on Friday, 84 percent of Filipinos supported the drug crackdown although most felt it important to arrest suspects alive.
Ramos said the government's mixed statements on Philippine-U.S. relations were "discombobulating" including Duterte's verbal attack on U.S. President Barack Obama early in September at the same time his defense minister and finance minister were on visits to the United States.
Duterte a week ago said Obama should "go to hell" and that in his time, he might "break up" with traditional ally Washington.
On Friday, he reiterated that ongoing U.S.-Philippines military exercises would be "the last" and challenged Washington to use the Central Intelligence Agency to oust him.
"So what gives??" Ramos asked in the editorial.
"Are we throwing away decades of military partnership, tactical proficiency, compatible weaponry, predictable logistics and soldier-to-soldier camaraderie, just like that?? On DU30's say-so???," he said, referring to a popular acronym for Duterte.
Ramos hoped the next 100 days would be "much, much better" and Duterte would consider "the entire gamut of Philippine problems, starting with poverty".
Presidential spokesman Abella said the government listened to what Ramos said, especially on foreign relations.
"He's a senior statesman. He has his opinion, he has his concerns, especially regarding foreign relations and these are also worth looking into," Abella told a regular briefing.
"There are really mixed reactions and while there may be some concerns, we'd also like to, you know, at the end, summarize the fact that the president is a man of action and really, we need to appreciate that more."

NAIROBI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Two groups of residents of Nairobi's Kibera slum have gone to court to block the government from building a road through their homes, schools, churches, clinics and graveyards.
Forced evictions are common in Kenya, where millions of poor people squat on public land amid a shortage of legally-sanctioned affordable housing.
Here are four landmark rulings from Kenyan courts, which are on the frontline of the battle over forced evictions.

$2 MILLION COMPENSATION AWARD
* In 2011, the High Court ordered the government to restore more 1,100 residents living near Garissa in northern Kenya to their land, rebuild their homes and pay $2.2 million in compensation after the police and unidentified youth evicted them and destroyed 149 homes.
The community had been occupying public land since the 1940s but government officials said they needed it for a road and gave residents a verbal notice that they had 21 days to leave or be evicted with no alternative settlement.
"The eviction threw them into an open, hostile and shelter-less environment where there was no single basic necessity of life," the judge ruled, adding that their rights to housing and to be treated with dignity and respect had been violated.
It is not clear whether the compensation was ever paid.

JUDGE'S LAMENT
* In 2013, Kenya's High Court ruled that the railway pension board had violated the rights of tenants renting its houses in Nairobi to adequate housing and sanitation, and human dignity and violated children's rights to protection after it sent bulldozers to demolish hundreds of homes at dawn.
The board gave the tenants of Muthurwa Estate 90 days to vacate their homes so that it could build modern apartments and offices on the site.
"I must lament the widespread forced evictions that are occurring in the county coupled with a lack of adequate warning and compensation which are justified mainly by public demands for infrastructural developments," judge Isaac Lenaola ruled.
"The right to adequate housing cannot be aspirational and merely speculative. It is a right which has crystallized and which the State must endeavor to realize," he said, giving the Attorney General 90 days to explain the government's policies on forced evictions and demolitions and whether they are in line with international standards.
The court also gave the Attorney General 90 days to explain what the steps the government was taking to realize the right to accessible and adequate housing in Kenya's 2010 constitution.
In the absence of domestic law, it ordered the railway to follow international guidelines on evictions, such as respecting the evictees' right to dignity and security and not carrying out evictions during the night or during school exam periods.

FLIGHT PATH RISK
* In 2013 the High Court directed the government to resettle 15,000 residents whose shanties near Nairobi's Wilson Airport were demolished in 2011 because they were in the flight path, despite a court order restraining them.
Kenya Airports Authority put a notice in a newspaper giving them seven days to vacate the land before the police moved in with dogs to evict them.
"Any forceful eviction or demolition without a relocation option is illegal," judge Mumbi Ngugi said, adding that those who carried out the demolition had disrespected both the court order and the squatters.
In its submission, Kenya Airports Authority said it would be wrong to violate the rights of property owners to realize squatters' rights to housing, which could only be met when the government had sufficient funds to build more affordable homes.
The judge rejected this, saying the state had shown a "callous disregard" for the squatters as it was obliged to protect their homes while doing what it could to realize their right to housing.
"It robs them of their dignity, jeopardizes their right to health, and threatens their right to life," she said.
Ngugi gave the Attorney General 60 days to file an affidavit on state policies on provision of housing to slum dwellers.

OVERTURNED
* In 2016, the Court of Appeal overturned the ruling regarding shantytown residents living near Wilson Airport following an appeal by Kenya Airports Authority.
It found that Ngugi erred in issuing orders to the Attorney General to present to court the state's housing policies, which was not one of the petitioner's pleas.
"Courts have no role to play in policy formulation," the judgment said. "It is not the role or function of courts to re-engineer and redistribute private property rights."
It also rejected her reference to comments by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights on the U.N.'s eviction guidelines.
While Kenya's constitution makes the general rules of international law part of Kenyan law, the court found that these comments did not qualify as such.
"Neither the U.N. nor any international organization legislates for Kenya," it said.

LONDON British police have issued warnings after a spate of creepy clown sightings across the country, mimicking a prank that began in the United States and has spread across the world.
Police forces said they had received dozens of reports of "killer clown" sightings in the last week where individuals dressed in clown outfits sometimes carrying knives have acted suspiciously or chased people, often young children.
"We believe this to be part of a much larger prank which is currently sweeping across the USA and parts of the UK," said Sergeant Mel Sutherland from Durham Police in northern England.
The clown sightings started around Greenville, South Carolina, in August, when police received reports of clowns standing silently by roadsides, near laundries and trying to lure children into the woods with bags of cash and green laser lights.
It is unclear what started the craze, although some have suggested it may be part of a horror movie publicity stunt or an elaborate hoax, and there have been similar reports sightings in Australia and New Zealand.
The incidents in Britain have been harmless but nonetheless frightening, police said. In Durham, four children aged 11 or 12, were followed to school on Friday by a man in a clown outfit who was armed with a knife.
"It is very alarming he was carrying a knife however we do not think he intended to harm the children and as far as we are aware, this is part of the prank," Sutherland said.
Thames Valley Police, which covers an area from the west of London to central England, said on Sunday it had been called to 14 spooky clown incidents in the previous 24 hours.
In Clacton-on-Sea to the east of London, police said two girls were approached by two clowns asking if they wanted to go to a birthday party and that there had been a number of similar sightings in the area mostly near schools.
The recent craze led best-selling U.S. horror author Stephen King, whose 1986 novel "It" tells the story of a supernatural being that appears as a clown, to appeal for anti-clown sentiment to be tempered.
"Hey, guys, time to cool the clown hysteria - most of 'em are good, cheer up the kiddies, make people laugh," King wrote on his Twitter website last week.

OLONGAPO, Philippines Some drug users seeking to avoid becoming a bloody statistic in Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte's crackdown on narcotics,  are going into a rehabilitation program that teaches them how to make coffins.
More than 700,000 drug users and pushers have registered with the authorities in a process termed "surrendering", but there are few programs or facilities to help most of them.
But in Olongapo, a city of 220,000 three hours north of Manila, drug users are taught carpentry skills and paid 5,000 Philippine pesos ($103) a month to build wooden coffins as part of the local government's livelihood and rehabilitation program.
"I knew that if I don't change, I will be in one of those caskets," said a 44-year-old man, who declined to be named, pointing to coffins in a small workshop where nine other former drug users were also working.
Since Duterte was sworn into office on June 30, more than 3,600 people have been killed, mostly alleged drug users and dealers, in police operations and suspected vigilante killings.
At least 400 self-confessed drug users have surrendered to Olongapo police since June and will be included in the coffin building program in the coming months.
The caskets, made of simple plywood and painted white, are provided to the poorest families in the city who are unable to afford funeral services, government officials said.
Filipinos gave Duterte an "excellent" rating for his war on drugs, an opinion poll showed on Friday, but there was an indication of possible unease over the deadly campaign as most respondents said it was important to arrest suspects alive.
Western governments and human rights groups have expressed concern and called for thorough investigations into the killings.

PHNOM PENH Cambodian land rights protesters clashed with city security guards on Monday as demonstrators in the capital Phnom Penh called on the government to end forced evictions.
Land disputes are a highly contentious issue in Cambodia, where tens of thousands of people have been evicted to make way for foreign and domestic firms, prompting widespread protests, violent clashes and, in some cases, jail terms for those who refuse to move.
A video circulated on Facebook showed security guards punching and slapping protesters. Reuters couldn't independently verify the authenticity of the video.
The protesters, many holding models of homes over their heads, were marking World Habitat Day, which took place last week as a reminder of people's right to shelter.
Phnom Penh City Hall spokesman Mean Chanyada said that a journalist and a human rights worker were injured in the clash and that the use of violence was necessary to stop hundreds of demonstrators from marching forward.
"There was a small clash because the protesters didn't follow instructions of the authorities to gather only at one place," Chanyada told Reuters.
Licadho, a local rights group, called the attack "unacceptable".

BEIJING Four houses collapsed in the eastern Chinese coastal city of Wenzhou on Monday, killing at least eight people, Xinhua state news agency said, and rescuers were looking for survivors.
Rescuers had already pulled five people alive from the rubble, Xinhua said. It did not give a cause for the pre-dawn collapse.
It was unknown how many people were in the buildings when the accident happened in an industrial district of Wenzhou in Zhejiang province.

DUBAI An air strike on a funeral gathering, widely blamed on Saudi-led warplanes, poses more trouble for a Western-backed Arab campaign against Yemen's Houthis that has long been criticized for civilian losses.
The White House announced an immediate review of Washington's support for the 18-month-old military push after planes hit mourners at a community hall in the capital, Sanaa, on Saturday, killing 140 people, according to one U.N. estimate and 82 according to the Houthis.
The statement from Riyadh's main ally, noting for the second time in as many months that U.S. support was not "a blank check", sets up an awkward test of a Saudi-U.S. partnership already strained by differences over wars in other Arab lands.
The reproach also indirectly hands a propaganda win to Riyadh's arch-rival, Tehran, a Houthi ally that has long seen the Sunni kingdom as a corrupt and domineering influence on its impoverished southern neighbor, diplomats say.
Sources in the Saudi-led coalition denied any role in the attack, but Riyadh later promised an investigation of the "regrettable and painful" incident, with U.S. expert advice. The move was apparently aimed at heading off further criticism of a military campaign already under fire for causing hundreds of civilian deaths in apparently indiscriminate attacks.

PRESSURE
"There will be pressure on the campaign," said Mustafa Alani, a security analyst close to Saudi Arabia's Interior Ministry. While the coalition followed very careful rules and understood human rights concerns, "there will now be pressure to end the whole operation, or to restrict the operation".
An estimated 10,000 people have been killed in the war and the United Nations blames coalition strikes for 60 percent of some 3,800 civilian deaths since they began in March 2015.
The outcry over civilian casualties has led some lawmakers in the United States and Britain as well as rights activists to push for curbs on arms sales to Riyadh, so far without success.
The coalition denies deliberately targeting civilians and says it goes to great lengths to ensure its raids are precisely targeted, with explosive loads calibrated to limit the risk of causing damage beyond the immediate target area.
Saudi officials said the kingdom did not want to fight a war in Yemen.
"But we cannot stand by while insurgents overthrow a legitimate government in a neighboring state by force, while Yemen becomes a lawless state and terrorist haven, and while we are attacked across our border," one of the officials said.
"Saudi Arabia will continue to provide military support to Yemen’s legitimate government while the insurgents continue their illegal campaign.  ... But we will also continue to support and promote a negotiated settlement."
The coalition accuses the Houthis, who seized much of the north in a series of military advances since 2014, of placing military targets in civilian areas. The Houthis deny that.
Fury in Sanaa at Saturday's raid was echoed internationally.
A spokesman for U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said any deliberate attack against civilians was utterly unacceptable.
Ban called for "a prompt and impartial investigation of this incident. Those responsible for the attack must be brought to justice", the spokesman said.
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said in a letter to Ban that the Saudi-led coalition and those who had supported it should "be held accountable for the war crimes perpetrated in Yemen over the past year and a half."
Yemen and Saudi Arabia blame Shi'ite Iran for supplying weapons to the Houthis. Tehran views the Houthis, who hail from a Shi'ite sect, as the legitimate authority in Yemen but denies it supplies them with weapons.
U.N. emergency relief coordinator Stephen O'Brien described the attack as obscene and heinous. France called it a "massacre" and said it wanted an independent inquiry.
There was dismay, too, in the ranks of the internationally recognized Yemeni government that the coalition is defending.

'DIRTY WAR'
"It's shocking to see that a target like this was hit," said a senior official in the Saudi-backed government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi. "It's the latest in a series of attacks by all sides on civilian targets like homes and public gatherings that are turning this into a dirty war."
"If anything positive can come from this, it would be increasing the will for a ceasefire that is needed. But incidents like these before have just fueled a desire for revenge."
Yemen's powerful former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, a key Houthi ally, called on Sunday for an escalation of attacks against Saudi Arabia, demanding "battle readiness at the fronts on the (Saudi) border".
Saleh's remarks reflected the febrile political climate in Sanaa, but it was not clear what concrete effect they might have. Houthi forces regularly fire rockets across the frontier, occasionally killing or wounding Saudi civilians, and bands of Houthi fighters stage border incursions almost daily.
Thousands of Yemenis, many of them armed, gathered at the U.N. headquarters in Sanaa on Sunday calling for an international investigation into the strike.
The funeral wake was for the father of the interior minister of northern Yemen's Houthi-run administration, Jalal al-Roweishan, who died of natural causes on Friday. Yemenis say the Roweishan family is widely respected and has good ties with many groups and tribes across Yemen's political spectrum.
Mokhtar al-Rahabi, a spokesman for Hadi, condemned the attack on his official Facebook page on Saturday.
"Bombing a mourning hall in which there were dozens of civilians is not acceptable, even if leaders of the (Houthi) putschists were present. Our war is a war of morals."
A statement issued by the alliance after Saturday's raid reiterated that its forces "have clear instructions not to target populated areas and to avoid civilians".
But the eventual prospect of a more limited military campaign - perhaps through tighter targeting parameters for air operations - and a possible reduction in Western support could deliver a blow to Riyadh's efforts to confront perceived Iranian expansionism in its southern neighbor.
The Houthis and powerful local allies hold most of Yemen's northern half, while forces working for the exiled government share control of the rest of the country with local tribes.

COMPENSATION
Peace talks have made little headway. Hadi's government insists on compliance with U.N. Security Council resolution 2216, which calls on the Houthis to withdraw from cities seized since 2014.
Riyadh has long accused Hezbollah's ally Iran of backing the Houthis and seeking to transform the group into a replica of the Lebanese militia to use as a proxy against Saudi Arabia.
While Washington has long expressed understanding for Saudi concerns about Iranian activism in Arab lands, the U.S. military has distanced itself from the coalition's targeting decisions.
In June, the U.S. military withdrew personnel from Saudi Arabia who were coordinating with the Saudi-led air campaign, and sharply reduced the number of staff elsewhere who were assisting in that planning.
U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the lower staffing was not due to concern over civilian casualties. But the Pentagon also said that in its discussions with the coalition, it pressed the need to minimize civilian casualties.

DUBAI An Arab coalition intercepted two missiles fired by Yemen's Houthi group at targets in Saudi Arabia and Yemen's Marib province on Sunday, Saudi Arabian official media reported.
Warplanes from the Saudi-led coalition later attacked the two military bases where the missiles came from, the Saudi Press Agency reported late on Sunday.
A base in the capital Sanaa fired one missile towards Marib, and a base in northern Saada province launched a missile towards the Saudi city of Taif, the site of a Saudi air force base, according to media reports.
The Houthi-run Saba News reported that a missile fired by Houthi forces hit the Taif base, causing what it called a huge explosion. The report could not be independently confirmed.
An estimated 10,000 people have been killed in the war, which has caused a humanitarian disaster and widespread shortages of essentials. The United Nations says more than half Yemen's 28 million people do not have enough to eat.
Saudi Arabia and its allies, which are fighting in support of the exiled government of Yemeni President Abd Rabbu Mansour Hadi, see the Houthis as proxies of their arch-rival Iran.
The Houthis deny this and say Hadi and Saudi Arabia are pawns of the West bent on dominating their impoverished country and excluding them from power.

LAHORE/ISLAMABAD In Abdul Aziz's print shop, the daily blackouts that plunge him into darkness and silence his rolling presses are costly and chip away at his faith in Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
For nearly a decade, power shortages have hobbled the country's economy and eaten into Aziz's profits, preventing him from hiring more staff or expanding his family-owned business.
Sharif swept to power in 2013 vowing to eradicate crippling outages that brought Pakistan's $250 billion economy to its knees, but he now faces a race against time to stay true to his word before the next general election in 2018.
"If Nawaz Sharif ends (power shortages) by the election in 2018, we will vote for him again," said Aziz, 40, who lives in Sharif's constituency in Lahore, capital of Punjab province.
"If he doesn't, we will not."
Power supplies are not the only factor that will decide any poll. A further escalation in tensions with nuclear-armed rival India could destabilize the government, as could Islamist militant violence or street protests.
But Sharif has greater control over energy supply, and his government has spent billions of dollars building liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants, pipelines and dams, while private investors are financing wind and solar.
A major coal and two small nuclear plants are also due to come online before Sharif's term ends.
The power projects, coinciding with the biggest road building program in Pakistan's history, are central to Sharif's strategy to win the 2018 poll by promoting infrastructure as evidence of economic progress.
Pakistan's sputtering economy has rebounded in recent years, helped by lower global oil prices and improved security.
Chinese companies are arriving in force after Beijing outlined plans in 2014 to invest $46 billion in road, rail and energy infrastructure linking western China with Pakistan's Arabian Sea coast, with two-thirds of the money earmarked for energy.

STALLED REFORMS
The drive to boost generation above 17,000 megawatts (MW) and plug a 6,000 MW deficit has already yielded some results. Shortages in big cities, which two years ago went without power for 12 hours a day, are down to about six hours.
Sharif vowed last month that all scheduled outages would end before the next election, likely to be in May, 2018. His office said generation would hit 26,000 MW, a 3,000 MW surplus.
There are fears, including within Sharif's own ruling PML-N party, that the room for error has shrunk to zero and the ambitious targets could be missed, especially after two big hydro projects were delayed.
"There are a lot of moving parts with all these projects," said one Western diplomat in Islamabad. "The government has a comprehensive plan, but obviously there is some nervousness about the timelines."
Halting outages would breathe fresh life into Pakistan's economy, which needs to expand above 6 percent per year to absorb new entrants into the job market from a fast-growing population of 190 million people.
Economic growth hit 4.7 percent last July-June fiscal year, the fastest pace of expansion since 2008. Economists estimate energy shortages shave up to 2 percent off annual growth.
Some energy experts say Sharif's electricity goals are within reach.
The Asian Development Bank, lending Pakistan more than $1 billion to help alleviate the energy crisis, expects load shedding, or scheduled outages, will be eradicated by mid-2018.

SCARED TO PRIVATIZE?
Sharif's opponents, however, say the government is so fixated on boosting power generation that it has ignored reforms, like privatizing distribution companies, that would modernize the market and lower the cost of electricity.
Many Pakistani businesses complain about the price of power. Lahore barber Eijaz Ahmed, forced to down tools for several hours every day, fumes about spending up to 60 percent of his revenues on electricity.
"I cannot spend money on my children's education because I have to pay (expensive) electricity bills," he said, as his staff sat idle, waiting for power to return.
Fearing disruption by the unions around election time, the government has backed out of privatizing 10 key power distribution companies, which are broadly inefficient, and will now list some of their shares on the Pakistan Stock Exchange.
And though there has been investment in some large-scale transmission lines, there are questions about how older ones will cope with an impending surge in generation.
"None of the institutional things that needed to be done are being done," said Shafqat Mahmood, senior member of the opposition Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party.

"INVEST IN OUR PEOPLE"
Government officials concede some key reforms have not been enacted, but say there was simply too much to do in the space of a few years, and beefing up generation took priority. The power market, they say, will be liberalized after the 2018 election.
"We have to work in phases. The first phase will be availability of power and second will be affordability," said Mohammad Younus Dagha, the top bureaucrat at the Water and Power Ministry.
Pakistan's long-term energy plans have also been boosted by the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project, which has spurred interest from foreign investors.
Dagha said in the 20 years to 2014, Pakistan attracted 10,000 MW in power generation from foreign investors, but after CPEC was announced, Pakistan secured 12,000 MW of future generation from foreign sources in 2015 alone.
Analysts say if Sharif can roll back electricity shortages it would put him in pole position to win another mandate.
People within his party also believe he has been boosted by big infrastructure projects such as slick metro bus systems built on concrete stilts above clogged roads in major cities.
About $9.5 billion is also being spent on road projects due to be completed in the next three years.
"We shouldn't be overconfident, but I fancy our chances," said Miftah Ismail, a businessman who is a special assistant to Sharif.
The opposition has painted Sharif's infrastructure plans as vanity projects and accuse him of inflating Pakistan's debt burden to boost his re-election chances.
In a stark reminder of the challenges facing Pakistan, the World Bank said last week nearly half of the country's children are malnourished.
"In Lahore, you have these mega projects but don't have drinking water which is clean," said Mahmood, the opposition politician. "We need investment in our people."

MOSCOW Russian President Vladimir Putin still plans to visit France later this month, despite French President Francois Hollande saying he was unsure whether to receive him, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday.
"Preparation for Putin's upcoming visit to Paris continues," Peskov told journalists.
Hollande condemned Russia's "unacceptable" support for Syrian air strikes in excerpts from a TV interview released on Sunday and said he was asking himself whether to see Putin when he visits Paris on Oct. 19.

SANAA Thousands of Yemenis, many of them armed, gathered at the United Nations headquarters in Yemen's capital Sanaa on Sunday calling for an international investigation into an air strike on a wake this weekend that was widely blamed on Saudi-led forces.
The attack - that killed at least 140 people on Saturday - hit a hall where rows of the city's notables had gathered for the wake of the interior minister's father.
The Saudi-led coalition has denied any role in the incident, believed to be one of the deadliest strikes in the 18-month-old war in which at least 10,000 people have been killed.
The attack has been condemned by the U.N., the European Union and the United States.
Pictures showed the inside of the once-ornate hall reduced to a pile of twisted metal and rubble after two huge explosions.
Radios and mosque loudspeakers throughout the city blared mourning verses as demonstrators crowded the streets around the U.N. headquarters, many waving their rifles in the air.
Nada, a high school student living near the site said body parts propelled by the explosion flew into her house.
"What happened was an unprecedented crime ... The sight of it was terrifying and will never leave my mind," she said.
One Sanaa resident, Ahmed Abu Taleb, described his frantic search for a relative.
"We were searching in the hall and in hospitals from the afternoon until dawn today, but after all our anguish we learned that he was among the dead."
On Sunday, Yemen's powerful former president Ali Abdullah Saleh called for more attacks at the Saudi border. Saleh holds sway in the military fighting with Houthi rebels who pushed Yemen's internationally recognized government into exile in March 2015.
Saudi Arabia has launched thousands of air strikes against the Shi'ite Houthis, who the kingdom and its Gulf Arab allies fear are a proxy for their archenemy Iran.
In another sign that the attack may escalate already raging regional tensions, Iran's main ally in the Arab world commiserated with the Houthis and condemned Saudi Arabia.
"I say to (Yemen's) people: you will ultimately triumph," the leader of the armed Lebanese group, Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah, said on Saturday.
"Your noble revolutionary blood will triumph over the sword of those bloodthirsty savages."
(This version of the story corrects to add "with" in paragraph 11, making clear that the military is fighting alongside the Houthis)

ABUJA Raids targeting senior Nigerian judges carried out by the country's security agency were part of an anti-corruption drive and were not an attack on the judiciary, a spokesman for President Muhammadu Buhari said on Sunday.
The Department of State Services (DSS) on Saturday said it seized $800,000 in cash found during raids on the judges' premises that were conducted in the last few days. It said the judges were from the supreme, appeal and high courts.
Buhari, a former military ruler, returned to power last year after winning an election largely fought on his promise to crack down on corruption. Since taking office he has vowed to recover "mind-boggling" sums of money stolen from public coffers.
But his critics have accused him of mounting a witch-hunt against political opponents.
"President Buhari remains a committed democrat, in words and in his actions, and will not take any action in violation of the constitution," his spokesman, Garba Shehu, said in a statement.
"The recent surgical operation against some judicial officers is specifically targeted at corruption and not at the judiciary as an institution," he added.
Shehu said Buhari respected the judiciary and did not seek to undermine its independence, adding that the DSS assured the president that the relevant search and arrest warrants were obtained before the searches were conducted.
The statement comes after the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) accused the DSS of a "Gestapo-style operation" and demanded the release of judges arrested in the investigation. The NBA also urged the president to respect the rule of law.

BAMAKO German Chancellor Angela Merkel pledged more support to fight against drug and people smuggling from Mali, on the first day of a trip to Africa where she will try to work toward curbing future waves of migration and to repair her reputation at home.
She gave no details on what form the support would take.
Merkel, who has yet to declare if she will seek a fourth term as chancellor next year, has seen the popularity of her conservatives slump after her move last year to allow almost one million migrants - most from the Middle East - to enter Germany.
Mali is among the top 10 countries of origin for migrants arriving in Italy this year, the International Organization for Migration says, and smuggling routes for migrants from other parts of West Africa also cross its desert spaces.
Merkel, who visits Niger on Monday and Ethiopia on Tuesday, did not say whether Germany would also provide more helicopters for the United Nations' MINUSMA mission in Mali.
Germany has more than 500 soldiers in Mali.
Merkel said Germany would intensify its support for the agriculture sector as well as for the security of the northern part of the country, where Islamist groups are still active.
She told reporters after meeting President, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita: "We have a strong interest in stabilizing the country."
"We want to contribute to the stabilization of Mali."
The Malian army is still largely absent from Mali's desert north despite a peace agreement signed last year that aimed to speed its return, placing great pressure on MINUSMA forces to keep roaming militias and Islamist militants at bay.
Merkel has described Africa, with its population of 1.2 billion, as "the central problem" in the migration issue, and last month said the EU needed to establish migrant deals with north African countries along the lines of a deal with Turkey.
Under a pact with the EU, Ankara has agreed to take back all migrants and refugees who cross the Aegean to enter Greece illegally, including Syrians.
Germany, France and Italy have said they want to develop particularly closer relationships with Niger and Mali, which they see as important partners in solving the migration issue.

CHEMNITZ, Germany German police commandos stormed an apartment in the eastern city of Chemnitz on Sunday and detained a man in connection with a hunt for a Syrian refugee suspected of planning a bomb attack.
"Nobody was injured and no shots were fired. We've taken the man into custody and we are questioning him now," said Tom Berhardt, spokesman for the Saxony state criminal investigation office.
Police found explosives in another apartment they raided in the city on Saturday but have been unable to track down the suspect, 22-year-old Jaber Albakr. Police saw him at the door of the apartment block before he slipped through their grasp.
Police evacuated the residential building and fired a warning shot before storming the first apartment only to find Albakr was not there, said Kathlen Zink, another official at the Saxony state criminal investigation office.
The German authorities have informed foreign security services about Albakr, Zink added. The Federal Prosecutor's Office said it was taking over the case.
"The overall picture of the investigation, in particular the amount of the explosive found, suggests that the person was planning to carry out an Islamist-motivated attack," a spokesman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office told broadcaster SWR.
Police found several hundred grammes of explosive in the apartment they raided on Saturday.
The suspicion that a refugee was planning a bomb attack will prove unwelcome news for Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose conservatives have lost support to the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party over her open-door migrants policy.
Merkel, who last month said she wished she could "turn back the time by many, many years" to better prepare for last year's influx of almost 1 million migrants, has yet to say whether she will seek a fourth term as chancellor in elections next year.
In July, Islamic State claimed responsibility for attacks on a train near Wuerzburg and at a music festival in Ansbach which wounded 20 people.
Despite deploying hundreds of officers, police have been unable to find Albakr.
"We must continue to assume that this person poses a danger," said Bernhardt.
Police earlier appealed to the public for any information on Albakr. They described him as wearing a black hooded top with a bright pattern on the front, and warned people to be careful of him.
Albakr had been in Germany since last year and was officially recognized as a refugee, Bernhardt said. He was not previously known to police, who raided the first flat after a tip-off from the domestic intelligence service.

PARIS French President Francois Hollande said he was unsure whether to see his Russian counterpart when he visits Paris on Oct. 19 and condemned Vladimir Putin's "unacceptable" support for Syrian air strikes, in excerpts from a TV interview released on Sunday.
Asked about the visit, Hollande told TF1 television he would "probably" receive Putin.
"I'm still asking myself the question," he said.
"Can we do anything that will make him stop what he is in the process of committing with the Syrian regime, which is supporting the bombing of Aleppo's population by its air forces?" Hollande said.
The population of heavily bombarded eastern Aleppo "are today the victims of war crimes", the French president said. "Those who commit these acts will be held responsible, including before the International Criminal Court."
The full interview is to be broadcast on Monday, TF1 said.

TBILISI The ruling party in Georgia decisively won parliamentary elections, firming its grip on power in the former Soviet nation, near-complete results showed on Sunday.
With 99.41 percent of the votes in, data from the Central Election Commission gave the ruling Georgian Dream party 48.61 percent of the vote and the opposition United National Movement (UNM) 27.04 percent.
A U.S. ally traditionally buffeted between Russia and the West, Georgia hopes to join the European Union and NATO one day even though that is something that Russia, its former colonial master, strongly opposes.
With political stability still fragile -- the first peaceful transfer of power since the 1991 Soviet collapse only took place four years ago - the authorities were keen the election be widely seen as free and fair to avoid a return to the days when politicians tried to seize power by force.
Georgia is criss-crossed by strategically important oil and gas pipelines and a fifth of its territory remains under the control of pro-Russian separatists following a short war with Russia in 2008.
Georgian Dream, which is pro-Western but also favors closer ties with Russia, declared victory shortly after polls closed on Saturday.
"I congratulate you with a big victory Georgia!" Prime Minister Georgy Kvirikashvili told jubilant supporters gathered outside the party's headquarters in Tbilisi, the capital.
"According to all preliminary results, Georgian Dream is leading with a big advantage," he said, as dozens of party members waved blue party flags and balloons.
The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe said on Sunday the election had been competitive and that fundamental freedoms had been generally respected.
With some parties threatening to organize street protests if they do not get into parliament, the government is likely to use the OSCE's assessment to bolster its assertion that the vote was largely fair despite some problems.

UNREST
The pre-election atmosphere was marred by a string of violent incidents blamed by Georgian politicians on everyone from Moscow to shadowy forces bent on destabilizing the vote.
In one of them, a group of unidentified attackers threw stones and smashed windows at two polling stations in the village of Jikhashkari in western Georgia on Saturday night.
They also damaged the ballot box and attacked international and local observers on the spot, the Georgian Young Lawyers' Association (GYLA) said in a statement.
Before that, on Tuesday, a car bomb targeted an opposition deputy in Tbilisi. Givi Targamadze survived, but five passers-by were injured.
In a separate attack, two men were shot and wounded last Sunday at an election rally in the town of Gori, while on voting day itself disturbances broke out in the village of Kizilajlo in south-east Georgia.
Georgian Dream, which came to power in 2012, is funded by tycoon Bidzina Ivanishvili, the country's richest man, while the opposition UNM was founded by former president Mikheil Saakashvili.
"I'm happy that Georgian Dream has won. I believe that they will do more for people," said Murman Sanikidze, a 37-year-old Tbilisi resident.
Although the economy is emerging from a deep slowdown, many in this nation of 3.7 million people are unhappy with their living standards, which have been hit by a decline in exports and remittances.
Ivanishvili, who made his fortune in Russia, helped end UNM's nine-year rule in 2012.
Under Georgian Dream, dozens of ex-officials have been arrested on charges such as abuse of power, though some Western countries have accused the government of applying justice selectively.
Saakashvili, now a regional politician in Ukraine, is wanted at home on several charges, including corruption. He says the charges are politically motivated.

BAGHDAD At least ten people, including four policemen, were killed by a suicide bomber in a car that targeted a checkpoint in northern Iraq on Sunday, police and medical sources said.
The attack happened in Udhaim, a Sunni town 90 km (56 miles) north of Baghdad that U.S.-backed Iraqi security forces and Iran-backed Shi'ite militias took back from Islamic State last year.
The ultra-hardline Sunni insurgents still control vast areas in northern and western Iraq, including the city of Mosul, captured in 2014.

STANYTSA LUHANSKA, Ukraine Ukraine's military on Sunday postponed a planned parallel withdrawal with pro-Russian separatists from Stanytsa Luhanska, a town on the eastern frontline, saying rebels had disregarded the agreement by firing artillery at Ukrainian positions.
In September, the two sides agreed a pilot de-escalation project in three small towns - part of a push to revive a much-violated ceasefire and end a conflict that has killed over 9,600 since early 2014.
"The separation of forces and equipment which was planned for today was postponed," said General Borys Kremenetsky, Ukraine's representative to the ceasefire coordination center.
"The main reason is the continuation of shelling along the line of separation. I would say there has been an increase over the last few days and use of heavy artillery," he told journalists.
The delay is yet another setback for the struggling peace process. Both sides accuse the other of violating the 18-month-old 'Minsk' ceasefire agreement on a near-daily basis.
On Sunday, Ukrainian military spokesman Andriy Lysenko said rebels had used heavy artillery in a "major" attack in part of the Luhansk region. Meanwhile separatist officials accused Ukrainian troops of firing at a rebel-held residential district in southern Donetsk region, separatist news site DAN reported.
Nevertheless, both sides have said they have withdrawn from Petrovske in Donetsk region and Zolote in Luhansk region - the other two areas listed in the latest de-escalation pact.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which monitors the implementation of the ceasefire, said on Saturday its monitors had witnessed the movement of troops and equipment out of the Petrovske area, but could not yet confirm if a full withdrawal had taken place there.
While limited in geographic scope - the areas are each four kilometers squared - the disengagement agreement is the first time the sides have said they would withdraw light arms. High-caliber weapons are already meant to have been withdrawn to secure holding areas, although the OSCE regularly reports violations on both sides.
In Stanytsa Luhanska, locals appeared skeptical of the success of the withdrawal plan.
"I think the majority disagree with it. We don't believe them, because it always happened that when they had to observe the truce they never did. Why do you think they will respect the demilitarized zone?," resident Galina told Reuters, declining to give her last name.

BEIRUT A powerful Syrian Islamist insurgent group on Sunday pledged allegiance to former al Qaeda branch Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, a statement circulated by rebel officials and reported by a monitoring group said.
The Jund al-Aqsa group said it was trying to settle differences with Ahrar al-Sham, with which it has been fighting for days in the northwestern Idlib province, so as not to weaken rebel fighting against President Bashar al-Assad's government.
Government forces in recent days have captured territory from rebels taking advantage of infighting, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has reported.
On Sunday they made further gains, recapturing the villages of Maan and al-Kabariya, which rebels including Jund al-Aqsa fighters had seized last month.
The Observatory, which also reported Jund al-Aqsa's announcement, said the group was seeking the protection of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham.
Jund al-Aqsa's statement - circulated by rebel officials from other groups and carrying the Jabhat Fateh al-Sham stamp - did not say how pledging allegiance to Jabhat Fateh al-Sham would mend its relationship with Ahrar al-Sham.
The British-based Observatory said the two rebel groups were still fighting late into Sunday evening.
The move appears to formalize Jund al-Aqsa's ties with Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly the Nusra Front, which changed its name in July and said it was breaking from the al Qaeda network founded by Osama bin Laden.
Jund al-Aqsa, which is on the U.S. State Department's list of terrorist groups, has been heavily involved in fighting in the west and north of Syria including around Aleppo in the most recent months of the five-year-old civil war that has killed hundreds of thousands of people.
Syria's Islamist insurgents have eclipsed more moderate and Western-backed nationalist rebel groups in the conflict.
Nusra Front's breaking of ties from al Qaeda appeared aimed at assuaging Syrians who had misgivings about its links with foreign jihadists. Al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri said at the time that the split would help unite Syrian insurgents.

BEIRUT Syrian government forces and their allies recaptured more territory from rebels in Hama province in the west on Sunday, building on advances they have made in the last two days, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.
They seized Maan and al-Kabariya, two villages in rural northern Hama, which the insurgents took control of last month, the British-based monitoring group reported.

BRUSSELS Prosecutors charged a Belgian man, who stabbed two police officers, with attempted terror-related murder and being part of a terrorist group on Thursday and detained his brother.
The man, 43-year-old Belgian Hicham D, stabbed one officer in the neck and another in the stomach and broke the nose of a third. Named by media as Hicham Diop, he was then shot in the leg and taken to hospital.
Belgian media said Diop was a former soldier who may have had a grudge against the police after being hit accidentally by a police car in 2011.
His brother Aboubaker D, a Belgian born in 1970, was detained on Thursday afternoon. A special counter-terror judge will decide on Friday whether he should remain in custody.
Brussels is on high alert after bombings in March killed 32 people at the city's airport and in a subway carriage.

BAGHDAD Iraq has requested an emergency meeting of the United Nations  Security Council to discuss the presence of Turkish troops on its territory as a dispute with Ankara escalates.
Turkey's parliament voted last week to extend the deployment of an estimated 2,000 troops across northern Iraq by a year to combat "terrorist organizations" - a likely reference to Kurdish rebels as well as Islamic State.
Iraq condemned the vote, and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi warned Turkey risked triggering a regional war. On Wednesday, Ankara and Baghdad each summoned the other's ambassador in protest at remarks from the other camp.
"The Iraqi foreign ministry has presented a request for an emergency meeting of the Security Council to discuss the Turkish violation of Iraq's territory and interference in its internal affairs," said a statement on the ministry's website.
Turkey says its military is in Iraq at the invitation of Masoud Barzani, president of the Kurdish regional government, with which Ankara maintains solid ties. Baghdad says no such invitation was ever issued.
Most of the Turkish troops are at a base in Bashiqa, north of Mosul and close to Turkey's border, where they are helping to train Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga and Sunni fighters.
Tensions between Baghdad and Ankara have risen with expectations of an offensive by U.S.-backed Iraqi forces to retake Mosul, the last major Iraqi city under Islamic State control, captured by the militants two years ago.
Turkey has said the campaign will send a wave of refugees over its border, and potentially on to Europe.
Ankara also worries that Baghdad's Shi'ite Muslim-led forces will destabilize Mosul's largely Sunni population and worsen ethnic strife across the region, where there are also populations of Turkmens, ethnic kin of the Turks.
Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim echoed this worry again on Thursday, saying the presence of Ankara's troops in Bashiqa will continue to ensure that the demographics of the region will not change. Iraq's hostile reaction is  "incomprehensible", he added.
However, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu sought to play down the spat over Bashiqa in comments later on Thursday.
"We do not see a serious problem there and we think this  problem will be overcome," he told a news conference with his Italian counterpart in Ankara. "Iraq must leave the rhetoric aside so we can assess how to resolve this subject."
He said around 3,000 local fighters, Arab, Kurdish and Turkmen, were being trained against Islamic State at the camp and they had so far "neutralized" around 750 of the group's militants in the area.

JOHANNESBURG South African President Jacob Zuma faced questions on Thursday over allegations his wealthy business friends influenced political appointments, in the final investigation by an anti-graft chief who has been a thorn in his side.
Public Protector Thuli Madonsela won popular acclaim when her investigation into $16 million of improper state spending on Zuma's private home was upheld in the constitutional court and the president was forced to repay some of the funds.
As part of her final inquiry, Madonsela will quiz Zuma behind closed doors later on Thursday afternoon over accusations the Gupta family played a role in selecting cabinet members and used their relationship with the president to gain favor in terms of government tenders, payments and licenses.
The Guptas deny any wrongdoing and say they have been victims of a "sustained political attack".
"If the report finds serious wrongdoing by the president, it will be extremely damaging and will embolden his opponents inside and outside the ruling party," said Prince Mashele, analyst at the Centre for Politics and Research.
"Madonsela knows this is her final farewell and I don't expect her to be mild. She'll hit this one hard."
Madonsela will release her findings by Oct. 14, the day before her seven-year term comes to an end. Zuma approved parliament's choice of Busisiwe Mkhwebane as the next public protector earlier on Thursday.

THE GUPTAS
The three Gupta brothers moved to South Africa from India at the end of apartheid in the early 1990s and went on to build a business empire that stretches from technology to the media to mining.
They became household names in South Africa after Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said in March they had offered to secure him his boss's job.
Zuma's son, Duduzane, quit as a director of a firm owned by the Guptas in April because of "aspersions" about his family and after large South African banks cut ties with the Guptas.
Opposition parties have called for Zuma's resignation over his links with the Guptas and top members of the ruling African National Congress (ANC) have condemned what they call "state capture" by private interests, without naming the president.
But analysts say there is little appetite in the ANC to remove a second party president in a row, following the recall of Thabo Mbeki in 2008, given the boost such internal instability would give opponents.
Zuma is expected to stand down as ANC leader late next year at party conference before his second and final term as South African president finishes in 2019.
"The public protector's report could be very damaging for Zuma, but a slow, incremental decline is more likely than an unceremonious exit," said political analyst Daniel Silke.
"The top echelons of the ANC will likely wait for a natural retirement as the forces aligned to Zuma begin to switch loyalties to his successor and the ANC divides widen."
Incoming public protector, Mkhwebane, a lawyer who recently held a position at the State Security Agency, was nominated by 60 percent of lawmakers in a vote last month.

LISBON Former Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Guterres thanked the United Nations Security Council for nominating him to be the next Secretary-General on Thursday and vowed to tackle "enormous challenges" in the world affected by various conflicts.
"I have two words to describe what I'm feeling now: gratitude and humility," he said in a short statement in Lisbon, which he repeated in various languages. He also praised the incumbent U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon, 72, of South Korea. Ban will step down at the end of 2016 after serving two terms.
"Humility (is what I feel) about the huge challenges ahead of us, the terrible complexity of the modern world. But it is also humility that is required to serve the most vulnerable, victims of conflicts, of terrorism, rights violations, poverty and injustices of this world," said Guterres, 67.

ANKARA Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Thursday Ankara did not regard a row with Baghdad over Turkey's military presence at the Bashiqa base in northern Iraq as a serious problem and that it could be resolved if Baghdad halts its "rhetoric".
His comments, at a news conference with his Italian counterpart, came after Iraq requested an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the presence of the Turkish troops on its territory.

BEIRUT President Bashar al-Assad said his forces would recapture all of Syria, including Aleppo, in a television interview on Thursday but added he would prefer to do so using local deals and amnesties that would allow rebels to leave for other areas.
According to the transcript of an interview with Denmark's TV 2, he said there were no moderate rebels and that the United States was using the Nusra Front, which changed its name in July and broke allegiance to al Qaeda, as "a card" in Syria's war.
Syria's government, backed by militias from Lebanon and Iraq and by Russia, has already agreed amnesties with rebel fighters in some other areas after long sieges accompanied by intense bombardment, a model some analysts say may be used in Aleppo.
On Wednesday the army said it was reducing air strikes and shelling in Aleppo to alleviate the humanitarian situation. But it also called on all fighters and their families to leave rebel-held parts of the city or face "their inevitable fate".
The intense bombardment of Aleppo during an army offensive that began two weeks ago has included several strikes on hospitals, residents and medical workers there have said, but Assad denied in the interview any knowledge of such attacks.
"We don't have a policy to destroy hospitals or schools or any such facility," he said. "If there's such an attack from the army, it could be by mistake".
He said the United States did not have the will to reach a peace agreement that would involve allowing air strikes against Nusra Front, now called Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, because the group was its only "concrete and effective card in the Syrian arena".
The United States has classified Nusra Front as a terrorist organisation and repeatedly warned other rebel groups not to work with it. Washington blamed the collapse of last month's truce on the Syrian government and Russia.

WASHINGTON Forty-four Afghan troops visiting the United States for military training have gone missing in less than two years, presumably in an effort to live and work illegally in America, Pentagon officials said.
Although the number of disappearances is relatively small -- some 2,200 Afghan troops have received military training in the United States since 2007 -- the incidents raise questions about security and screening procedures for the programs.
They are also potentially embarrassing for U.S. President Barack Obama's administration, which has spent billions of dollars training Afghan troops as Washington seeks to extricate itself from the costly, 15-year-old war. The disclosure could fuel criticism by supporters of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who has accused the Obama administration of failing to properly vet immigrants from Muslim-majority countries and has pledged a much tougher stance if he wins.
While other foreign troops on U.S. military training visits have sometimes run away, a U.S. defense official said that the frequency of Afghan troops going missing was concerning and "out of the ordinary."
Since September alone, eight Afghan troops have left military bases without authorization, Pentagon spokesman Adam Stump told Reuters. He said the total number of Afghan troops who have gone missing since January 2015 is 44, a number that has not previously been disclosed.
"The Defense Department is assessing ways to strengthen eligibility criteria for training in ways that will reduce the likelihood of an individual Afghan willingly absconding from training in the U.S. and going AWOL (absent without leave)," Stump said.
Afghans in the U.S. training program are vetted to ensure they have not participated in human rights abuses and are not affiliated with militant groups before being allowed into the United States, Stump said.
The defense official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added there was no evidence any of those who had absconded had carried out crimes or posed a threat to the United States.
The Afghan army has occasionally been infiltrated by Taliban militants who have carried out attacks on Afghan and U.S. troops, but such incidents have become less frequent due to tougher security measures.
Trump, whose other signature immigration plan is to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, has proposed a temporary ban on Muslims seeking to enter the country, and has said that law enforcement officers should engage in more racial profiling to curb the threat of attacks on American soil.
After Omar Mateen, whose father was born in Afghanistan, killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando in June, Trump said an immigration ban would last until "we are in a position to properly screen these people coming into our country."

BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN TRAINING
Washington has allocated more than $60 billion since 2002 to train and equip Afghan troops, but security remains precarious and the Taliban are estimated to control more territory in Afghanistan than at any time since 2001 when the U.S. invaded.
Earlier this year Obama shelved plans to cut the U.S. force in Afghanistan nearly in half by year's end, opting instead to keep 8,400 troops there through the end of his presidency in January.
The military training program brings troops to the United States from around the world in order to build on military relations and improve capabilities for joint operations.
In some cases, officials said, the Afghan students who went missing were in the United States for elite Army Ranger School and intelligence-gathering training. The officials did not identify the missing troops or their rank.
Even though the troops were in the United States for military training, they were not necessarily always on a military base.
If students under the military program are absent from training for more than 24 hours, they are considered to be "absent without leave" (AWOL) and the Department of Homeland Security is notified.
In one case the Pentagon confirmed that an Afghan student had been detained by Canadian police while attempting to enter Canada from the United States.
It was unclear how many others have been located by U.S. authorities, and the Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Experts said low morale and insufficient training to fight the Taliban could explain the troops leaving, in addition to a dearth of economic opportunities in the impoverished country.
"They face a formidable enemy, with very limited resources and many Afghan troops aren't getting paid on time,” said Michael Kugelman, a South Asia specialist at the Woodrow Wilson Center, a Washington think-tank.

South Korea conducted a security drill in Seoul on Thursday (October 6) to check the country's readiness against possible terror activities amid high tensions on the Korean peninsula.
The drill organized by the country's National Counter-terrorism Centre established in June, rehearsed several hypothetical incidents including a suicide bombing, mass shooting, and taking of hostages at public places.
"Following the new national anti-terrorism system established after the anti-terror law was implemented, we are conducting this anti-terror exercise to check our readiness against terrorism which has been prepared by all branches of government," said Kim Jin-nam, director of the anti-terror center.
About 500 personnel from the police, military, fire department and local government participated in the exercise at the Jamsil Sports Complex.
The South Korean Prime Minister's Office said the drill was the biggest of its kind.
ROME Italian police said on Wednesday they had captured a fugitive Calabrian mafia boss hiding in a secret room in his own home five years after he escaped the clutches of the law during a hospital visit.
The 54-year-old boss, Antonio Pelle, was on the Interior Ministry's list of the country's most dangerous fugitives. He faces a 20-year sentence for drug and arms smuggling, and for being a member of a mafia clan.
A police video of the arrest showed Pelle's head peak out from the top of a large wardrobe in his home in Benestare, a small town on the toe of Italy's geographical boot. As he talks to police, he climbs down and is handcuffed.
"Fifty of us searched the two-storey villa where Pelle had always lived (prior to becoming a fugitive), but it took a very attentive eye to discover his hiding place," police commander Francesco Ratta said in comments broadcast on TV.
Pelle had been silently lying in a niche built behind the wardrobe during the police search until he was discovered, police said. The room contained a mattress, a fan, some bottles of water and cash, the video showed.
First arrested and jailed in 2008, Pelle slipped away from captivity three years later when he was sent to hospital for urgent medical treatment.
Prosecutors said he was the acting head of the Pelle-Vottari crime family, of which six members were murdered in Duisburg, Germany, in 2007 as part of an ongoing feud with a rival clan from the Calabrian town of San Luca.
Over the past two decades the Calabrian mafia, known as the 'Ndrangheta, has become Italy's most powerful and wealthy organized crime group thanks to its role as one of Europe's biggest importers of South American cocaine, investigators say.


RAMALLAH, West Bank Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas left a West Bank hospital on Thursday after undergoing heart function tests which showed  normal results, a doctor said.
He walked out of the hospital, beaming and waving to reporters, before being whisked away in his presidential motorcade.
"Thank God everything is fine, I had the surgery, it was easy and I'm leaving now," said Abbas, who spoke briefly to Palestine TV before leaving hospital.
Abbas, 81, was taken to the facility without prior public announcement earlier in the day. He has long been reported to be suffering from heart problems but Palestinian political officials have never confirmed this.
"The president was hospitalized today for routine tests and we performed a (cardiac) catheterization. The results look normal," Saeed Sarahneh, a senior doctor at Istishari Arab Hospital in the West Bank city of Ramallah, told reporters while Abbas was still at the hospital.
In the procedure, a thin plastic tube is inserted into an artery or vein, and then advances into the heart chambers to diagnose and clear any blockage.
Attending the funeral in Jerusalem on Friday of Israeli statesman Shimon Peres, Abbas showed no outward sign of ill health. At the ceremony, he briefly chatted and shook hands with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Abbas became Palestinian president after the death in 2004 of Yasser Arafat. The Western-backed Abbas has pursued peace talks with Israel but the negotiations broke down in 2014.

MOSCOW A Russian missile corvette left its Black Sea Fleet base of Sevastopol on Thursday and is heading to join a group of Russian warships in the Mediterranean, Russian news agencies cited a fleet spokesman as saying.
The Mirazh, armed with Malakhit cruise missiles, follows another two Black Sea Fleet missile corvettes, The Serpukhov and The Zelyony Dol equipped with Kalibr long-range cruise missiles, which had been due to reach the Mediterranean on Wednesday.



ISTANBUL A bomb attached to a motorbike exploded near a police station in southwest Istanbul on Thursday wounding 10 people, the provincial governor said.
The blast occurred in the Yenibosna neighborhood, several kilometers from Istanbul Ataturk Airport, the country's largest. Television footage showed damaged vehicles, shattered glass and broken windows in the residential area.
Governor Vasip Sahin said all of the wounded were civilians and that investigations into who might be responsible were ongoing. There were no immediate claims of responsibility on Thursday.
Kurdish, leftist and Islamic State militants have all carried out bomb attacks across Turkey in the past.
The last blast in Istanbul was in June, a month before an attempted coup to overthrow President Tayyip Erdogan's government, when 45 people were killed in a triple suicide bombing at the airport. That attack was blamed on Islamic State.
There have been other attacks in the east of the country, including the bombing of a wedding party near the city of Gaziantep in August, when more than 50 people were killed.

MEXICO CITY Hurricane Matthew has killed at least 69 people, the death toll in struggling Haiti alone rising to 65, local officials said, as the storm headed northward on Thursday battering the Bahamas en route to Florida.
Haiti´s civil protection service put the toll in the impoverished Caribbean nation at 23 dead, many killed by falling trees, flying debris and swollen rivers. The interior ministry, a local mayor and other local delegates confirmed 42 other deaths to Reuters across Haiti.
That included a group of 24 people killed in the coastal town of Roche-a-Bateau.
"I've never seen anything like this," said the town's delegate Louis Paul Raphael.
Four people were killed earlier in neighboring Dominican Republic.

THE HAGUE Relatives of victims of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre told an appeals court on Thursday that the Dutch government should be held responsible for failing to protect more of the thousands of Bosnian Muslim men and boys killed there.
They are seeking to expand a 2014 ruling by a lower court that found the Netherlands culpable for the deaths of 300 of the 8,000 men and boys who were killed after leaving a United Nations compound that was run by Dutch peacekeeping troops.
"We think the state should be held liable for a much larger group because there were possibilities to save many more men," lawyer Marco Gerritsen, who represents the Mothers of Srebrenica group, told judges.
The earlier court decision found that the Dutch peacekeepers could have known that the men seeking refuge at the base in the village of Potocari would be murdered if forced to leave.
"In the knowledge that there was a serious risk of genocide men and boys were handed over (by the Dutch) to their killers, and they cooperated with the deportation of the women," said attorney Simon van der Sluijs, who also represents roughly 6,000 of the surviving Srebrenica relatives.
Gerritsen argued that the Dutch were also responsible for the safety of thousands of men who fled into the forests surrounding the Bosnian Muslim enclave -- designated a "safe area" by the U.N. -- to escape execution.
Lawyer for the Dutch state, Bert-Jan Houtzagers, said the lower court had been wrong to find that the Dutch battalion had "effective control" over the compound when it was overrun by Bosnian Serb forces.
"It was a chaotic situation where Bosnian Serbs called the shots and the only thing Dutchbat could do was to try and guide the situation to the best of their abilities," he said.
The Dutch forces did not foresee the later genocide and had been focused on "helping the refugees and guiding the evacuation," he said.
The failure of Dutch soldiers to protect the Muslim men and boys of Srebrenica has left a deep scar in Dutch politics, contributing to the resignation of the Dutch government in 2002.
The 1992-95 Bosnian war, in which at least 100,000 people were killed, was the bloodiest of a series of conflicts that accompanied the break-up of Yugoslavia in the 1990s.
On July 11, 1995, the enclave was overrun by the Bosnian Serb forces lead by commander Ratko Mladic, who is on trial for war crimes at an international court in The Hague.
A ruling was expected on March 14.

UNITED NATIONS Former Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Guterres is poised to be the ninth United Nations Secretary-General and is expected to be formally recommended to the 193-member General Assembly for election by the Security Council on Thursday, diplomats said.
Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin, president of the 15-member council for October, said he hoped the council would unanimously recommend Guterres, who was also the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from June 2005 to December 2015.
Guterres, 67, would replace Ban Ki-moon, 72, of South Korea, who will step down at the end of 2016 after serving two terms. Guterres was prime minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002.
"Today after our sixth straw poll we have a clear favorite and his name is Antonio Guterres," Churkin told reporters with his 14 council colleagues standing behind him on Wednesday.
"We wish Mr. Guterres well in discharging his duties as the Secretary-General of the United Nations for the next five years," Churkin said.
The council has been holding informal secret ballots since July in a bid to reach consensus on a candidate. Members had the choices encourage, discourage or no opinion. Guterres has come out on top of all the polls and on Wednesday received 13 encourage votes and two no opinion votes.
"In the end, there was just a candidate whose experience, vision, and versatility across a range of areas proved compelling," U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power told reporters.
"If we have these trans national threats and we don't have somebody at the helm of the United Nations that can mobilize coalitions, that can make the tools of this institution ... work better for people, that's going to be more pain and more suffering and more dysfunction than we can afford," she said.
Diplomats said one of the no opinion votes was cast by one of the five veto wielding powers, which are Russia, China, the United States, France and Britain.
The Security Council will adopt a resolution, traditionally behind closed doors, recommending that the General Assembly appoint Guterres for a five-year term from Jan. 1, 2017. The resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes to pass.
"We hope it can be done by acclamation," Churkin said.
Thirteen people were nominated in the race to become the next U.N. chief, but three had already withdrawn before Wednesday's secret ballot. In a bid for more transparency in the opaque selection process, the candidates were for the first time able to make election campaign-style pitches to the General Assembly.
When Guterres spoke to the General Assembly in April, he said he was a candidate to become secretary-general because "the best place to address the root cause of human suffering is at the center of the U.N. system." He spoke in English, French and Spanish during the two-hour long town hall meeting.
Guterres, a devout Catholic, spoke about his decade as the U.N. refugee chief as "an extraordinary privilege but a terrible frustration because there was no humanitarian solution for their plight." He said the solution was always political.
He described a U.N. chief as "acting with humility, without arrogance, without giving lessons to anybody, but working as a convener, as a facilitator, as a catalyst and behaving like an honest broker, a bridge builder and a messenger for peace."
Seven of the candidates for secretary-general were women amid a push by civil society groups and a third of the 193 U.N. member states for the first female U.N. chief in the 71-year history of the world body, which has had eight male leaders.
The WomanSG lobby group described the win by Guterres as "a disaster for equal rights and gender equality" and said it was an outrage that it appeared the female candidates were "never seriously considered."
In April, Guterres pledged to present a roadmap for gender parity at all levels of the United Nations if elected.
Britain's U.N. Ambassador Matthew Rycroft paid tribute to all the candidates and in particular the women.
"Although it's high time for a woman ... the most important thing for the UK was the qualities of leadership of this position," he told reporters.
He said Guterres was the person to "provide a convening power and a moral authority at a time when the world is divided on issues, above all like Syria."
The U.N. Director at Human Rights Watch, Louis Charbonneau, said: "Ultimately, the next U.N. secretary-general will be judged on his ability to stand up to the very powers that just selected him, whether on Syria, Yemen, South Sudan, the refugee crisis, climate change or any other problem that comes his way."

SRINAGAR, India Indian soldiers shot dead seven suspected militants who tried to attack two army bases in northern Kashmir on Thursday, police said, prompting anger from Pakistan as a crisis between the two neighbors over the disputed region grows.
The attacks came after India and Pakistan exchanged more gunfire across the frontier in Kashmir overnight, the Indian army said, despite a 2003 ceasefire. The latest round of tensions started in July when protests erupted after Indian forces killed a separatist leader.
Three suspected militants were shot in an orchard near the army base in Kupwara district near the Line of Control, the de facto border that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan, which both claim the Himalayan, Muslim-majority region.
Another four suspected militants were killed after they fired at the Indian troops in Nowgam sector of North Kashmir, said police superintendent Ghulam Jeelani.
India accuses Muslim Pakistan of backing the separatists and helping them infiltrate Indian-ruled Kashmir. Pakistan denies this, saying it only offers moral and diplomatic support to the Kashmiri people in their campaign for self-determination.
Last week India announced its special forces had carried out a strike against militants camped on the Pakistan side of Kashmir and inflicted significant casualties.
Pakistan denied such a strike had taken place and accused India of fabricating the raids for political reasons.
Pakistan's military chief said Pakistan would not hesitate to take respond.
"Any aggression, born out of deliberate intent or even a strategic miscalculation, will not be allowed to go unpunished and will be met with the most befitting response," said General Raheel Sharif, the head of Pakistan's military.
India said it has ample evidence to prove that a strike was conducted but concerns regarding national security will be assessed before releasing any proof.
On Wednesday night, militants from Pakistan unsuccessfully tried to breach the Line of Control at two points in the Nowgam sector and one at Rampur, an Indian army spokesman said.
Another army officer said that when soldiers fired at them, the suspected militants fled back to Pakistan.
The two sides traded artillery fire across the Line of Control in Nowshera, Pallanwala and Mendhar sections overnight, the Indian army said.
Pakistan said India initiated the shelling, which often increases along the Line of Control during periods of tension.

MOSCOW Russia is studying a draft resolution on the conflict in Syria which France submitted to the United Nations Security Council, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a news conference on Thursday.
Speaking alongside visiting French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, Lavrov said Russia would propose its own amendments to the draft resolution and hoped they would be taken into account.
Lavrov also said he had never heard U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry say the Syrian conflict could be resolved by military means.

MOSCOW Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Thursday that advanced S-300 and S-400 surface-to-air missile systems operated by the Russian military in Syria were for purely defensive needs and did not pose a threat to anyone.
Lavrov was speaking at a news conference after meeting French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault.

WASHINGTON/JERUSALEM The United States sharply criticized Israel on Wednesday over  plans to build a new Jewish settlement in the West Bank that it said would damage prospects for peace with the Palestinians and contradicted assurances made to Washington.
The White House and State Department "strongly condemned" Israel's decision to advance a plan that they said would create a new settlement "deep in the West Bank" and undermine a two-state solution.
In unusually harsh words for its Middle Eastern ally, Washington also accused Israel of going back on its word.
"We did receive public assurances from the Israeli government that contradict this announcement," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said at a news briefing. "I guess when we're talking about how good friends treat one another, that's a source of serious concern as well."
U.S. President Barack Obama raised concerns about West Bank settlements when he met Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in New York last month.
A senior U.S. official told reporters afterwards those concerns included the "corrosive effect" settlement activity had during 50 years of occupation on prospects for negotiating a peace deal based on a two-state solution.
The United States contends that the project constitutes the establishment of a new settlement in the West Bank, contrary to assurances by Netanyahu that no new settlements would be built.
Israel regards the planned housing units as part of an existing settlement called Shilo, which is about halfway between the Palestinian seat of government in Ramallah and Nablus farther north.
The Israeli Foreign Ministry said in a statement the new housing units do not constitute a new settlement.
"This housing will be built on state land in the existing settlement of Shilo and will not change its municipal boundary or geographical footprint," the statement said.
It added that Israel remains committed to a two-state solution.
The municipal boundaries of many settlements in the West Bank are extensive, enabling Israel to argue that housing units built near the fringes of those boundaries are not new settlements, but only neighborhoods of exiting ones.
In its tough words on Wednesday, the Obama administration is effectively challenging that practise.
The State Department statement cited Israeli authorities'  retroactive authorization of nearby settlements and the redrawing of local settlement boundaries.
The new settlement would be closer to Jordan than Israel  and link a string of Jewish outposts, dividing the Palestinian region, the statement said.
"It is deeply troubling" that Israel would make this decision shortly after it reached an agreement with Washington on U.S. military aid designed to bolster Israel's security,  State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in the statement.
The United States will give Israel $38 billion in military assistance over the next decade, the largest such aid package in U.S. history, under a landmark agreement signed on Sept. 15.
Toner also noted it was "disheartening" for the decision to come as the world mourned former President Shimon Peres, a passionate proponent of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel.
Earnest attributed the strong U.S. reaction as being driven by the location of the proposed settlement and the timing of the announcement.
"All of that combined would explain why the United States is so disappointed and even sharply critical of this decision announced by the Israeli government," Earnest said.
Israelis have to choose between expanding settlements and a peaceful two-state solution with the Palestinians, Toner said.
"Proceeding with this new settlement is another step toward cementing a one-state reality of perpetual occupation that is fundamentally inconsistent with Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state," Toner said.

JERUSALEM Israel said on Wednesday that new houses it was building in the occupied West Bank did not constitute a new settlement, dismissing a strong U.S. condemnation of project.
"The 98 housing units approved in Shilo (settlement) do not constitute a 'new settlement'. This housing will be built...in the existing settlement of Shilo and will not change its municipal boundary or geographical footprint," a Foreign Ministry statement said.
The United States strongly condemned Israel's plan and the State Department said it would damage prospects for a two-state solution.

MOHAMMEDIA, Morocco Chanting slogans and jokes in local Darija dialect, Moroccan Prime Minister Abdelilah Benkirane knows how to turn on the populist charm as he campaigns for his Islamist party for an election on Friday they seem set to win.
Five years ago, Benkirane's style helped his Justice and Development Party to a sweeping victory after the king gave up some powers to defuse protests for democratic change.
This time, though, the PJD faces a resurgent royal establishment.
Morocco's second parliamentary election is testing a constitutional monarchy where an elected government works with limited powers in the shadow of a royal palace uneasy at sharing authority with popular Islamists.
After a campaign colored by accusations of royal meddling and creeping Islamist extremism, Benkirane's PJD jostles with main rivals, the Authenticy and Modernity or PAM party, who critics portray as palace loyalists seeking to roll back the PJD's influence.
Benkirane has rallied support playing up the PJD's economic reforms and its popular anti-corruption stance, hoping to extend the moderate Islamist party gains and dismissing PAM's claims he harbors a hidden hardline agenda.
"Some people give you 200, 300 or 500 dirhams for your vote. Don't sell your vote. Vote for someone who will defend you," the Islamist leader told supporters at a rally in the working-class, industrial town of Mohammedia.
Whereas Tunisia, Libya and Egypt toppled long-standing rulers with uprisings five years ago that ushered Islamist parties into power, Morocco's king eased tensions with a combination of limited reforms, higher spending and tougher security.
The North African kingdom presents itself as a model for economic stability and gradual reform in a region where violence and instability is more the norm. Morocco's Islamists have been standard-bearers for co-existence rather than rebellion.
Other groups more harsh in criticizing the king, especially the main opposition, Islamist Justice and Spirituality party, and leftist organizations, boycott elections because the king retains most powers.
But analysts said defeats for Tunisia's Islamist Ennahda party and the overthrow of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood may tempt Morocco royalists to push back against PJD where the palace once ceded to Islamists as an escape value for tensions in the past.
"The regime used the PJD in 2011 to stifle the protests," said Omar Bendorou, constitutional expert in Rabat University. "Now some think the party could be a threat if it maintains its grip on different offices."

ECONOMIC REFORMS, TESTY TIES
Benkirane's PJD-led coalition has been fiscally sound, pushing reforms in public finances. It cut the budget deficit, overhauled a cumbersome subsidy system and froze public sector jobs -- all praised by international lenders.
Under Morocco's election system, though, no one party can win an outright majority, forcing winners into negotiations to form coalition governments and limiting political influence.
The premier is chosen from the winning party. But the king heads a judiciary council, the security apparatus, and the council of ministers that must approve laws. Some key posts such as the interior ministry are also crown-appointed technocrats.
Just before the election, Benkirane's justice minister accused the technocrat interior minister of trying to control vote preparations, hinting at potential fraud. PJD campaigners also said the ministry was ordering local officials under its control to promote PAM in their neighborhoods.
The interior ministry denied any attempts to influence elections and royal officials say the king keeps his distance from all political parties.
Benkirane himself has been cautious, playing down any friction with the king, if not with PAM, whose former founder is a close friend of the king and now works as a palace advisor.
"I never had a dispute with his majesty, he is my boss. In my Islamic culture, I must obey him by the Koran," Benkirane told Reuters in an interview. "But it does not mean that we always agree from the start."
Ilyass El-Omari, PAM's general secretary, rejected claims his party acts on behalf of the palace. Instead he has promised to review the PJD's economic program, especially a contested pension scheme overhaul. 
Still, PAM had already gotten more support in last year's municipal elections, winning more local seats than PJD, even if the Islamists took the capital and major cities like Casablanca and Tangier for the first time since its 2011 victory.
"2011 was a different time," said Geoff Porter at North Africa Risk Consulting. "The PJD is still likely to win, but what it will be able to do is limited by a reinvigorated Makhzen, as the palace and its coterie are known."

BERLIN Politicians across Germany's political spectrum condemned the leader of the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD) party after she was reported comparing societies including migrants to compost heaps.
Frauke Petry, whose party has made big regional gains this year and is expected to win federal parliamentary seats next year, made the comments in a speech in Stuttgart on Monday, according to the online edition of the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.
Pouring scorn in the idea that migrants made societies more diverse, she said: "What should we make of the campaign 'Germany is Colourful'?  A compost heap is colourful, too," according to the report.
No one at Petry's office was available to comment on the quotes or confirm she said them.
Conservatives, Social Democrats and Greens - whose parties have all been shaken by the AfD's rise - united to condemn the comments.
"The business model of these people is to scare people," Conservative Thomas Strobl, interior minister of the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, told FAZ.net, calling the comments "revolting".
"Frau Petry's verbal baiting has reached a new level. People are systematically demeaned and played off against each other," said Social Democrat Leni Breymaier.
The AfD was created in 2013 as an anti-euro party but Petry ousted the AfD's founder and shifted the party to the right, playing to fears about migration. Since the arrival of about 900,000 refugees in Germany last year, it has made big gains and is now represented in 10 of Germany's 16 states.
Most of Merkel's conservatives rule out the possibility of forming an alliance with the AfD. However, a handful have recently backed the idea. Conservative Hermann Winkler told Super Illu magazine the conservatives should contemplate such a coalition to avoid "heading towards a left Republic".
An INSA poll this week showed support for the AfD down half a percentage point from last week at 15 percent but still up around 9 points from a year ago.

MOSCOW Russia supports the idea voiced by U.N. Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura of escorting ex-Nusra fighters out of Aleppo, TASS news agency quoted a Russian presidential envoy for the Middle East and Africa as saying on Thursday.
"It's high time," TASS quoted Mikhail Bogdanov as saying in reference to Mistura's proposal.

MOSCOW President Vladimir Putin will visit Paris on Oct. 19 to discuss the situation in Syria and Ukraine with his French counterpart Francois Hollande, Russian news agencies quoted Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov as saying on Thursday.
Russia will do everything it can to bring the situation in Syria back to normal, Lavrov said, adding that Moscow was ready to discuss specific French proposals on Syria, the agencies reported.

MUMBAI Police in India said they arrested 70 call-centre workers on Wednesday on suspicion of tricking American citizens into sending them money by posing as U.S. tax officials.
A total of 772 workers were detained earlier on Wednesday in raids on nine call centers in a Mumbai suburb, a senior police official told Reuters. Seventy were placed under formal arrest, 630 were released pending questioning over the coming days, and 72 were freed without further investigation.
"The motive was earning money," said Parag Manere, a deputy commissioner of police. "They were running an illegal process, posing themselves as officers of the (U.S.) Internal Revenue Service."
The police official did not identify the company where the call center workers were employed, or any of the main players involved in the alleged scam. He also declined comment on whether Mumbai police were investigating in conjunction with U.S. authorities, or comment on what prompted the inquiry.
Manere said the alleged scammers asked Americans to buy prepaid cash cards in order to settle outstanding tax debts and also used the threat of arrest against people who did not pay up.
Last year, a Pennsylvania man who helped coordinate a fraud in which India-based callers preyed on vulnerable Americans by pretending to be U.S. government agents was sentenced to 14-1/2 years in prison.
India is home to a vast number of back office operations for North American and European companies. Thousands of call centers in India provide back office services to these firms, processing everything from utility payments to credit card bills.
While such business arrangements help Western companies cut costs, there have been frequent allegations of security breaches and improper trading of consumers' account details and other commercial information for profit.

BANGUI Eleven people were killed in clashes in Central African Republic's capital this week set off by the murder of an army officer, the country's United Nation's peacekeeping mission said on Thursday.
Fighting erupted in Bangui's PK5 neighborhood, a Muslim enclave in the majority Christian nation's capital, after Commander Marcel Mombeka, a former aide to ex-President Catherine Samba-Panza, was shot dead there in his car on Tuesday.
Central African Republic has been plagued by inter-religious violence since 2013 when mainly Muslim Seleka fighters seized power, prompting reprisals from Christian militias, known as anti-balaka.
"At this stage we think (the victims) are all civilians," said U.N. mission spokesman Herve Verhoosel, excluding the army officer who was killed first. Fourteen people are still missing and another 14 were wounded.
Fighting between armed groups also killed at least six civilians in a north-western province last week, where unidentified assailants fired on U.N. peacekeepers, injuring one of them, Verhoosel said.
Despite a February election widely touted as a step toward reconciliation, rebels and militia fighters still stalk most of the country outside the capital, and clashes are frequent.
This week's fighting is a setback for the PK5 neighborhood, which has been mostly peaceful since Pope Francis visited in November and urged an end to the cycle of violence. Previously, anti-balaka fighters had laid siege to the area and prevented Muslims from leaving.

DUBAI Iran's powerful Revolutionary Guards (IRGC) warned Saudi naval vessels taking part in military exercises in the Gulf on Wednesday not to get close to Iranian waters, in a sign of heightened tensions between the two regional rivals.
Saudi Arabia began naval war games including live fire exercises on Tuesday in the Gulf and Strait of Hormuz, the world's most important oil route.
Tehran and Riyadh are fighting several proxy wars in the Middle East, including in Syria and Yemen, but both have been cautious about direct military confrontation.
"The Revolutionary Guards naval forces believe this war game is mainly to create tension and destabilize the Persian Gulf," the IRGC said in a statement published on Tasnim news agency.
About 17 million barrels per day, or about 30 percent of all seaborne-traded oil, passed through the Strait of Hormuz in 2013, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
The United States, the kingdom's leading non-Arab ally, said in August and September that IRGC vessels "harassed" U.S. warships several times in the Gulf in incidents that Washington described as "unsafe and unprofessional."

DIYARBAKIR, Turkey A 15-year-old Syrian boy was killed and two men were wounded when Turkish soldiers opened fire on them as they tried to cross the border into Turkey, security sources said on Thursday.
Turkish soldiers fired on the three Syrians on Wednesday evening after issuing several warnings as they crossed the border near the Syrian town of ad Darbasiyah into the Kiziltepe district of Turkey's Mardin province, the sources said.
The incident occurred as Turkey tightens security at the border. It aims to completely seal off the 911-km (566-mile) frontier by next spring with the construction of a concrete wall topped with razor wire.
Officials have said the wall aims to stop illegal migration from Syria into Turkey, which already hosts nearly 3 million Syrian refugees who have fled the conflict there.

PARIS/MOSCOW/BEIRUT France is to launch a new push for United Nations backing for a ceasefire in Syria that would allow aid into the city of Aleppo after some of the heaviest bombing of the war.
As diplomatic efforts resumed, the Syrian military said army commanders had decided to scale back air strikes and shelling in Aleppo to alleviate the humanitarian situation there.
It said civilians in rebel-held eastern Aleppo were being used as human shields and a reduced level of bombardment would allow people to leave for safer areas.
Intense Syrian and Russian bombing of rebel-held areas of the northern city of Aleppo followed the collapse last month of a ceasefire brokered by Moscow and Washington, which backs some rebel groups. The United States broke off talks with Russia on Monday, accusing it of breaking its commitments.
France said Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault would travel to Russia and the United States on Thursday and Friday to try to persuade both sides to adopt a Security Council resolution to impose a new truce.
Ayrault has accused Syria, backed by Russia and Iran, of war crimes as part of an "all-out war" on its people. Damascus rejects the accusation, saying it is only fighting terrorists.
Speaking to French television channel LCI, Ayrault said: "If you're complicit in war crimes then one day you will be held accountable, including legally. I think with the Russians you have to speak the truth and not try to please them."
The former prime minister said he would also ask Washington to be "more efficient and engaged" and not allow a laissez-faire attitude to take over just because presidential elections were approaching in November.

"ALL THAT'S LEFT"
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry discussed Syria by telephone on Wednesday, but no details emerged. The Russian Foreign Ministry confirmed that Lavrov would meet Ayrault in Moscow on Thursday.
The two-week-old Russian-backed Syrian government offensive aims to capture eastern Aleppo and crush the last urban stronghold of a revolt against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that began in 2011.
Half of the estimated 275,000 Syrians besieged in the rebel-held eastern part of the city want to leave, the United Nations said, with food supplies running short and people driven to burning plastic for fuel.
Mothers were reportedly tying ropes around their stomachs or drinking large amounts of water to reduce the feeling of hunger and prioritise food for their children, the U.N. Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in Geneva.
The Security Council began negotiations on Monday on a French and Spanish draft resolution that urges Russia and the United States to ensure an immediate truce in Aleppo and to "put an end to all military flights over the city".
"This trip is in the framework of efforts by France to get a resolution adopted at the U.N. Security Council opening the path for a ceasefire in Aleppo and aid access for populations that need it so much," the French foreign ministry said.
Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said on Monday that Moscow was engaged in discussions on the draft text even if he was not especially enthusiastic about its language.
The draft text, seen by Reuters, urges Russia and the United States "to ensure the immediate implementation of the cessation of hostilities, starting with Aleppo, and, to that effect, to put an end to all military flights over the city."
The draft also asks U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon to propose options for U.N.-supervised monitoring of a truce and threatens to "take further measures" in the event of non-compliance by "any party to the Syrian domestic conflict".
A senior Security Council diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: "In the experts' negotiations they (Russia) have opposed every single dot and comma of the resolution."
French officials have said that if Moscow were to oppose the resolution they would be ready to put it forward anyway to force Moscow into a veto, underscoring its complicity with the Syrian government.
"It's all that's left," said a French diplomatic source. "We're not fools. The Russians aren't going to begin respecting human rights from one day to the next, but it's all we have to put pressure on them."

GULF STATES
Ayrault said in the television interview that the situation was unacceptable. "It is deeply shocking and shameful," he said. "France will not close its eyes and do nothing. It's cynicism that fools nobody."
The collapse of the latest Syria ceasefire has heightened the possibility that Gulf states including Saudi Arabia and Qatar - backers of Syrian rebels - might arm the opposition with shoulder-fired missiles to defend themselves against Syrian and Russian warplanes, U.S. officials have said.
Qatar's foreign minister said outside powers need to act fast to protect Syrians because foreign military backing for the government is "changing the equation" of the war.
A United Nations expert said that analysis of satellite imagery of a deadly and disputed attack on an aid convoy in Syria last month showed that it was an air strike.
Some 20 people were killed in the attack on the U.N. and Syrian Arab Red Crescent convoy at Urem Al-Kubra near Aleppo.
The United States blamed two Russian warplanes which it said were in the skies above the area at the time of the incident. Moscow denies this and says the convoy caught fire.
"With our analysis we determined it was an air strike and I think multiple other sources have said that as well," Lars Bromley, research adviser at UNOSAT, told a news briefing.
In northern Syria, rebels were expecting stiff resistance from Islamic State in their attempt to capture a village that is of great symbolic significance to the jihadists, a rebel commander said.
With Turkish backing, rebels fighting under the Free Syrian Army banner have advanced to within a few kilometres (miles) of Dabiq, the site of an apocalyptic prophecy central to the militant group's ideology.

KAPITAN ANDREEVO, Bulgaria The European Union launched its common border guard on Thursday, hoping it will help keep people away from a bloc that is still struggling with political aftershocks from an uncontrolled influx of refugees and migrants last year.
Overwhelmed by the arrival of some 1.3 million people last year, the EU has increasingly focused on sealing its external borders. The new force is designed as a rapid reaction force to be deployed in any place seeing a sharp increase in immigration.
"The establishment of the agency is a symbol of the EU, of a Europe that is able to deliver, that is proving its efficiency in addressing the migration and security challenges we are faced with," EU Migration Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos said at the opening ceremony held on the Turkish-Bulgarian border.
The influx triggered bitter disputes among EU states and, to discourage more arrivals, the bloc has taken an increasingly tough stance on labor migrants and people who cross into Europe irregularly, saying they will be sent back.
"The door is open for the ones who are eligible for international protection. And closed to the ones who want to cross our borders illegally," Avramopoulos said. "We have to focus on returns policy."
While people who reach Europe via Greece from Turkey are mostly Syrians fleeing a war and hence are eligible for asylum in Europe, most of those who get to Italy from the Libyan coast are seeking better living conditions than in their impoverished African countries.
They come from Nigeria, Eritrea, Guinea, Gambia, Sudan, Ivory Coast or Somalia. The EU wants to send the vast majority of these back since they are not considered to be in fear of their lives.
The new body, built on the basis of the bloc's current Frontex border agency, will have 1,000 staff, will be able to purchase its own equipment and deploy at short notice.
It is supposed to have a reserve pool of 1,500 border guards designated by member states for that, though in the past EU capitals have often been slow in responding to Frontex calls.
Arrivals in Greece, the main gateway to Europe last year, have dropped sharply now. But figures for Italy are the same as in 2015 and smaller groups also seek their way through the land border between Turkey and Bulgaria.
The new agency will have some 120 coast guard officers at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, where Sofia has built a fence that has cut the arrivals by a third this year to 12,500 people.
Brussels pledged 160 million euros ($179.02 million) to Sofia to help the Balkan country protect its border with Turkey. 
($1 = 0.8937 euros)

BAGHDAD Iraq has requested an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council to discuss Turkey's military presence on its soil, state television said on Thursday, as a dispute with Ankara over the troops escalated.
Turkey's parliament voted last week to extend the deployment of an estimated 2,000 troops across northern Iraq by a year to combat "terrorist organizations" - a likely reference to Kurdish rebels as well as Islamic State.
Iraq condemned the vote, and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi warned Turkey risked triggering a regional war. On Wednesday, Ankara and Baghdad summoned the other's ambassadors in protest at remarks from the other's camp.
In a statement cited by state television on Thursday, Iraqi foreign ministry called the troops' presence a "violation".
Turkey says its military is in Iraq at the invitation of Masoud Barzani, president of the Kurdish regional government, with which Ankara maintains solid ties. Baghdad says no such invitation was ever issued.
Most of the Turkish troops are at a base in Bashiqa, north of Mosul and close to Turkey's border, where they are helping to train Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga and Sunni fighters.

MOGADISHU The Somali Islamist group al Shabaab said it had carried out an attack on Thursday in northeast Kenya, near the border with Somalia, in which six people were killed.
"We are behind the Mandera attack in which we killed six Christians," Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, al Shabaab’s military operations spokesman, told Reuters, adding they had also hit a police vehicle using a roadside bomb.


KUALA LUMPUR A Malaysian court on Thursday dismissed a case against nine Australians arrested for stripping down to their swim wear at last Sunday's Malaysian Formula One Grand Prix.
Photos and videos of the men drinking beer from their shoes while wearing swimming trunks printed with the Malaysian flag prompted an outcry on social media and in the Malaysian press, with one official deeming it an "indecent act".
The men had initially pleaded guilty to a public nuisance offense, but judge Harith Sham Mohamed Yasin of the Sepang Sessions Court dismissed the charge with a stern warning.
Stripping down in public at an international event had "provoked the sensitivities of Malaysians" and the symbols of the Malaysian national flag represented not only its people but also Islam, Harith said.
"Let this serve as a reminder to all of you to learn about our local cultures and customs," he said. "What is perfectly acceptable in your country is not necessarily acceptable in other countries."
Defense counsel Muhammad Shafee Abdullah had argued in mitigation that some of the nine were part-time beach lifesavers and that stripping down to their swimming trunks was "second nature" to them.
One of the men, Thomas Whitworth, 28, also read out a letter of apology on behalf of the group.
"We are remorseful of our actions on that day. We had no idea that our conduct would be deemed to be inappropriate, crass or even downright offensive to the citizens of this country," he said.
The group had been celebrating after Australian Daniel Ricciardo claimed his maiden Formula One win of the season, imitating the driver's famous "shoey" maneuver by drinking from their footwear.
Last year, four Western tourists were fined and deported from Malaysia after posing naked on Mount Kinabalu in Sabah, angering locals who consider the mountain sacred.

Hurricane Matthew was pounding portions of Central Bahamas early on Thursday and was expected to intensify as it approaches Florida, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.
The Category 3 hurricane was about 295 miles (480 km) southwest of West Palm Beach, Florida with a maximum sustained winds of 115 mph (185 kph), the center said in an advisory.
Matthew was expected to become a Category 4 hurricane as it approached Florida, the center said.

BOGOTA Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos and opposition rival Alvaro Uribe met on Wednesday in a bid to resolve differences over a peace deal with Marxist FARC rebels that was unexpectedly rejected in a plebiscite, leaving the country in limbo.
The two expressed willingness to seek an end to the 52-year war that has killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions more.
Sunday's shock referendum result, which confounded pollsters and was a political disaster for Santos, plunged the country into uncertainty over the future of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) rebels, who had been expected to disarm once the deal was passed by voters.
After more than three hours of talks, former President Uribe emphasized the need for "adjustments and proposals" to ensure the deal includes all Colombians.
Without giving any concrete proposals, Uribe, 64, said Santos had shown he was disposed to changes.
Uribe, a former lawyer and cattle rancher, opposed Santos' peace talks from the start and said the final deal, which was reached in August after four years of painstaking negotiations in Havana, gave too many concessions to the rebels.
He spearheaded the "no" campaign, urging Colombians not to approve the accord, which would have given the FARC guaranteed congressional seats and immunity from traditional jail sentences. "No" carried the day by less than half a percentage point.
"We identified that many of their worries come from points that need clarification or precisions. Today we began to work with them to firm up those points and resolve their doubts," Santos said in a brief statement.
The future of the deal seems to hang on whether the FARC will accept tougher conditions for demobilization, perhaps combined with a softening of Uribe's hard-line demands.
Santos once served in Uribe's cabinet, but the two have not met since late 2010.
The government has said the decision to re-open talks lies with rebel leadership.
Government negotiators are in Havana to confer with guerrilla commanders who have said they will remain "faithful" to the accord.
Thousands, many wearing white, marched in cities across the country in support of the deal on Wednesday. Members of Santos' cabinet joined marchers in Bogota's main square.
A senior U.S. State Department official said both sides are committed to dialogue.
"They have made it clear they want the peace process to continue and they want to negotiate a settlement," the official, who met with both sides, told reporters.

BEIRUT Syria's army has said that anybody who remains in the city of Aleppo after offering those who wish to leave an opportunity to do so would face their "inevitable fate".
A statement issued late on Wednesday said the army had cut off insurgents' supply lines into the northern city and that it had accurate information about the location of all their positions and arms stores. It urged all fighters there to lay down their arms and leave.
Earlier on Wednesday, the army said it was reducing its air strikes and shelling of rebel-held eastern Aleppo to alleviate the humanitarian situation and allow people to depart for safer areas if they wanted to do so.
The army, backed by Shi'ite militias from Iraq and Lebanon, as well as Russia's air force, began an offensive against eastern Aleppo on Sept. 19 after the collapse of a week-long truce. The offensive began with one of the war's most intense bombardments.
The scale of destruction in Aleppo since the offensive began has prompted mounting international concern and caused the United States to break talks with Russia on attempting to renew a ceasefire.
The army and its allies have made some territorial gains in the northern part of Aleppo since the offensive began and have also opened fronts in the city center and in the south.

MANILA Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has been rated "very good" in an opinion poll on his first 90 days in office, which has been defined largely by his deadly war on drugs and vitriol against Western leaders.
Only 11 percent of 1,200 Filipinos surveyed by the Social Weather Stations (SWS) agency said they were dissatisfied with his performance. That gave Duterte a net satisfaction rating of 64 percent, getting him off to a better start than predecessors Benigno Aquino, Joseph Estrada and Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, but short of the 66 percent achieved by Fidel Ramos in 1992.
The rating, announced on Thursday, was calculated by deducting the 11 percent from the 76 percent of respondents who said they were satisfied with Duterte's presidency, then rounding it off. Thirteen percent were undecided.
The SWS survey did not ask respondents to give a reason for the rating. It was conducted in face-to-face interviews held from Sept. 24-27, after Duterte had a spat with President Barack Obama over criticism of his anti-dugs campaign but before he  said he was seeking new alliances with China and Russia.
A survey by Pulse Asia, another polling agency, less than a month after he took office on June 30 said Duterte had a record 91 percent trust rating. The two polls are not comparable.
Duterte won the May 9 election by a substantial margin after promising to expand a ruthless anti-crime campaign he started while mayor of Davao City, which had earned him nicknames like "the Punisher" and "Duterte Harry".
Political analyst Nelson Navarro said the SWS survey suggested Filipinos felt safer because Duterte had followed through with his promised war on crime and drugs, in which over 3,400 people have been killed.
He said Duterte's abrasive style and his sometimes profane outbursts against the United States, European Union and United Nations were not discrediting him either, and supporters would rally in his defense amid criticism at home and abroad.
"This is not going to be good manners and right conduct. What you see here is exactly what you get. His tough stance has gained him popularity across the Philippines," Navarro said.
"Everyone likes to dump on President Duterte for the extra-judicial killings but ... there is a kind of backlash on the perception of the West."
The SWS poll considers a net approval rating of over 70 percent as "excellent" and 50-69 percent as "very good".

KUALA LUMPUR Malaysia's attorney-general's office said on Thursday it had yet to receive any request for additional assistance from Switzerland in probing state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB).
The office said in a short statement that it remained committed to international cooperation and "will appropriately consider" such a request once received through diplomatic channels and in line with local laws.
Switzerland's Office of the Attorney General said on Wednesday it was seeking further help from Malaysia in its investigation.


SAO PAULO Brazil's federal police have requested formal corruption charges against former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in a case involving contracts obtained by building and engineering conglomerate Odebrecht [ODBES.UL] in Angola, a source said on Wednesday.
The source, who asked not to be identified because of the sensitive nature of the information, said that Lula was among 10 people that police have requested be charged in a document sent by police to prosecutors.
Under Brazilian law, only prosecutors can formally charge someone after a police investigation and those charges must then be approved by a judge.
Lula has already been charged twice in connection to a massive anti-corruption investigation centered on state oil company Petrobras and will stand trial before anti-corruption judge Sergio Moro. The trial date has not been set.
In an emailed statement, lawyers representing Lula "repudiated" on Wednesday that the police document was leaked.
They said they asked police for a copy of the document, but were told it was already in the hands of federal prosecutors. The lawyers said their request to see the document was denied by the prosecutors.
"It's strange, to say the least, that the day after the police inquiry was referred to prosecutors, the press obtained it first ... and at the same time it is denied to the defense," read the statement from the Sao Paulo-based Teixeira, Martins & Advogados firm that represents the Lula family.
Prosecutors did not immediately respond to after-hours requests for comment.

OSLO/WASHINGTON A global agreement to combat climate change will take force after support from European nations sent the accord across an important threshold on Wednesday, prompting U.S. President Barack Obama to hail it as a "historic day" for protecting the planet.
European nations, Canada, Bolivia and Nepal raised backing for the 2015 Paris Agreement to countries representing 56.87 percent of world greenhouse gas emissions, above the 55 percent needed for implementation, a United Nations website showed.
The deal will formally start in 30 days on Nov. 4, four days before the U.S. presidential election in which Republican Donald Trump opposes the accord and Democrat Hillary Clinton strongly supports it.
China and the United States joined up last month in a joint step by the world's top emitters.
Obama called Wednesday "a historic day in the fight to protect our planet for future generations" and he told reporters on the White House Rose Garden: "If we follow through on the commitments that this Paris agreement embodies, history may well judge it as a turning point for our planet."
Germany, France, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, Portugal and Malta - European Union nations which have completed domestic ratification and account for about four percent of emissions - formally signed up on Wednesday.
In total, 73 countries out of 195 have ratified the agreement, according to the U.N. website.
"Great job!" tweeted European Climate Commissioner Miguel Arias Canete.
The Europeans brought forward a formal submission of documents to the United Nations from a ceremony planned on Friday, fearing that other nations might ratify and trigger entry into force without them.
"We didn't want to be upstaged," an EU diplomat said.
Many praised the rapid ratification of an agreement meant to cut global greenhouse gas emissions, mainly from burning fossil fuels, to limit floods, droughts, more powerful storms and rising ocean levels.
"What once seemed unthinkable is now unstoppable," U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement.
But all said more work was needed.
"It is no exaggeration to say we are in a race against time," said Thoriq Ibrahim, Environment Minister for the Maldives and Chair of the Alliance of Small Island States which fears the impact of rising sea levels.
By contrast, it took eight years for the previous U.N. climate deal, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, to gain enough backing to take effect. It obliged only rich nations to cut emissions and the United States stayed out of it.
Opposition continues in the Republican-controlled U.S. Congress to Democrat Obama's climate change policies.
"The Paris climate deal would be disastrous for the American economy," said House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican.
By contrast, Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever and Chairman of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, said ratification showed that a shift to a low-carbon economy is "urgent, inevitable, and accelerating faster than we ever believed possible".
Still, current national pledges for cuts in emissions are insufficient to achieve a Paris goal of limiting a rise in world temperatures to "well below" two degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial times.
U.N. studies project that average world temperatures are set to rise by 3 degrees (5.4 Fahrenheit) or more by 2100, based on current trends. And this year is expected to prove the warmest since records began in the 19th century, beating 2015.

WASHINGTON The United States and more than 40 other countries issued a declaration on Wednesday laying out principles they said should govern the export and use of armed drones to ensure they do not cause instability or help terrorism and organized crime.
Many U.S. allies such as Britain, Germany and Australia were among the countries that signed the declaration released by the U.S. State Department.
France, Israel, Brazil, Russia and China, among other countries, did not sign the "Joint Declaration for the Export and Subsequent Use of Armed or Strike-Enabled Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)."
"Recognizing that misuse of armed or strike-enabled UAVs could fuel conflict and instability, and facilitate terrorism and organized crime, the international community must take appropriate transparency measures to ensure the responsible export and subsequent use of these systems," the declaration said.
It said international laws on armed conflict and human rights should apply to the use of armed drones, and exports should be consistent with existing multilateral export control and nonproliferation regimes.
The United States regularly uses drones to attack Islamic State, al Qaeda and other militant groups in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries.
The U.S. military's drone program has expanded far beyond specific strikes to become an everyday part of its war machine. Drones fired more weapons than conventional warplanes in Afghanistan last year and the ratio is rising, U.S. Air Force data show.

MOSCOW Russia further curtailed its cooperation with the United States in nuclear energy on Wednesday, suspending a research agreement and terminating one on uranium conversion, two days after the Kremlin shelved a plutonium pact with Washington.
The Russian government said that as counter-measures to the U.S. sanctions imposed on Russia over Ukraine, it was putting aside a nuclear and energy-related research pact with the United States.
It also said it was terminating for the same reasons an agreement between its nuclear corporation Rosatom and the U.S. Department of Energy on feasibility studies into conversion of Russian research reactors to low-enriched uranium.
On Monday, President Vladimir Putin suspended a treaty with Washington on cleaning up weapons grade plutonium, signaling he is willing to use nuclear disarmament as a new bargaining chip in disputes with the United States over Ukraine and Syria.
"The regular renewal of sanctions against Russia, which include the suspension of Russian-American cooperation in the field of nuclear energy demands the adoption of countermeasures against the U.S. side," the Russian government said on its website.
In Washington, a State Department spokesman said the United States had not received an official notification from Russia although he had seen media reports of the suspension of the research agreement.
"If they're accurate, we would regret the Russian decision to unilaterally suspend cooperation on what we believe is a very important issue that's in the interest of both of our countries," spokesman Mark Toner said at a daily news briefing.

"UNFRIENDLY ACTS"
The Russian Foreign Ministry said the decisions were taken in response to "unfriendly acts" by Washington. They came two days after Washington said it was suspending talks with Russia on trying to end the violence in Syria.
The agreement on co-operation in nuclear and energy-related scientific research, signed in 2013, provided the legal framework necessary to expand work between U.S. and Russian nuclear research laboratories and institutes in nuclear technology and nonproliferation, among others.
The uranium agreement, signed in 2010, provided for feasibility studies into the conversion of six Russian research reactors from dangerous highly enriched uranium to more secure low enriched uranium.
"We can no longer trust Washington in such a sensitive area as the modernization and security of Russian nuclear facilities," the Russian Foreign Ministry said.
It said that should Russia decide on the feasibility of the conversion of any research reactors to low-enriched uranium, it will carry the work itself. But it warned the conversion may not be "an end in itself."
"In some cases, including in the production of medical isotopes, highly enriched uranium is the most effective and renouncing its would be technically and economically inexpedient," the ministry said.
The West imposed economic sanctions on Russia over its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea peninsula in 2014, followed by a pro-Russian insurrection in the east of the country. The breakdown of a ceasefire in Syria, where Russia backs government forces and the West supports rebel groups, has added to tensions.

BRASILIA Negotiations on leniency deals between the Brazilian government and 12 companies blacklisted in the Petrobras corruption scandal have been put on hold until prosecutors conclude plea bargains with executives, Brazil's anti-corruption minister told Reuters.
Transparency Minister Torquato Jardim said he was keen to get the construction firms back to work on government contracts once they have paid fines, but prosecutors must first conclude Brazil's biggest corruption investigation.
The blacklisted companies employ 90,000 engineers and technical staff, and have contracts with hundreds of suppliers. The government wants to lift the freezes as they have put tens of thousands of people out of work and hit gross domestic product during Brazil's worst recession since the 1930s.
The Operation Car Wash probe into political kickbacks at state oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA, as Petrobras is formally known, is being led by a taskforce from the southern city of Curitiba.
It has led to the arrest of dozens of politicians and executives at some of Brazil's biggest construction firms, including Latin America's largest engineering conglomerate Odebrecht, which is reportedly negotiating a plea bargain.
Jardim's ministry, formerly known as the Comptroller General's office, must decide whether the companies should be barred from bidding for public works for up to five years.
Firms can be taken off the blacklist if they admit guilt, provide investigators with information and repay graft money.
"The prosecutors asked us to put our leniency agreements on hold so they would not interfere with their negotiations with the companies," Jardim said in an interview on Tuesday. "The priority is to wrap up Operation Car Wash first."
So far, three engineering firms have been banned for at least two years after the government rejected their leniency requests. Those companies are Mendes Junior, IESA Oil & Gas and the Brazilian unit of Swedish construction company Skanska AB, the world's No. 5 construction firm.
Skanska has challenged the government's decision.
Jardim said he decided to reject a fourth company's request for leniency because it was not cooperating, while two others have provided new documents. He declined to name the companies.
Jardim said there was no expected date for the Curitiba taskforce to wrap up its two-year investigation that landed dozens of executives in jail or court and shaken the country's political establishment.
Newspaper Valor Economico reported that the Odebrecht group is close to reaching a plea deal with prosecutors that includes a fine of 7 billion reais ($2.2 billion).
That agreement is expected to provide investigators with some of the most revealing testimony yet about the vast corruption scheme, which police said could implicate as many as 200 politicians thought to have received kickbacks from Odebrecht, including members of President Michel Temer's party.
Temer's government will not interfere with the corruption investigation, Jardim said, even though there is concern that Brazil's top construction and engineering companies remain blacklisted at a time when the economy desperately needs them.
"There will be no amnesty, no forgiveness, and they will all have to pay the fines established by law," Jardim said. "But the companies must be reinserted in the market for their technical expertise and the people they employ."
The only leniency deal reached to date to avoid prosecution for corruption related to contracts with Petrobras was a $328.2 million settlement with Dutch oil-ship leaser SBM Offshore NV, but a federal prosecutor review board rejected it.
Jardim said the board's ruling was wrong and he expects approval will come eventually.
That will allow Brazil to collect an additional $100 million from the settlement paid by SBM in the Netherlands, as allowed under the OECD anti-corruption treaty because the alleged bribery took place in Brazil, he said.

ROME More than 5,000 migrants were saved on Tuesday and Wednesday off the Libyan coast and 28 bodies recovered, bringing the total number of people rescued this week to more than 11,000, Italy's coast guard said.
More than 20 people were reported to have suffocated in the hold of one overloaded fishing boat, bringing the total death toll for Monday and Tuesday to 50.
Italian officials said three women saved on Monday had given birth over the past 24 hours on a coast guard vessel that was bringing some 1,000 refugees to Sicily. The women and their three children were all reported to be in good health.
The coast guard said the 4,655 migrants rescued on Tuesday were taken from 33 overcrowded boats, including 27 rubber dinghies and one wooden boat that was believed to have been carrying around 1,000 people.
More than 6,000 migrants were rescued on Monday, but on Wednesday the number fell sharply to about 368 from six different boats, the coast guard said.
A photographer working for Agence France-Presse, who was aboard a ship chartered by a Spanish non-governmental organization to help with the rescue missions, was quoted as saying he had counted 22 bodies on that boat. He told Italian media he thought other corpses were still in the hold.
At its closest, Libya is 290 km (180 miles) from the Italian island of Lampedusa and people smugglers have taken advantage of the chaos in the north African state to use it as their main staging post in the region for journeys to Europe.
"Obviously the good weather has played an important role in explaining the large number of recent arrivals," a coast guard spokesman said.
The latest surge in new arrivals means at least 142,000 migrants have reached Italy since the start of the year and around 3,100 have died making the perilous trip. An estimated 154,000 came to Italy in 2015 and 2,892 died.
The vast majority of refugees come from Africa, including Nigeria, Eritrea, Guinea, Gambia, Sudan, Ivory Coast and Somalia.
The migrants are brought to Italy, where EU and Italian officials work together to identify and fingerprint the asylum seekers. European law says migrants must stay in the country where they first enter the bloc and Italy is increasingly struggling to deal with the growing numbers.
As part of a deal to relieve pressure on Europe's frontline states in the migration crisis, the European Commission last year devised a plan aimed at moving thousands of new arrivals away from Italy and Greece towards other EU members.
Under the scheme, up to 40,000 migrants could be relocated from Italy over two years, but so far only a few hundred have been flown out with many EU allies reluctant to welcome in asylum seekers and refugees.

AL-RAI, Syria On a road in northern Syria, a rebel fighter signals to a group of men, women and children traipsing across barren fields to put their hands in the air. He pats them down and inspects their phones, trying to determine whether they are Islamic State sympathizers.
The group -- two families from the town of Tel Afar near Mosul in Iraq -- are part of a rising tide of people flooding into northern Syria, fleeing deteriorating conditions and  conflict in the parts of Iraq and Syria still controlled by Islamic State as operations to crush the militants gather pace.
"Praise god we were only three days on the road," said one of those stopped, one of two brothers traveling with their wives and children. "There are people who take them a month and more."
The two families paid $32,000 to smugglers who took them to the edge of Islamic State territory in north Syria -- around 500 km (310 miles) -- inside oil tankers.
From there they walked the final 25 km (15 miles) to arrive at a Free Syrian Army (FSA) rebel checkpoint just outside the town of al-Rai on the Turkish border, an area of northwestern Syria purged of Islamic State by Turkey and its Syrian rebel allies in August.
"We were in the oil tanker for more than nine hours. The women fainted from the heat and lack of oxygen," said the brother, asking not to be named to protect relatives back home.
"The children were given medicine to make them sleep so they would not wake when Daesh (Islamic State) members tapped the tanks at checkpoints to make sure nobody was inside," he said.
In a long-anticipated operation aimed at delivering a killer blow to the militants in Iraq, Iraqi forces backed by a U.S.-led coalition could launch an operation to oust them from their stronghold of Mosul as soon as the second half of October.
The anticipated attack has caused a spike in people leaving the surrounding area since May, according to a U.N.-affiliated body which monitors population movement inside Syria but which asked not to be named to protect its workers.
"They (Islamic State) kill us every day," said the brother, who said he aims to cross into Turkey to join relatives.
"You have to let your beard grow. If you do anything wrong they will fine you 50,000 or 100,000 Iraqi dinars ($85). They fine you constantly."
While Iranian-backed Shi'ite militias allied to Baghdad's Shi'ite-dominated government have been a key deterrent against the hardline Sunni militants, they have also aroused fear as they move into areas dominated by Sunni Muslims, such as Tel Afar.
"The militias would consider us to be Daesh (Islamic State) even if I told them that we are civilians," said the brother.
"We are powerless to escape the double fear of Daesh and the Iranian and Shi'ite militias."

CLEARED FOR ENTRY
The rebels manning the checkpoints at al-Rai are also wary about who is and isn't Islamic State. Rebel fighter Abu Muhammad's job is to clear refugees for entry to the town.
"When we capture a Daesh member from among the fleeing civilians, we interrogate him and try to find out if he has sleeper cells among us," he said.
"In the event that someone renounces Daesh, we treat him well. If he has family we try to secure them, even if they are still in Daesh territory."
Arrivals cleared for entry are given aid and free transport out of al-Rai to other rebel-held towns, he said.
Another refugee, a 35-year-old Syrian who gave his name as Muhammad, said he traveled around 50 km (30 miles) from an IS-controlled area near Manbij, a city in northern Syria cleared by a U.S.-backed alliance of Arab and Kurdish fighters in August.
He paid smugglers 40,000 Syrian pounds ($80) for each of the four children and two adults who accompanied him on his journey. He said he had no plan for where he was ultimately heading.
"The important thing is just that we left," he said.
Now in its sixth year, Syria's civil war has cut the country into a patchwork of territories held by the government and an often competing array of armed factions, including Kurdish militia fighters and a loose coalition of rebel groups.
Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed and 11 million have been displaced -- half the country's prewar population.
The U.N.-affiliated body told Reuters it knows of at least 6,000 people who fled Raqqa, Islamic State's de facto capital in Syria, for other parts of Syria in June, July and August.
The majority of these traveled to IS-controlled areas in northwest Aleppo province, getting themselves as close as possible to the border with FSA-controlled territory, with the aim of traveling on to Turkey if possible.
More than 5,500 have also left Deir al-Zor in eastern Syria, the largely IS-controlled province which borders Iraq, the group said. The majority of those headed north to Hasaka province, which is controlled by the Kurdish YPG militia.
Many fleeing Islamic State controlled areas around Mosul in Iraq also head over the border to Hasaka.
Ahmad Khader, 26, from Deir al-Zor, said Islamic State confiscated his identification papers. Members of his group had to pay 25,000 Syrian pounds ($48) per person for the journey to al-Rai, which included walking 40 km (25 miles) by foot.
"It is forbidden to leave territory controlled by Islamic State ... most cars on the way were scared to carry us just because we are from Deir al-Zor," he said.
Wael al-Jassim, 22, paid smugglers 60,000 Syrian pounds ($116) each for himself, his wife and two children to travel from their home in Islamic State territory east of Aleppo.
"I got myself smuggled because there was no work. With or without Daesh, if there is no work how can I feed my family?" he said.
The rebels manning the checkpoints around al-Rai estimated they see at least 3,000 people passing through each day.
"Those fleeing are in a pitiful state," said Muhammad, the rebel fighter. "They travel long distances and pay large sums of money to smugglers."

(Note: Language in paragraph four may offend some readers.)
MANILA Philippine leader Rodrigo Duterte on Tuesday told U.S. President Barack Obama to "go to hell" and said the United States had refused to sell some weapons to his country but he did not care because Russia and China were willing suppliers.
In his latest salvo, Duterte said he was realigning his foreign policy because the United States had failed the Philippines and added that at some point, "I will break up with America". It was not clear what he meant by "break up".
During three tangential and fiercely worded speeches in Manila, Duterte said the United States did not want to sell missiles and other weapons, but Russia and China had told him they could provide them easily.
"Although it may sound shit to you, it is my sacred duty to keep the integrity of this republic and the people healthy," Duterte said.
"If you don't want to sell arms, I'll go to Russia. I sent the generals to Russia and Russia said 'do not worry, we have everything you need, we'll give it to you'.
"And as for China, they said 'just come over and sign and everything will be delivered'."
China "did not understand the situation", its Ministry of Foreign Affairs said, however, in a statement sent to Reuters.
Duterte's comments were the latest in a near-daily barrage of hostility toward the United States, during which Duterte has started to contrast the former colonial power with its geopolitical rivals Russia and China.
In Washington, U.S. officials downplayed Duterte's comments, saying they were "at odds" with the two countries' warm relationship and decades-long alliance. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said there has been no communication from the Philippines about making changes in that relationship.
Earnest did not, however, back down from criticism of Duterte's tactics in his deadly war on drugs.
"Even as we protect the strong alliance, the administration and the United States of America will not hesitate to raise our concerns about extrajudicial killings," he said at a briefing.

'HELL IS FULL'
On Sunday, Duterte said he had received support from Russia and China when he complained to them about the United States. He also said he would review a U.S.-Philippines Enhanced Defence Cooperation Agreement.
The deal, signed in 2014, grants U.S. troops some access to Philippine bases, and allows them to set up storage facilities for maritime security and humanitarian and disaster response operations.
Duterte said the United States should have supported the Philippines in tackling its chronic drugs problems but that instead it had criticized him for the high death toll, as did the European Union.
"Instead of helping us, the first to hit was the State Department. So you can go to hell, Mr Obama, you can go to hell," he said.
"EU, better choose purgatory. Hell is full already. Why should I be afraid of you?"
At a later speech he said he was emotional because the United States had not been a friend of the Philippines since his election in May.
"They just ... reprimand another president in front of the international community," he told the Jewish community at a synagogue.
"This is what happens now, I will be reconfiguring my foreign policy. Eventually, I might in my time I will break up with America."
It was not clear if by his "time", he was referring to his six-year term in office.
According to some U.S. officials, Washington has been doing its best to ignore Duterte's rhetoric and not provide him with a pretext for more outbursts.
While an open break with Manila would create problems in a region where China's influence has grown, there were no serious discussions about taking punitive steps such as cutting aid to the Philippines, two U.S. officials said on Monday.
Several of Duterte's allies on Monday suggested he act more like a statesman because his comments had created a stir. On Tuesday, he said his outbursts were because he was provoked by criticism of his crackdown on drugs.
"When you are already at the receiving end of an uncontrollable rush, the only way out is to insult," he said.
"That is my retaliation."

ADDIS ABABA Ethiopia opened a new train line on Wednesday linking its land-locked capital to the Red Sea state of Djibouti, part of Addis Ababa's infrastructure program aimed at turning the poor, agrarian nation into an industrial hub.
Ethiopia's economy is one of the fastest growing in Africa, even though it has suffered a severe drought for at least the past two years. Growth has been fueled by construction of railways, roads and hydro-electric dams to power industry.
Ethiopian Railways Corporation spokesman Dereje Tefera said the $4 billion, Chinese-built 750-km (470-mile) electrified line "will minimize the cost of the transport and the transport time and it's free from pollution, it uses renewable energy."
"It's part of the trans-African railway network so it will give an opportunity for connecting Ethiopia with other neighboring countries," Dereje said of the line which will be operated by Chinese workers until Ethiopians are trained.
Ethiopia's economic development has long been hampered by poor roads and an aging fleet of trucks, which ply the route between the industrial heartlands in the center of the country and Djibouti, Ethiopia's main import and export route.
The government is facing a wave of protests, often involving clashes with police, over land rights and other political issues. Locals say the authorities grab land for new industry but offer them little compensation.


WASHINGTON The White House sharply criticized Israel on Wednesday over its plan for a new settlement building in the West Bank that the White House says undermines the peace process and contradicts assurances from Jerusalem.
"We did receive public assurances from the Israeli government that contradict this announcement," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said at a news briefing. "I guess when we're talking about how good friends treat one another, that's a source of serious concern as well."

ISTANBUL/BERLIN A delegation of German lawmakers visited Incirlik air base in southern Turkey on Wednesday, defusing a months-long row that had prevented them meeting troops serving in the coalition against Islamic State.
Karl Lamers, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats, said the visit had paved the way for parliament to vote to extend the deployment of nearly 240 German troops stationed at the base.
"The Bundestag has got access to the troops and that means nothing stands in the way of an extension of the German military mission in December," Lamers told the RND newspaper group.
Lawmakers had threatened to end the deployment when its mandate expires in December.
The German Air Force has kept Tornado surveillance jets and a refueling plane at Incirlik to contribute to the fight against Islamic State. The German soldiers are at Incirlik to help defend Turkish troops against possible attacks from Syria.
Turkey in June barred the politicians from the base in response to a resolution in the German parliament declaring the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Ottoman forces a genocide.
In July, Turkey briefly grounded coalition planes at Incirlik after an abortive military coup and amid concerns that rogue troops might try to flee the country from the base.
The U.S. Air Force has around 5,000 personnel at Incirlik, which serves as a hub for the U.S.-led coalition trying to defeat Islamic State over the borders in Syria and Iraq.
Merkel in September persuaded President Tayyip Erdogan to allow the parliamentarians to visit. Their trip is taking place with little publicity. Anadolu said it was closed to media.
Lamers said German lawmakers had an "open, honest" dialogue with Turkish officers and there were no restrictions on their ability to move around the base.
Another German lawmaker, Agnieszka Brugger, a member of the Green party, told RND housing facilities for the German troops at the base were not satisfactory. Germany plans to invest 58 million euros to improve infrastructure at the base, including new quarters for troops.
NATO allies Germany and Turkey have crossed swords in recent months over the flow of migrants to Europe through Turkey and German criticism of the Turkish response to the coup attempt, which has included a purge of security and civil service personnel and the arrests of more than 30,000 people.
German prosecutors said on Tuesday they had dropped an investigation of a comedian accused of offending a foreign leader after reciting an obscene poem about Erdogan on national television. Erdogan had filed a complaint against the comedian, Jan Boehmermann.
Boehmermann released a video on Twitter on Wednesday in which he welcomed the decision and called the situation "a big sad joke given what journalists, satirists and opposition figures have had to and continue to endure in Turkey."


BENGALURU, India At least two people were killed and several more were trapped after an incomplete five-storey building collapsed in India's technology hub of Bengaluru on Wednesday, officials said.
The residential building, which had been under construction for several months, was located in the city's Bellandur neighborhood, home to upscale apartment blocks, hostels and offices of technology companies.
The area, which surrounds a lake of the same name and flanks a major ring road, has experienced a construction boom in recent years.
Rescue officials at the scene said a security guard working at an adjacent building had been killed and that three construction workers remained trapped late on Wednesday.
A police inspector later told Reuters by telephone that a 24-year-old construction worker had also been killed. It was not clear whether he was one of the three trapped workers.
At least four people had been pulled from under the debris.
One of the men rescued, who gave his name as Bishnu, said he was a tiler from the West Bengal region. He said he was working on the fourth floor when the building collapsed sideways.
From a sleepy retirement center known as the "Garden City" in the 1990s, Bengaluru has grown to become a sprawling metropolis of 10 million that houses major offices of many international technology companies.
Rescue crews worked into the night amid the debris, much of which remained surrounded by bamboo scaffolding.
"We pulled out one person whose leg was stuck inside the debris," said Adid Inamdar, a manager at a nearby hotel, who ran through clouds of dust to reach the scene.
"We could only see the back of another person. We removed the concrete blocks above him and he was bleeding profusely. His head was severely damaged."

BERLIN German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the European Union and the United States should continue to negotiate the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) free trade deal as long as possible, despite opposition in many European countries.
German Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel triggered an intense debate in Europe about the free trade deal when he said in August that the talks had failed because Washington did not want to compromise with its European counterparts.
"We are still continuing the discussions about TTIP and I think we should continue them as long as possible," Merkel told a meeting of the German BGA trade body on Wednesday. "We will never fall below the standards set by the European Union."
Opponents of the deal argue it would weaken environmental standards and give too much power to multinational companies. But Merkel said a successful deal could "write a new chapter in the history of globalization".
Gabriel told the BGA trade group he did not believe the TTIP trade talks could be completed this year.
"I expect that we'll need a new start after the U.S. president election," Gabriel said.
He said the European Union's free trade deal with Canada, which had set high standards for protections, would help prevent adoption of a European-U.S. deal that offered worse conditions.
BGA President Anton Boerner told the meeting: "TTIP may be the last chance for Europe to participate in a trade deal that allows us to set the standards for global trade."
Such standards might not please everyone, but they would "definitely be better than the ones that other countries without democracy and respect for human rights would write," he said.
U.S. and European officials have said they expect talks on the trade deal to continue at least until a new U.S. president is sworn in next January. Some German and French officials have said it might be helpful to resume the talks under a new name.
A senior German government official said Germany expects an intense debate at the International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington this week on the growing risks of populism and growing opposition to free trade.
"For us and also many others, a free world economy, free movement of goods and no protectionism are basic pillars of an order that we have always advocated and supported," the  official said on condition of anonymity.
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble is likely to stress at the IMF meeting that Germany's investment rate is above the European average and that Berlin plans to further boost domestic demand with additional tax cuts, the official said.
The IMF maintained its forecast for weak global growth on Tuesday and warned that further stagnation would fuel more populist sentiment against trade and immigration that would stifle activity, productivity and innovation.

BAGHDAD Several wells in Iraq's Qayyara oilfield continue to burn six weeks after the U.S.-backed Iraqi forces ousted Islamic State militants from the town as part of their push on the IS stronghold of Mosul, the oil ministry said on Wednesday.
The militants torched oil wells in the region to help conceal their positions before fleeing ahead of the government advance into Qayyara, sending black smoke into the sky and oil pouring into main thoroughfares.
Government efforts to put out the remaining oil fires are being hampered by Islamic State shelling, and around nine of 15 wells were still ablaze, oil ministry spokesman Asim Jihad said.
The fires "are creating pollution and presenting serious health risks", the U.N. refugee agency UNHCR said in an update on the Mosul region.
"Efforts to quell the flames have been impeded reportedly by several attempted attacks by armed groups, which also threaten the safety and sustainability of returns," UNHCR said, referring to refugees trying to move back to homes from which they fled when Islamic State overran the northern Iraqi region in 2014.
Its two main oilfields, Qayyara and Najma, used to produce up to 30,000 barrels per day of heavy crude before it fell under control of the ultra-hardline jihadists.
The oil ministry said on Aug. 30 that it did not expect to resume production from the region before the capture of Mosul, Iraq's second largest city 60 km (40 miles) north of Qayyara.
Prime Minister Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi wants to take back Mosul before the end of this year and the push on the city could start as soon as this month, according to local military commanders.


BRUSSELS The Taliban should look at the example of a deal between the Afghan government and militant commander Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as a path to an "honorable" peace in Afghanistan, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday.
Kerry told an international conference in Brussels to raise funds for the Western-backed Afghan government that the Taliban could not win on the battlefield.
He pointed to a peace agreement announced last week with the Hezb-i-Islami militant group headed by Hekmatyar, "one of the country’s most notorious figures."
"This a model for what might be possible ... I think the message from every person here would be to the Taliban, take note," Kerry said.
"There is a path forward towards an honorable end to the conflict that the Taliban have waged – it is a conflict that cannot and will not be won on the battlefield. A political settlement negotiated with the Afghan government is the only way to end the fighting, ensure lasting stability, and achieve a full drawdown ultimately of international military forces, which is their goal," he said.
"Their goal of ridding Afghanistan of external forces will not occur by ... the continued insurgency, it will come though peace," Kerry added.
Last week's agreement requires Hekmatyar to cease violence, cut all ties with international militant groups, and accept the Afghan constitution, including its guarantee of rights for women and minorities.
"In return for keeping these commitments, Hekmatyar’s group will be able to emerge from the shadows to rejoin Afghan society," Kerry said.
The agreement will grant Hekmatyar amnesty for past offences and the release of certain Hezb-i-Islami prisoners. The Kabul government also agreed to press for the lifting of international sanctions on Hekmatyar.
The Brussels conference is expected to pledge more than $3 billion a year of development assistance to the Afghan government and Kerry said this was as sign that the world would stand by Afghanistan, where the United States and its allies have been battling the Taliban since 2001.
"The Taliban and their allies cannot wait us out ... We will not abandon our Afghan friends," Kerry said.
Hekmatyar is a controversial figure, having been accused of killing or wounding thousands when his troops fired on Kabul during the civil wars of the 1990s. He has been designated a "global terrorist" by the United States.
During the 1980s, however, he received significant aid from the United States, as well as from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, to fight Soviet forces occupying Afghanistan.
Compared to other militant groups like the Taliban or Islamic State, Hezb-i-Islami has played a relatively small role in the insurgency recently and analysts say the accord is mostly symbolic.

ANKARA Turkey detained 55 military and intelligence agency personnel on Wednesday over suspected links with U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen and his network, accused by Ankara of orchestrating a failed coup in July, media reports said.
In the latest of a stream of raids targeting those suspected of ties to the putsch, police carried out operations in 31 provinces after prosecutors issued detention warrants for a total of 101 suspects, state-run Anadolu Agency reported.
On July 15, a rogue faction within the military staged an attempted coup in which more than 240 people were killed. Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999, denies government accusations he was behind the action.
Subsequently Turkey declared a three-month state of emergency which it extended by another three months this week and the head of Turkey's Constitutional Court stressed the importance of returning to a state of normality.
"Naturally, the aim is to eliminate the threat against the democratic constitutional order, basic rights and freedoms as soon as possible, so as to return to a normal state," court chairman Zuhtu Arslan said on Wednesday.
Turkey has already sacked or suspended more than 100,000 civil servants, teachers, judges, prosecutors and others. Some 32,000 people, including soldiers and journalists, have been formally arrested.
The security crackdown has alarmed rights groups and Western allies who fear President Tayyip Erdogan may be using the failed coup as a pretext to curtail all dissent and intensify action against suspected sympathizers of Kurdish militants.
Ankara wants the United States to detain and extradite Gulen so that he can be prosecuted in Turkey on a charge that he masterminded the attempt to overthrow the government.

ANKARA Turkey dismissed 540 soldiers from its naval and air forces command over suspected links with U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen and his network, accused by Ankara of orchestrating a failed coup in July, the defense ministry said.
In the latest of a stream of removals targeting those suspected of ties to the coup attempt, HSYK, Turkey's highest judiciary board, removed 66 judges and prosecutors from duty.
On July 15, a rogue faction within the military staged an attempted coup in which more than 240 people were killed. Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999, denies government accusations he was behind the action.


MOSCOW A former senior official from breakaway eastern Ukraine said Russia directly finances pensions and public sector salaries in the two pro-Russian regions there.
The assertion by former separatist minister Alexander Khodakovsky contradicts Moscow, which says it does not bankroll the separatist administration and, as a consequence, cannot influence the rebels to make peace with Kiev.
Khodakovsky was State Security Minister and then Security Council Secretary in the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic before he was fired this year following a dispute with the separatist leader.
Asked in an interview with Reuters if Russia was funding pensions and state wages in the Donbass, made up of Donetsk and neighboring Luhansk, Khodakovsky said: "Yes. These are the main areas. The budget sector and pensions, which need to be covered as a priority."
"Without outside help, it's impossible to sustain the territory even if you have the most effective tax-raising system. The level of help from Russia exceeds the amounts that we collect within the territory," he said in a Moscow hotel.
A spokeswoman for the Russian finance ministry reiterated on Tuesday that the federal budget made no payments for pensions or public sector wages in the Donbass.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is under international pressure to persuade the rebels to implement their commitments under a peace deal for eastern Ukraine, where more than 9,500 people have been killed since spring 2014.
Moscow, which blames the pro-Western administration in Ukraine's capital, Kiev, for the lack of progress in the deal, says it is just a broker in the process and cannot force compliance from the separatists, who took up arms after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine.
Kiev has stopped paying pensions and public sector wages to people registered as living in separatist-controlled areas and much of the heavy industry on which the Donbass depends for revenue has stopped operating.

OUTSPOKEN
Russian official data contains no information about public money being transferred to eastern Ukraine. About a fifth of budget spending is designated secret.
A spokesman for the finance ministry in the Donetsk separatist administration said sources of financing could not be disclosed for security reasons. The finance ministry in the Luhansk People's Republic, could not be reached for comment.
Khodakovsky is one of the most outspoken of the separatist leaders who declared the mainly Russian-speaking regions independent of Kiev after mass protests overthrew Ukraine's pro-Russian former president.
In July 2014, he told Reuters in an interview that the separatists had a Buk anti-aircraft missile of the type which, according to a report released last week by a team of international investigators, shot down Malaysian Airlines flight MH17, killing all 298 people on board.
He did not confirm the rebels had used the missile and said that if they had, it would only have been because Ukraine had provoked them. He remained loyal to the rebels and subsequently held senior roles in the separatist administration.
Khodakovsky acknowledged disagreements with the rebel leadership but gave no indication he had lost interest in the separatist cause.
He said the cost to Moscow would only rise because of the dwindling capacity of the two regions to support themselves and that the only solution was for them to split completely from Ukraine and join Russia.
Between them the Donetsk and Luhansk regions had a combined population before the separatist uprising of 6.55 million, according to Ukrainian state statistics, or roughly the same as the population of Russia's second city St Petersburg and the surrounding region.
Data published by the Donetsk separatists shows that since March 2015 the total cost of pensions and welfare benefits in the region has been about $750 million. That figure does not include public sector wages, or any spending in Luhansk.
That kind of expenditure is small when set against Russia's projected budget spending for this year of about $250 billion, but money is so tight that Moscow is planning to increase borrowing and has introduced unpopular measures like a pension freeze for people who work beyond retirement age.
Ukraine and Western governments say Russia has also provided military help to the separatists, including sending troops and hardware into eastern Ukraine to fight Kiev's forces.
The Kremlin denies sending in regular forces, although Putin acknowledged last year that Russia did have people in Ukraine "who were carrying out certain tasks, including in the military sphere".

NAIROBI All 10 members of Kenya's election commission have resigned, the government said on Wednesday, after months of protests by the opposition which accused the body of bias that made it unfit to oversee elections due next August.
The resignations at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) are the result of cross-party talks to address grievances voiced at weekly protests that began in April in which at least four people were killed, raising concerns of a return to election-related violence.
The government said last week that a negotiating committee had agreed with IEBC to "facilitate the orderly and dignified exit of current commissioners and ensure a seamless transition".
President Uhuru Kenyatta's chief of staff, Joseph Kinyua, said on Wednesday all 10 of them had submitted their resignations.
"The Government ... reiterates its unwavering commitment to pursuing a seamless and lawful transition within the IEBC and to having the 8th August 2017 general election proceed on schedule," Kinyua said.
Violence has often been a feature of Kenyan elections. After the 2007 vote, 1,200 people were killed in ethnic fighting.
The opposition Coalition for Reform and Democracy (CORD), led by former prime minister Raila Odinga, tried but failed to overturn the result of a 2013 presidential election won by Kenyatta.
CORD, which organized the protests against the election commission, complained about the failure of electronic voter identification devices and other technical glitches, which they blamed on the shortcomings of the commission and on corruption.
The commission denied bias and its members had said in the past they would not quit.

KABUL An explosion struck a bus carrying government employees during rush hour traffic in the Afghan capital of Kabul on Wednesday, wounding four people, police and witnesses said.
The blast occurred just before 5 p.m. (8.30 a.m. ET) on a major road near a university and an old parliament building.
The target appeared to be a bus carrying employees of the Ministry of Mining and Petroleum, said Sediq Seqqi, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry.
Among the wounded were three men and one woman, officials said.
Photographs from the scene showed a small bus with its windows shattered by the blast.

SARAJEVO Police interrupted election tellers in the Bosnian town of Srebrenica, site of the 1995 genocide of 8,000 Muslims, just as they were about to recount ballots in a tense vote which may bring the town its first Serb mayor since the war.
Srebrenica became a symbol of Bosniak suffering in the 1992-95 Bosnian war when Bosnian Serb forces surrounded the town, a U.N-protected enclave, and killed its Muslim men and boys.
In Sunday's local election, 70 percent of votes cast locally went to a Bosnian Serb, Mladen Grujicic, causing uproar in a town that is still deeply scarred by the massacre, Europe's worst atrocity since World War Two.
Grujicic, like many other Serbs, denies that the massacre amounted to a genocide as the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) has ruled.
Incumbent mayor Camil Durakovic, a Muslim Bosniak, still hopes to overturn Grujicic's lead when the votes of thousands of Muslim Srebrenica survivors scattered around Bosnia and the world are counted in Sarajevo.
Bosnia's central election commission ordered a partial recount of votes already in because of suspected irregularities.
But the town's election authorities halted the recount on Wednesday after Bosnian Serb police entered their offices and  questioned their chief. Police said they were securing election documents.
"This is direct pressure on the work of the municipal election commission," said chairman Nermin Alivuković, adding that they would await further instructions from Bosnia's Central Election Commission (CIK) before proceeding.

THREATS, DEMOLITIONS
The ICTY has jailed a number of Bosnian Serbs over the massacre. This year, the Bosnian Serbs' wartime political leader Radovan Karadzic was sentenced to 40 years in jail for crimes including the massacre.
Most Serbs dispute the death toll as well as denying that the massacre, the final straw that triggered the NATO intervention that ended the war, amounts to a genocide.
On Tuesday, Grujicic said he had received telephoned threats against him and his family, and a restaurant owned by a Bosniak in Srebrenica was demolished the same night.
When Bosniaks began returning to Srebrenica after 2000, the international community, then closely involved in Bosnia's peace process, promised them protection. Now many fear they may be forced to leave their homes again.
Many returnees are elderly women who wanted to be close to the graves of their relatives. So far, the bodies of 6,300 victims have been found in hundreds of mass graves scattered across eastern Bosnia and moved to a cemetery on the edge of the town.

PARIS France's foreign minister will travel to Russia and the United States on Thursday and Friday to try to persuade both sides to adopt a U.N. Security Council resolution to impose a ceasefire in Syria.
The trip by Jean-Marc Ayrault comes after the collapse of a ceasefire brokered by the two powers last month, which has been followed by intense Syrian and Russian bombing of rebel-held areas of the northern city of Aleppo. Washington broke off talks with Moscow on Monday, accusing Russia of breaking its commitments.
"This trip is in the framework of efforts by France to get a resolution adopted at the U.N. Security Council opening the path for a ceasefire in Aleppo and aid access for populations that need it so much," Ayrault's ministry said.
The 15-member council began negotiations on Monday on a French and Spanish draft resolution that urges Russia and the United States to ensure an immediate truce in Aleppo and to "put an end to all military flights over the city."
Russia and China have previously protected the Syrian government from council action by blocking several resolutions, including a bid to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court.
Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said on Monday that Moscow was engaged in discussions on the draft text even if he not especially enthusiastic on its language.
Ayrault, who has accused Syria, backed by Russia and Iran, of carrying out war crimes as part of an "all-out war" on its people, travels to Moscow on Thursday and Washington on Friday.
French officials have said that if Moscow were to oppose the resolution they would be ready to put it forward anyway to force Moscow into a veto, underscoring its complicity with the Syrian government.
The draft text, seen by Reuters, also asks U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon to propose options for a U.N.-supervised monitoring of a truce and threatens to "take further measures" in the event of non-compliance by "any party to the Syrian domestic conflict."
The draft resolution urges Russia and the United States "to ensure the immediate implementation of the cessation of hostilities, starting with Aleppo, and, to that effect, to put an end to all military flights over the city."
A French diplomatic source said: "It's all that's left. We're not fools. The Russians aren't going to begin respecting human rights from one day to the next, but it's all we have to put pressure on them."
Since the collapse of the latest ceasefire in September, Russian and Syrian warplanes have launched their biggest offensive on Aleppo's besieged rebel-held sectors, in a battle that has become a potentially decisive turning point in the five-year civil war.

SINGAPORE Outside powers need to act fast to protect Syrians because foreign military backing for the government is "changing the equation" of the war, Qatar's foreign minister said on Wednesday.
For 14 days, a Russian-backed Syrian government offensive has been underway to capture eastern Aleppo and crush the last urban stronghold of a revolt against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that began in 2011.
The collapse of the latest Syria ceasefire has heightened the possibility that Gulf states including Saudi Arabia and Qatar - backers of Syrian rebels - might arm the opposition with shoulder-fired missiles to defend themselves against Syrian and Russian warplanes, U.S. officials have said.
Qatar's foreign minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani, a member of the royal family, told a news conference in Singapore on Wednesday that the Friends of Syria group - an alliance of mainly Western and Gulf Arab countries who oppose Assad - had since February "stopped and minimized" its supply of weapons to rebels.
"On the other hand, the regime is continuing to receive supply from its allies, and that is what is changing the equation right now, and we hope that we can do something to protect them," al-Thani said in answer to a question.
"We are very much concerned that the international community doesn’t have a Plan B for the Syrian conflict and the bombing and the shelling of the Syrians will continue. We need to act very fast to protect the Syrian people."
The United States maintains that negotiations are the only way to end the violence in Syria.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who announced on Monday that Washington was suspending talks with Moscow due to Russia's role in the offensive, has said peace efforts must carry on.
But frustration with Washington has intensified, raising the possibility that Gulf allies or Turkey will no longer continue to follow the U.S. lead or will turn a blind eye to wealthy individuals looking to supply man-portable air defense systems, or MANPADS, to opposition groups.
Western nations, mindful of how weapons spread from Libya after its Western-backed revolt in 2011 to unstable nations such as Mali, say arming rebels is risky because it is hard to tell militants from moderates in a disorganized array.
Gulf Arabs say they know Islamist armed groups better and blame disorganization on a lack of outside support and training.

VENTIMIGLIA, Italy Far from the crowded 'Jungle' camp in Calais where migrants try to smuggle themselves aboard trucks bound for Britain, hundreds more are risking their lives to enter the other end of France from northern Italy.
The frontier between Italy's Ventimiglia and Menton in southern France is already known as 'Mini Calais' - and the problem may get bigger. Just this week, Italian coastguards have rescued more than 10,000 migrants who set out from Libya on the north coast of Africa.
Nightly, people who have fled war in countries such as Sudan and Libya set out from Red Cross and Caritas camps on the Italian side in the hope that they can negotiate the 5-6 km (3.1 to 3.7 miles) of mountain passes and tunnels and enter France unnoticed.
"This is my eighth attempt," says Hassan, a young man who set out from Sudan's Darfur region five years ago and has made it this far despite a childhood injury that left him with a walking handicap.
A record 65.3 million people were uprooted worldwide last year, with wars in Syria and Africa responsible for a large part of a 50 percent surge in just five years, the United Nations refugee agency said in a report in June. That means 1 in every 113 people on the planet is now a refugee, asylum-seeker or internally displaced person.
"Italy No, Italy No," chants one group of young migrants among those playing cat-and-mouse with French border guards.
"Personally, I want to get to Montpellier because a French lady I met on a boat spoke about it," said Magdi, who left Sudan last January, crossing Chad, Niger and Libya before making it to Ventimiglia.
One of his attempts to enter France 10 days ago was aborted when a fellow-migrant was hit by a train and seriously injured while walking along the tracks.
For those who get further than Magdi and his companion, there is every chance of being sent straight back.
The local police department in the Alpes-Maritimes region of France says 1,521 migrants were arrested last week, of whom 94 percent  were returned. So far this year, total arrests in the area are 24,344.
European Union law says migrants must apply for asylum in the country where they first enter the bloc, and Italy is increasingly struggling to deal with the growing numbers.

JOHANNESBURG Clashes between police and students protesting about the cost of education forced South Africa's Wits and Cape Town universities to suspend classes on Wednesday for the second time in less than a month.
The cost of university education, prohibitive for many black students, has become a symbol of the inequalities that endure in South Africa more than two decades after the end of apartheid.
Protests first erupted last year, then eased off as the government froze fee increases and set up a commission to look into the education funding system. But unrest has boiled up again since the commission said on Sept. 19 that fees would continue to rise.
A spokeswoman for the University of the Witwatersrand, known as Wits, and which reopened on Monday after protests last month forced a shutdown, said late on Tuesday that classes would be canceled until Oct. 10.
"We have agreed to suspend the academic program," Shirona Patel said.
Police on Tuesday fired stun grenades, rubber bullets and tear gas after students calling for free education at the Johannesburg campus threw stones at police and flipped one vehicle. The university said some protesters had earlier pulled lecturers out of their offices as they prepared to restart classes after the shutdown called on Sept. 20.
Wits, which has been the epicenter of the protests,  conducted a poll last week asking students if they wanted go back to class.
Some 77 percent of the 21,730 students who voted supported the resumption of lessons but clashes between students over whether classes should resume were reported on Wednesday.
The University of Cape Town (UCT), which had hired private security guards to help police the campus, said it would be shut down for the rest of the week due to safety concerns.
UCT spokeswoman Pat Lucas said that protesters had in the early hours of Wednesday attacked private security guards, broken into some buildings and started fires. Eight students had been arrested in the preceding day's violence.

ABIDJAN Ivory Coast President Alassane Ouattara called on parliament on Wednesday to approve a new constitution that he says will draw a line under years of turmoil and war but which the opposition calls a backward step for democracy.
Ouattara promised during his re-election campaign last year to remove the constitution's requirement for presidential candidates to have parents who are both natural-born Ivorian citizens, a sore point in a country that has long attracted immigrants from neighboring countries.
Nationality was at the heart of a crisis that began with a 1999 coup and included a 2002-2003 civil war that split the West African nation in two for eight years.
The draft constitution submitted to parliament by Ouattara softens the clause, which had been used by his opponents to bar him from elections and was a symbol of exclusion, particularly of northerners like him, whose family ties often straddle borders.
"This is the occasion to definitively turn the page on the successive crises our country has known, to write new pages in our history by proposing a new social pact," Ouattara told lawmakers at the National Assembly.
Ouattara finally won election in 2010, although his victory sparked a second war that killed more than 3,000 people after then president Laurent Gbagbo refused to accept defeat.
Gbagbo is now on trial at the International Criminal Court accused of crimes against humanity.
"Today, the time has come for us to define together what kind of nation we want to build. The time has come to decide what we want to leave behind for our children," Ouattara said.
Parliament has until Oct. 15 to approve the text in order to submit it to the public in a referendum on Oct. 30.
Other revisions include removing a maximum age of 75 for presidential candidates and making it easier to change the constitution in future.
Opposition politicians and some civil society groups have criticized the drafting process as lacking consensus and transparency.
Pascal Affi N'Guessan, the head of Gbagbo's FPI party, now the main opposition, criticized the proposed creation of the post of vice-president and a senate, a third of whose members would be appointed by the president, among other changes.
He said they would allow Ouattara to entrench the political coalition between his RDR and the other main party, the PDCI.
"These are changes that take us backward, that offer no solutions to the problems that the country has known but allow one clan to take the state hostage," he told Reuters.

KINSHASA Authorities from the Democratic Republic of Congo have issued an ultimatum to the country's U.N. peacekeeping mission to deport South Sudanese rebels rescued by U.N. forces, the mission (MONUSCO) said on Wednesday.
Opposition leader Riek Machar and more than 750 supporters fled into Congo in August following fierce fighting in the South Sudan capital of Juba. They were evacuated by MONUSCO from notheastern Congo to receive medical care and most are being held on three U.N. bases in eastern Congo, the mission said.
"There was an official document that was submitted to the Special Representative of the Secretary General setting an ultimatum, in a general manner, for the departure of these troops," spokesman Felix Basse told reporters in the Congolese capital of Kinshasa.
"They must leave Congo -- everyone knows that," he said.
He did not specify when the ultimatum expires, adding that talks were continuing with the Congolese and South Sudanese governments as well as regional organizations to find a solution.
However, no third country has yet stepped up to take them in, raising fears that the situation could threaten regional stability.
The influx of rebel fighters from volatile neighbors is a sensitive theme in Congo, where the flow of Hutu militiamen from neighboring Rwanda after its 1994 genocide helped trigger years of regional conflict in eastern Congo that killed millions.
Government spokesman Lambert Mende said the government has decided that the South Sudanese must leave Congo but declined to provide additional details on the government's ultimatum.
The spokesman for Machar's rebel force, the SPLM-IO, said on Tuesday that it was prepared to receive those that had fled back in South Sudanese territory that it claims to control.
"We have hundreds of our military personnel on (our) side of the Congolese border. We want the U.N. to transport them to our controlled areas," James Gatdet Dak told Reuters from Nairobi.
South Sudan's government applauded Democratic Republic of Congo's ultimatum.
"We would like to warmly welcome and appreciate the government of (Congo) for the wise decision to expel the remnants of Riek Machar from their soil," deputy government spokesman Akol Paul Kordi told Reuters.
Hundreds have been killed in battles that broke out in the world's youngest nation in July between troops loyal to Machar and President Salva Kiir, his long-time political foe. More than 20,000 South Sudanese refugees have crossed into Congo this year, according to the U.N. Refugee Agency.


RECAK, Kosovo Nusret Shabani hid in a ditch when Serb forces came for the men of Recak and survived. Forty-five other ethnic Albanians in the village were less lucky, including his son. They were shot dead.
But a new court in The Hague will try ethnic Albanians, not Serbs, for crimes committed during and after that conflict, a prospect that angers Kosovars who hail the soldiers of the Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army as freedom fighters.
Around the ill-maintained memorial to the 1999 massacre, the children of Recak herd cattle in a village that has few other sources of income and where there is anger at the creation of the new court, the Kosovo Specialist Chambers.
"The KLA is as clear as a teardrop," said Shabani, now 76, voicing widespread contempt at the likely prosecution of former fighters.
Western governments, which pushed for the court's creation, believe prosecutions of both sides are needed to help bring reconciliation and stability to the war-scarred region and move it closer to the European Union.
Some Serbs and Albanians have been tried and convicted by international and local courts for crimes committed during the 1998-99 war, but many Kosovars see EU and U.S. demands for a new court as yet another unwelcome foreign imposition.
The war, brought to an end by NATO airstrikes against dictator Slobodan Milosevic's Serbia, was the last act in the bloody break-up of Yugoslavia into seven successor states in a series of conflicts that lasted most of the 1990s and claimed over 130,000 lives.
Now, Kosovo's 1.8 million population is Europe's youngest, the result of a 1980s and 1990s baby boom, a source both of economic potential but also, with youth unemployment running at 60 percent, of instability.
Hemmed in, they need visas for all but a handful of countries. Some try their luck as refugees. Others support radical movements like Self-Determination (VV), the largest opposition party. It favors direct action to block a government that it says is too willing to do western powers' bidding.
Its lawmakers let off tear gas in parliament to block votes on a border demarcation deal with Montenegro demanded by the EU. Other targets of VV's ire include the new court and proposals for greater autonomy for the country's Serbs.
"I don't believe the way to justice and equality can come from a trial of only one side," said Visar Ymeri, VV's president. Tome Gashi, a defense lawyer for Albanian war crimes suspects labeled it a "racist court".

"MISUSING YOUTH"
Vicious reprisals against Kosovo's Serbs soon after the end of the war created an environment of fear where Albanians were reluctant to testify in cases involving lurid allegations including organ trafficking, for fear of being labeled traitors.
The new court - EU-funded, internationally staffed, but applying Kosovo law - was the EU's response.
Key witnesses have been spirited out of the country. Senior politicians could be indicted, with observers saying President Hashim Thaci, once a KLA commander, potentially a target.
The government of Prime Minister Isa Mustafa is in a bind, needing closer European integration to bring visa-free travel, work and desperately needed growth, while knowing that the court and other measures the EU demands in return are unpopular.
The government blames the tension on VV, whose young members have been linked to vandalism and attacks on public property. Six members were arrested for firing a rocket-propelled grenade at parliament, though VV says they were framed by the police.
"I call them anarchists. They are misusing these youngsters for their cause of trying to overthrow the government through violent means," said Bajram Gecaj, a local government minister and adviser to the prime minister.

SHRUGGING OFF THE PAST
To win visa-free travel to the EU, Kosovo must settle all outstanding border disputes with its neighbors. But VV says the deal with Montenegro surrenders 8,000 hectares (20,000 acres)of land - a claim the government, the EU and the United States reject.
While many Kosovars chafe at what feels like international supervision, the country is heavily dependent on European support. The streets of the capital Pristina throng with international officials, many of them working to bolster the rule of law by investigating war crimes and corruption.
Behind that lies the specter of Bosnia, another Yugoslav successor state that is still under international supervision more than 20 years after it was torn apart by a brutal ethnic war, politically divided and with a moribund economy.
Amid the gloom, Kosovo's legion of young people seems defiantly optimistic, shrugging off the anger of older people who remember the conflict. Kosovar footballers and pop singers who have defied the odds to make it big in Europe are a subject of proud coffee house conversation.
"The older people are still thinking about the past," said Adriatik Kallaba, 20, a piano student at Pristina University on his way to an exam. "I feel free... I like to live here."

KIEV Ukraine warned its citizens on Wednesday against traveling to Russia, saying they were at risk following an increase in harassment and detentions of Ukrainians by Russian security services.
The move is further testimony to the breakdown in relations between the one-time allies in the wake of Russia's annexation of Crimea in early 2014 and support for pro-Russian separatists in the ensuing conflict in eastern Ukraine.
"On the territory of the aggressor-state, the number of unjustified detentions of our citizens has increased," the Ukrainian foreign ministry said in an online statement.
"Russian law enforcement bodies treat Ukrainians roughly, using unacceptable methods of physical and psychological pressure, torture and other acts," it said, warning citizens against traveling to or through Russian territory.
On Monday a Ukrainian journalist was arrested by Russia's FSB security service and accused of gathering secret information about Russian defense and security bodies - charges Ukrainian authorities said were trumped up.
The arrest has prompted Ukrainian authorities to consider introducing visa requirements for Russian citizens on the expectation that Russia will tighten rules for Ukrainians wishing to travel to Russia.
"We have to understand that unfortunately Russian security services will quickly adjust to a visa regime. We must not make political gestures, but truly deal with Russia as an aggressor," Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin told journalists on Wednesday.
Traveling between Ukraine and Russia had already become more complicated since the introduction of tit-for-tat direct flight bans in October 2015.

NAIROBI A U.S. citizen was killed on the outskirts of Ethiopia's capital when the vehicle she was in was struck by rocks thrown by people in the area, the U.S. embassy said in a message to citizens.
The embassy did not give details about Tuesday's incident in its message to U.S. citizens that was sent to Reuters, but sporadic protests and violence has flared for a year or more in the Oromiya region, near Addis Ababa, over land and political rights.
Residents say there have been reports in recent days of people hurling stones at vehicles after at least 55 people were killed in a stampede, when police fired teargas and shots in the air to disperse protesters during a festival in Oromiya region.


WASHINGTON U.S. Secretary Of State Kerry spoke with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos to reaffirm U.S. support for efforts seeking peace in the country, the State Department said on Wednesday, days after Colombians rejected a deal between Colombia's government and Marxist guerrillas.
In a statement, State Department John Kirby also said Kerry told Santos in a telephone call on Tuesday that special envoy Bernie Aronson will travel to Havana, where peace negotiators are reconvening for more talks.

BELGRADE Faced with deteriorating conditions in refugee camps, a group of migrants in Serbia said on Wednesday they would continue a forlorn protest march to demand improved accommodation and secure their passage to Western Europe.
A group of several hundred migrants, mostly men fleeing poverty in Afghanistan and Pakistan, set out to walk the 200 kilometers to the Hungarian border on Tuesday, hoping there to enter the European Union's no-passport Schengen zone.
After a night under heavy autumn rain, around half the 300 who set out decided to return to Belgrade, while the remainder hunkered down under police guard at a petrol station outside the town of Indjija, some 50 kilometers north of Belgrade.
Bedraggled migrants complained that Serbia's refugee camps, which have space for just 4,500 people, were becoming unlivable for the 7,000 migrants trapped in the country after Hungary all but sealed its border.
"We applied (to stay), but all camps are full," said Ahmad, an Afghan from Kabul, explaining the decision to abandon attempts to find lodgings in Serbia and leave for the border.
"We were sleeping in parks and under bridges, there's lack of sanitation, food, everything."
Migrant numbers are sharply down from last year, when hundreds of thousands of people escaping war and poverty in the Middle East and beyond swept through south-east Europe, but a backlog of migrants with nowhere to go is building in Serbia.
Patrols have been stepped up along Serbia's southern and eastern borders, but new arrivals still trickle in. On Wednesday, the Interior Ministry said police had found 71 illegal migrants in the eastern town of Zajecar and arrested two suspected smugglers.
The sight of migrants bedding down in makeshift camps near Belgrade's central station has become a common one in recent months, and conditions are likely to worsen with the onset of cooler autumn weather.
In Indjija early on Wednesday, aid workers distributed blankets to the migrants and a local baker provided pastries and sandwiches.
Although the migrants demanded to be bussed to the Hungarian border, Ivan Gerginov, Serbia's deputy Commissioner for Refugees, told Tanjug news agency authorities would not provide any assistance.

BIRMINGHAM, England The leader of Britain's anti-European Union UK Independence Party, Diane James, has resigned after only 18 days, throwing the populist party into turmoil only three months after it was on the winning side of the Brexit vote.
Although the June 23 vote represented success in UKIP's 25-year quest to see Britain leave the EU, it also triggered the resignation of its leader Nigel Farage and an existential crisis about what its new long-term mission should be.
James, a member of the European Parliament, had won a leadership contest on Sept. 16, promising to professionalize the party and use its political muscle to ensure the Conservative government did not negotiate a watered-down exit deal.
Inheriting a party riven with factional infighting and missing its former leader, James had said she would prioritize party unity and modernize its internal structure.
Less than three weeks into her reign, and before the party had even registered her officially as leader, she said late on Tuesday that aim had become impossible.
"I will not be formalizing my recent nomination to become the new leader of the party", she said in a statement posted on her Twitter account.
"It has become clear I do not have sufficient authority, nor the full support of all my MEP colleagues and party officers to implement changes I believe necessary and upon which I based my campaign."
On the sidelines on the party's annual conference in September, party officials and members had expressed concern that James, 56, lacked the same kind of popular appeal that had made Farage, a champion of Britain's 'anti-establishment' backlash, one of the country's most widely recognized politicians.
Farage ruled out a return and said he hoped some of UKIP's better known figures would run for the leadership this time around and that he expected they would.
"I'm sorry that what's happened today has happened but I will say this - it is better that it happened now than in six months' time," he told Sky TV.
The previous leadership contest had been marred by a decision to exclude one of the top candidates, Steven Woolfe, because he had submitted his nomination minutes after the deadline.
At the time, Woolfe described that decision as a 'coup' and criticized the party's National Executive Committee - the powerful internal body which James herself had pledged to reform.

PRAGUE The Czech Republic's ruling party might consider forming a government with the Communist Party (KSCM) next year, the prime minister told a newspaper, contemplating an alliance that would break a 27-year-old taboo.
Bohuslav Sobotka told daily Hospodarske Noviny his Social Democrats did not rule out joining forces with the KSCM after national elections due by October 2017.
He made the prospect conditional on the Communists dropping their anti-EU agenda and opposition to the NATO military alliance - a policy cornerstone of the party that ruled the country from 1948 until the Iron Curtain fell in 1989, when it was a satellite state of the Soviet Union.
"I can imagine cooperation with the Communists on the basis of clear boundaries concerning the security of the Czech Republic, mainly not doubting NATO membership and a pro-European government stance," Sobotka said.
While the Communists have given no indication they would consider meeting such conditions, the prime minister's comment suggests a softening of a broad-based opposition to giving the party a place in a democratically elected government.
It may also reflect the state of opinion polls.
The latest, a CVVM institute survey from September, showed the Social Democrats on 23 percent, lagging their current main coalition partner - the centrist ANO party - on 28.5 percent, with the Communists third with 15 percent.
The Communists have been part of several regional governments but remain a pariah for other parties at national level given the country's totalitarian past and their foreign policy views, including support for Russia.
Sobotka said his party was ready to cooperate further with the Communists at regional level, ahead of regional elections taking place on Friday and Saturday.
The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999 and its government has kept its distance from Russia at a time when KSCM lawmakers have made frequent visits to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
Sobotka's Social Democrats joined forces with the ANO, led by billionaire businessman Andrej Babis, and the centrist Christian Democrats after national elections in 2013.
Babis and Sobotka have pledged to keep their alliance together until the next election, but the start of a new campaign cycle has revealed wide cracks as the two parties battle for leadership of the next government.
Babis, who runs a conglomerate that is the biggest private employer in the country, upended traditional party politics with the rise of his ANO movement in 2011. His critics accuse him of conflicts of interest.

BAGHDAD Iraq's foreign ministry summoned the Turkish ambassador in Baghdad to protest what it said were "provocative" comments made in Ankara about keeping Turkish troops in northern Iraq, a ministry spokesman said in a statement on Wednesday.
The Turkish parliament decided last week to extend a mandate that allows military operations against militant organizations in Iraq and Syria for another year.
Turkey says it deployed troops at a base in northern Iraq late last year as part of an international mission to train and equip Iraqi forces to fight against Islamic State, which controls a swathe of territory south of the border region, around the city of Mosul, and also in neighboring Syria.
The Iraqi government says it never invited such a force and considers the Turkish troops occupiers.


ANKARA Turkey's military presence in Iraq is intended for stability at a time when the country is deeply divided and Turkey does not aim to become an occupying force, Turkish deputy prime minister Numan Kurtulmus said on Wednesday.
Turkish forces are at Iraq's Bashiqa camp, at the request of Iraqi Kurdish President Masoud Barzani, to train the local forces, Kurtulmus said. "Turkey will not allow this to become a matter of debate," he told reporters.
Turkey and Iraq have summoned one other's ambassadors in a mounting diplomatic stand-off after Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi warned Turkey that it risked triggering a "regional war" by keeping troops in Iraqi territory.


BUDAPEST Prime Minister Viktor Orban is known for his outspoken hostility to migrants and has built a razor-wire border fence to keep them out, but he has also quietly opened Hungary's doors to foreigners rich enough to pay to live in the country.
A "residency bond" scheme, launched in 2013, has attracted thousands of mostly affluent Chinese keen to enjoy the cleaner air, educational opportunities and the more relaxed pace of life that Europe offers - and, unlike the refugees fleeing conflicts in the Middle East, these immigrants feel very welcome.
"It's a successful scheme because it brings money into the country and not a penny leaves the country," Orban told parliament on Monday in reply to opposition questions.
Yan Ding, who arrived in Budapest with his wife and young daughter in April 2015, is not untypical of the nearly 10,000 Chinese who have moved to Hungary under the scheme.
After selling property he had inherited from his parents, Beijing native Ding bought a bond worth 300,000 euros that gives him and his family the right to live for five years in Hungary, which is a member of the European Union.
"I came not for myself but solely for my daughter's education, her future," he told Reuters through an interpreter.
His daughter, Xue Er, now enrolled in a local school and able to speak some Hungarian, has received warm support from  teachers and administrators who have gone out of their way to accommodate her, Ding said.
"In China the economy is developing rapidly but pollution is bad and the cities are growing so fast that you can't get the kind of education you would like for your child," he said.
He said he wanted to spare his daughter the extreme competition among students in China which he attributed to the high number of pupils in each class. Hungary typically has up to 25 pupils in a class, which he said was very low by Chinese standards.
Participants in Hungary's residency scheme must stomp up funds not only for the bond but also for a hefty commission fee of 50,000 euros to the agency processing their application. But when their bond is redeemed after five years, they recover their 300,000 euros and keep the right to stay in Hungary.

RED CARPET
Several other EU countries operate similar schemes but Hungary's is less expensive than most and offers residency rights straight away.
The red carpet rolled out for these well-heeled foreigners - the vast majority are Chinese, official statistics show - is in stark contrast to the opprobrium Orban has heaped on the hundreds of thousands of migrants who have fled to Europe over the past year, mostly from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.
Orban says those migrants, who are mostly Muslims, pose a threat to Europe's security and Christian civilization.
He successfully lobbied Hungarians to reject in an Oct. 2 referendum migrant quotas the EU had proposed for member states. Turnout was too low to make the poll valid but he shows no sign of compromising on his refusal to take in migrants.
Ding rejects any comparison between the migrants now barred from Hungary by the new fence and bond purchasers like himself.
"Chinese immigrants are in completely different shoes,"  said Yan. "They have savings in China, property, therefore they have expectations. It is a different demographic."
"I doubt either the government or Hungarian society fail to see the difference ... Things are positive here (for us), nothing negative happens."
Many of the Chinese bond buyers have an entrepreneurial background and are keen to seek new investment opportunities.
Ding has co-founded a company to advise new arrivals on ways to invest their money in Hungary and beyond.
"We want to export Hungarian technology, good solutions to China," said Zhang Jinjun, Ding's business partner, adding that the new arrivals had invigorated commercial ties between Hungary and China, the world's second biggest economy.
"I have been here for 20 years. We have gone the classic route, clothes, shoes, and we are deep in that business. With new people come new ideas ... The money is just hanging around here and we are yet to put it to work."
One recent sunny day Ding showed two newly arrived couples around a Budapest loft by the Danube where Chinese-owned businesses have offices to consider investment opportunities. Among companies examined was Oxytree, which sells a fast-growing tree bio-engineered for industrial and energy use.
Wang Minjun, who arrived in Hungary in February after selling audio systems in Guangzhou, China's largest metropolitan area, said he was optimistic about the business prospects ahead.
"Once I get to know the local market I may carry on (selling stereos). But if not, I will invest in something else."

KABUL Thousands of residents have fled or face deteriorating conditions as fighting between Afghan forces and Taliban militants entered its third day in the embattled northern city of Kunduz, officials said on Wednesday.
Taliban fighters easily penetrated the city's defenses on Monday, raising questions about the capacity of the Western-backed security forces, even as international donors meet in Brussels to approve billions of dollars in new development aid for Afghanistan.
"Most civilians have abandoned Kunduz city and have gone to neighboring districts or provinces," said Kunduz provincial governor Asadullah Amarkhel. "There is no electricity, no water and no food. Many shops are closed."
Government troops, backed by U.S. special forces and air strikes, have made slow but "significant" progress in clearing the city, said Kunduz police chief Qasim Jangalbagh.
He acknowledged, however, that the situation remained dangerous for many residents.
"There are security problems in the city," he said. "People do not have enough food, water and other needs so they are evacuating the city to go to safe places.”
In social media posts, the Taliban rejected claims that the government had retaken Kunduz and accused security forces and U.S. troops of committing abuses against civilians.
The U.S. military command in Kabul said there was "sporadic" fighting within Kunduz but Afghan security forces controlled the city.
American aircraft conducted at least two air strikes on Wednesday to "defend friendly forces who were receiving enemy fire", the military said in a statement online.
"The city is locked down," said Hajji Hasem, a resident leaving Kunduz with his family on Wednesday. "If the Taliban and air strikes do not kill you, hunger and thirst will."
Increased attacks by insurgents hoping to topple the Western-backed government and install Islamist rule have tested the Afghan security forces who are struggling to defend major cities and roads a year and a half after a NATO-led force declared an end to its combat mission.
The violence has displaced nearly 1 million Afghans within the country, according to the United Nations, and contributed to an exodus of tens of thousands to Europe and other areas.
The two-day, EU-led donor conference in Brussels is seeking fresh funds despite Western public fatigue with involvement in Afghanistan, 15 years after the U.S. invasion that ousted the Taliban weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States.

ERBIL, Iraq The battle for Mosul will be a make-or-break moment for Iraq that could split the country along ethnic and sectarian lines,  said the former regional governor who has assembled a force which will take part in the campaign.
Iraq has been preparing for more than a year for its offensive to drive Islamic State out of its last major stronghold. The operation is expected to kick off this month.
What happens after a victory could present an even bigger challenge than the battle, however -- Sunnis, Kurds and Shi'ites who have formed an uneasy alliance against the militants will be faced with the daunting task of drawing up an effective power-sharing formula in Iraq, a major OPEC oil producer.
"The biggest fear is that Iraq will separate if they don’t control this fight in a wise manner and they don’t give the Arab Sunnis real authority," said Atheel al-Nujaifi, a prominent Sunni politician who was governor in Mosul when Islamic State seized the city.
Mosul fell to Islamic State in June 2014 when Iraqi security forces fled. Islamic State declared a caliphate which straddled territory in Iraq and Syria, with Mosul as its de facto capital.
In August, an Iraqi parliamentary panel blamed Nujaifi and a handful of other politicians and military commanders for the group's lightning capture of the predominantly Sunni city.
Nujaifi told Reuters he is committed to promoting unity in Iraq, which has descended into a sectarian civil war since a U.S.-led invasion toppled Saddam Hussein in 2003.
The politician has patched together a force of about 4,500 fighters, mostly Iraqi soldiers and former officers from Nineveh Province, of which Mosul is the capital, to take part in the offensive.
Trained by 200 Turkish military advisors and U.S. forces, Nujaifi says his men are more likely to succeed in stabilising Mosul because they are locals who can win over the population.

TURKISH-BACKED FORCE
Nujaifi praised cooperation with the Kurds but criticised the Iranian-backed Shi'ite militias, underscoring sensitivities ahead of the Mosul campaign.
Sunnis accuse the militias of widespread human rights abuses against them, which they deny. The militias, who have been a bulwark against Islamic State's advances, say they are protecting Iraq from terrorists.
"Kurds are partners on the ground. We have no problems with them. But in terms of the Shiite militias they are an alien or strange entity in the governorate," Nujaifi said in his spacious villa in the Kurdish city of Erbil.
"In terms of the Kurds there is no problem. But in terms of the Iranian presence this is very dangerous for Nineveh governorate," he said in the interview, as armed men in green military fatigues stood guard.
Underscoring the complexities, Nujaifi's ally Turkey is wary of Iraq's Kurds because it fears their semi-autonomous state in the north will encourage Kurds in Turkey to press for independence.
While Nujaifi called for unity, he suggested calm could only come with more regional autonomy, an idea which angers the central Shi'ite-led government in Baghdad.
Nineveh should handle its own administrative and security affairs, and even write up its own constitution, he said.
Minority Sunnis held many positions of authority under Saddam, but their fortunes declined after the U.S. occupation. Majority Shi'ites now dominate government and military posts.
Nujaifi warned Iraq would split if Sunnis are not empowered.
"Maybe it will be divided into more then three or four sections. Even in Baghdad they will have the same problems," he said.
"The Mosul battle may keep Iraq as one unit but with a new kind of administration or there will be a separation."
A survivor of 15 assassination attempts by Islamic State in Mosul, Nujaifi is a prime example of Iraq's complex dangers.
He said he gets frequent death threats from both the Sunni Islamic State and the Shi'ite militias.
"This is how our life is," he said.

YANGON Campaigners are calling for Myanmar to review the convictions of 20 Muslims jailed on terrorism charges after the Southeast Asian country repealed an authoritarian law under which they were convicted.
President Htin Kyaw had signed off on a bill abolishing the notorious Emergency Provisions Act of 1950, which was frequently used by previous military governments to quash dissent, his office said in a statement on Tuesday.
But the repeal is not retroactive, and the convictions of 20 Myanmar Muslims serving lengthy prison terms under the law were not being reviewed, ruling party and government spokesmen have told Reuters, despite activists' concerns about the judicial process.
"It is incumbent upon the government to review cases that involve defendants who possibly were wrongly convicted under this law," said Matthew Smith, founder of campaign group Fortify Rights.
"To not do so raises some serious questions about the government's commitment to ensuring the prisons are free from political prisoners."
Aung San Suu Kyi, the democracy hero and Nobel laureate who assumed power in April after winning elections last year, has been criticized for not speaking up for Myanmar's Muslim minority.
Communal violence in the western Rakhine State displaced about 125,000, most from the Rohingya Muslim group. Riots have broken out elsewhere in the Buddhist-majority country, while anti-Muslim hate speech has proliferated online.
Lawyers and family members told Reuters the 20, most hailing from central Myanmar, were traveling to a wedding in the eastern Shan State in August 2014 when they were detained by military intelligence officials, accused of plotting terrorist atrocities and charged under the 1950 law.
In January 2015, 19 men and women were sentenced to 14 years in prison each and a boy, who was 15 when he was arrested, got seven years, said lawyer Khin Moe Moe.
"Usually we're not able to defend people in cases involving Military Security Affairs. They have a policy to never lose," she said, referring to the military intelligence agency.
Several appeals had been rejected, Khin Moe Moe said.
“The president agreed this law led to mistreatment of the people, and many still suffer in prisons throughout the country, so they should have an amnesty," she said.

'YEARS WASTED'
One of the 20, Bo Bo Aung, had hoped for release when the new government took power, but that hope had faded, his wife, Khin Moe Aye, told Reuters.
“It's two years wasted in prison," she said. "My family and others are suffering because these people were jailed without justice by the previous government."
Lieutenant Colonel Myat Min Soe, a military intelligence official involved in the investigation, said that while no weapons had been discovered, the suspects had all confessed under interrogation to contacting unidentified militants.
"They tried to link with a terrorist organization from a foreign country. They planned to attack busy markets and crowded areas," he said.
According to Fortify Rights, which has reviewed more than 300 pages of court documents, a name card for a rebel army commander and an audio file of a speech with alleged Islamist militant content, retrieved from a computer, were the only evidence presented to court.
“It’s as if the court was fulfilling a mission to prosecute Muslims regardless of the evidence against them and regardless of rule of law," Smith said.
A spokesman for Suu Kyi's ruling party, Win Htein, and Zaw Htay, spokesman for the president's office, both said the case was an issue for the judiciary.
"If they don't agree they can appeal the decision to the next higher level of the courts,” Zaw Htay said.

MOSCOW The Kremlin said on Wednesday it regretted the fact that Russia and President Vladimir Putin had become what it called an inseparable part of the U.S. election campaign, saying it was fed up with Russia usually being presented in a negative light.
It made the comments after Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said a day earlier that Russia had broken a deal with the United States over a ceasefire in Syria and that Putin did not respect U.S. leaders.
"Of course we would like our country to be mentioned only positively, but to our regret we know that the Russian card and mentioning our president have practically become an inseparable part of America's election campaign," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters.

GOUDIRY, Senegal (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Slumped on a bench in a village in southeast Senegal - which is  lifeless but for the occasional bleating of goats and splutter of old motorcycles - Aliou Thiam has only one thing on his mind.
The 28-year-old is preparing to leave behind his wife, two children and the only life he has known in the pursuit of a goal shared by many young men across Senegal: reaching Europe.
"I don't have anything here. That is why I want to go, why I need to go," he said, glancing at several men lying nearby in the shade, snoozing through the still, sweltering afternoon.
"The only thing we know is migration," Thiam told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "Migration equals success."
Thousands of Senegalese men set off for Europe each year, risking their lives on treacherous journeys through the Sahara desert and across the Mediterranean sea. Most fail. Many die.
Senegal is among the top 10 countries of origin for migrants arriving in Italy this year, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) says, along with countries like Eritrea, Mali and Nigeria, beset by conflict or concerns over rights abuses.
But Senegal's young men are not fleeing war. Deemed economic migrants, they are seeking a better life for themselves and their families, and see Europe as the only gateway to success.
It is a belief entrenched over decades as generations of Senegalese moved to Europe - in particular to France, the former colonial master - and sent money home.
But more and more young men are now trying their luck with discontent over joblessness and the slow pace of development simmering in the West African nation.
Despite being one of Africa's most stable and fastest-growing democracies, Senegal's average monthly income is less than $100, and around one in eight people are unemployed.
The surge in migrants has sparked debate globally about whether economic migrants should be treated differently to refugees fleeing conflict, and fueled fears poverty will worsen and national stability come under threat if remittances dry up.
Uneducated, untrained and unemployed, Thiam and his peers in southeastern Tambacounda, one of Senegal's poorest regions, say they have been abandoned by the government - citing undeveloped land, few jobs, and a lack of vocational training schemes.
"All over Senegal, but especially outside of Dakar, there is a view that you can't make it here, but can make it in Europe," said Jo-Lind Roberts, chief of mission for the IOM in Senegal.
"There is a lack of hope about life in Senegal."

NO JOBS, NO FUTURE
Tambacounda is one of Senegal's main points of departure for the thousands of young men who have headed for Europe via Libya since the North African country's 2011 uprising led to a vacuum of state authority.
Two-thirds of Tambacounda's population of 700,000 live in poverty, compared to less than half on average across the nation of 15 million, according to data from Senegal's 2013 census.
One in three people in Tambacounda, where the average age is 20, have no job to go to.
"All these young people are lying around doing nothing," said El Hadji Sao, secretary general of Goudiry, one of Tambacounda's four departments. "It is enough to cause revolt."
In the heart of Goudiry, young men work tirelessly in wooden shacks, repairing motorbikes, welding steel and sewing clothes.
Yet very few jobs exist outside of the center of Goudiry, with vast expanses of arid, unused land interrupted only by withered baobab trees and isolated villages.
"To have a job with a salary here in Goudiry is impossible," said 35-year-old Yaya Diallo, who sees migrating to Europe as the only way to feed his wife and children. "I have to go."
Amid thatch-roof huts and mud-brick homes, the few newly-built health centers and schools, and the odd concrete house - some crowned with solar panels and satellite TV dishes - are a testament to the importance of remittances across the region.
"Everything you see is from those who have migrated ... all the projects are financed by them," said Moussa Kebe, who returned to Senegal after almost two years in Libya and set up an association to appeal for development in the area.
"If anyone is sick ... or needs clothes or food ... we have to call on the migrants. When someone passes away, or has to name a baby, we call the migrants - they are always solicited."

RELYING ON REMITTANCES
Senegalese migrants sent home at least 930 billion CFA francs ($1.6 billion) in 2015, eclipsing international aid for Senegal and accounting for more than 10 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP), World Bank data shows.
This figure may be far higher as it does not account for the cash-stuffed suitcases brought home by migrants, experts say.
Yet remittances to Senegal could shrink as European nations tighten their borders and work becomes harder to find, said Marta Foresti of the UK-based Overseas Development Institute.
Aware of this, the government is working to create more jobs in agriculture, and educate migrants about the risks of migration, said foreign ministry official Serigne Gueye.
"Migration is not the El Dorado people dream of - it is walking into the lion's den," he said in the capital Dakar.
"We want migrants to understand that what interests us is not their lives abroad, but their successful return to Senegal."
The state also backs the Program for Support for Solidarity Initiatives for Development (PAISD), which helps migrants in France to pool their earnings and invest in projects back in Senegal, from solar power systems to mechanic training schools.
"The migrants, with one foot in France and one foot in Senegal, are very important in terms of remittances - they are drivers of development," said Raphael Renault of the PAISD.
But informing people of the risks of migration to persuade them to stay, while relying on remittances to spur development, is an unsustainable strategy, said the Roberts of the IOM.
"Only 20-30 percent of remittances are invested in society, most go straight to families," she said. "You can't just trigger development over a few years - it doesn't work like that."

GENERATION GAP
The success of Goudiry's former migrants, who migrated to Europe several decades ago before returning home to retire, has inspired the younger generations to follow in their footsteps.
Thousands of Senegalese headed to France in the 1960s and early 1970s when booming economic growth saw the country recruit workers from its former colonies for manual labor.
Although France ended its labor migration policy in 1974, former migrants from Goudiry who entered the country illegally afterwards said their journeys were affordable and safe.
But these now elderly trailblazers, most of whom found consistent work allowing them to club together money in order to finance schools, wells and water towers back home, fear that their achievements may have set a dangerous precedent.
"Adventure is always difficult, but there were none of today's problems in our time," said 63-year-old Bocar Diallo, who went to Libya in the 1970s and flew to France, where he worked for Renault and an airport during his 33 years there.
But Goudiry's young men are not listening.
Armed with smartphones and televisions - paid for mainly by remittances - they are plugged into social media and TV shows offering a taste of life in Europe too tantalizing to resist.
Samba Sidibe, a softly-spoken man in his twenties, said his friends from Goudiry who made it to Europe often phoned him to boast about their new lives in France, Germany and Italy.
"One friend would phone me, telling me that Europe is a thousand times better than Africa," Sidibe said. "I looked on Facebook, I saw the nice pictures - it drove me to go."
Sidibe is one of hundreds of young men in Goudiry who burned through their families' savings to reach Europe, but failed.
More than 1,000 men have left Goudiry for Europe since 2013, said Kebe's Association of Repatriates from Libya. While half succeeded, at least 100 died on the journey and some 350 have been flown home by the IOM and governments of Senegal and Libya.
Repatriated from Libya last year, Sidibe now finds himself worse off than he could have ever imagined.
"I cannot sit here empty-handed," he said glumly, staring at the floor. "I must replace the money (some $2,000) to help my parents get out of this ordeal. If I don't find work, I will be forced to migrate - to try my luck one last time."

DESERT OF DEATH
Starting from a bus station in Tambacounda, Goudiry's aspiring migrants take buses, mini-vans and cars through Mali and Burkina Faso to reach Niger's desert town of Agadez - the main transit point in the Sahara for those dreaming of Europe.
For Senegal's young men, among the 300,000 migrants expected by the IOM to pass through Agadez this year, there begins the hellish 1,200 km (750 miles) journey to Sabha in southern Libya – a route prowled by bandits and baked by the fierce desert sun.
"The desert is much, much worse than the Mediterranean or Libya, because it is a place where you have no hope," said Ousmane Thiam, 24, who like Kebe, spent some two years in Libya and is spokesman for the Association of Repatriates from Libya.
While images of dead migrants on European shores have caused a global outcry, Africans heading for Europe may be dying in greater numbers in the Sahara than the thousands who have died in the Mediterranean, according to migration tracking group 4mi.
Thiam and other men from Goudiry who crossed the Sahara recalled being wedged into cars with 20 other migrants, having so little water that they had to drink their urine, burying dead bodies along the way, and being beaten and robbed at gunpoint.
"But I didn't have a choice," Thiam said. "If I had gone home, people would say I was scared - that I was not a man."
Despite having endured the grueling month-long journey from Senegal to Libya, the nightmare had just begun for Samba Thiam.
Thiam was asleep in a hostel for migrants in Libya's capital of Tripoli when the police burst in, arrested the 39-year-old and sent him to a prison where he would spend three months.
"Sometimes they beat us while we prayed ... innocent people were gunned down when they had done nothing wrong," he said.
"If the person leaving could see ahead to what is happening in Libya, he would not leave. But someone who is motivated by a desire to succeed, and help his family, becomes blind to this."

LIFE LEFT BEHIND
Despite growing awareness of the dangers along the route to Europe, and warnings from failed migrants about what lies ahead, a rising number of Senegalese are attempting the journey.
At least 6,000 Senegalese migrants have reached Italy by sea from Libya so far this year - more than the total for all of 2015, according to the latest available data from the IOM.
Yet for every man who leaves for Europe, there are the families - wives, children and parents - who are left behind.
Mournful and desperate for news from those who have left, these families often rely on support from their communities - having spent their last franc to buy their relative's passage.
Several widows said they could not stop their husbands leaving, and were unaware of the perils of the route ahead.
In Goudiry's remote village of Ainimady, 28-year-old Falmata Diallo watches a group of women gossip and giggle while stitching bright, floral murals to use as blankets and rugs.
Her eyes flood with tears as she relives the moment her husband left, and the agonizing silence she has endured since he called a year ago to say his boat was in trouble.
"When he left, my whole body was dead," the mother-of-three said, convulsing with sobs. "I could not say, or do, anything ... nobody could stop him from leaving."
In nearby Lombi Sadio, 74-year-old Samba Anne and his wife  have struggled to cope since the their two sons drowned in 2014.
"They left because they didn't have anything ... (but) they were doing everything, providing for the family," Anne said, cradling a photo of his sons, who died in their mid-thirties.
"When I heard about their deaths, I was finished," he added. "I am not a person any more."

BREAKING POINT
As toddlers squabble over a sack of oranges and teenage boys chase a tattered football towards a goal made out of branches, former migrant Issa Thiam argues with his son about his future.
Ibrahim owns a small shop, but with no other opportunities, he wants to move to Europe to improve his family's fortunes.
"I know of the dangers ... but staying here is harder than the road ahead because, when you are here with nothing to eat or drink, it (life) becomes a crisis," the 24-year-old said.
But he will not leave without his father's permission.
"I will slap him or hold him back if I can - I refuse to allow him to go," said 68-year-old Issa. "Senegal can advance and develop, if the young people stay here and work here."
Yet Goudiry's young men see things differently, bemoaning broken dams, the absence of mechanized farming, and a lack of factories, training schemes and development in the area.
As the sun sets in Toumbouguel, with girls gutting fish and women washing rice for the evening meal, Aliou Thiam smiles wryly at the prospect of realizing a better life in Senegal.
"It is better to die than to be here," said Thiam. "I have nothing here."

HAVANA/BOGOTA Colombia's government and Marxist guerrillas went back to the drawing board on Tuesday after a peace deal they painstakingly negotiated over four years was rejected in a shock referendum result.
In a vote that confounded opinion polls and was a disaster for President Juan Manuel Santos, Colombians narrowly rebuffed the pact on Sunday as too lenient on the rebels.
Lead negotiators Humberto de la Calle and Sergio Jaramillo were back at a Havana convention center on Tuesday meeting counterparts from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) to see what the rebels are willing to do, the government said.
The Cuban capital had been the venue since 2012 for talks between the two sides that reached an accord to end Colombia's 52-year war, which has killed around a quarter of a million people.
All sides, including "No" voters, who carried the day on Sunday by less than half a percentage point, say they want an end to war, and the two parties have kept their ceasefire.
But there is vehement opposition - led by hardline former President Alvaro Uribe - to major planks of the previous deal, including guaranteed congressional seats for the FARC and immunity from traditional jail sentences for leaders.
A renegotiation seems to depend on whether the FARC would accept tougher conditions, maybe combined with a softening of Uribe's demands. After years of refusing to meet negotiators, Uribe has now said he is willing to seek a joint solution.
Santos and Uribe will meet on Wednesday morning, the president's office said.
Santos late on Tuesday decreed that a government ceasefire put in place in August would be extended until the end of the month in a bid to allow time to salvage the deal. The original ceasefire was nullified when the peace accord was rejected in the plebiscite. He did not say if the ceasefire would be extended further.
“I hope we can advance with the accord and with the dialogue so we can solidify the corrections and the agreements that will allow us to move forward on a solution to this conflict,” Santos said in a statement.
The statement appeared to worry rebels, who questioned what would happen after Oct. 31.
"From then on, does the war continue?" FARC leader Timochenko tweeted, while rebel commander Pastor Alape advised rebel fighters to seek safe positions to avoid provocations.
Colombian Foreign Minister Maria Angela Holguin said the decision whether to officially renegotiate the accord lies with the FARC.
On Monday the rebels said they would remain "faithful" to the negotiated accord, and Twitter messages from FARC leadership appeared to suggest reluctance to change the terms at this stage.
"The thing is, just as the government has its deal breakers, so does the FARC, so we have to see if it is willing to reopen the accord," Holguin told reporters. "There was no Plan B, we believed the nation wanted peace."
Three representatives from Uribe's right-wing Democratic Center party are to pore over details with three from the government. In what may turn into a dual negotiation process, those meetings are to commence once de la Calle returns from Cuba.
Colombian financial markets fell on Monday as investors worried that the limbo over the peace deal would hold up fiscal reforms such as tax changes.
Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas, however, said the tax reforms would go ahead.


NEW DELHI India is trying to hasten a deal with the United States to buy Predator drone aircraft for military surveillance, one of several defense and nuclear projects the two sides are pursuing in the final months of the Obama administration.
India's request for 22 Predator Guardian drones made in June is in an advanced stage of negotiations. The two sides hope to make enough progress so only administrative tasks remain by the time President Barack Obama leaves office, government officials in New Delhi said.
"It is progressing well. The aim is to complete the main process in the next few months," said one of the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has built personal ties with President Barack Obama, whose signature foreign policy move has been a strategic pivot to Asia from the Middle East.
The United States has dislodged Russia as the top arms  supplier to India. New Delhi is also on the cusp of sealing a  U.S. nuclear reactor deal worth billions of dollars.
In return, Washington has given New Delhi access to high-end military technology, such as a new system to launch planes off aircraft carriers, and leaned on other countries to give India membership in the Missile Technology Control Regime, which cleared the way for the sale of the unarmed Predator.
India's military has also asked for the armed version of the Predator to help target suspected militant camps in Pakistan but U.S. export control laws prohibit such a transfer.
U.S. Defence Secretary Ashton Carter, who visited India in April, is expected to make a final trip there toward the end of the year.
"The administration is eager to get as much done as is humanly possible. They believe the conditions and the personnel in both capitals are uniquely favorable at the moment, and are eager to consolidate and institutionalize the progress," said Jeff Smith, director of Asia Security Programs at the American Foreign Policy Council.

"AMERICA FIRST"
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's "America First" foreign policy statements have raised questions in India and other Asian nations about a U.S. pullback from Asia.
Trump has said U.S. allies, such as Japan and South Korea, should pay more toward their defense. He told the New York Times in an interview in March he could withdraw U.S. troops from bases in Japan, and raised the idea of letting Japan and South Korea develop their own nuclear arsenals.
"It is a serious concern, and may lead to Chinese pre-eminence in Asia far sooner than expected," said Dhruva Jaishankar, a specialist on India-U.S. ties at Brookings India.
But Trump adviser Walid Phares, an American scholar and expert on Islamist radicals and counter-terrorism, said India had no reason to worry.
"With India, there is the ongoing partnership against terror and both countries have suffered from jihadi urban attacks. One can only project cooperation," Phares said.
Modi's office set up a six-member research group in July to help identify ways to engage with Trump, an aide said.
India's diaspora in the United States, led by the Overseas Friends of Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, has also opened a line to both presidential campaigns.
The comfort level is much higher with the Democratic candidate, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, said a member of the Overseas Friends of BJP who is based in New Delhi.
Manoj Ladwa, a London-based political strategist who served as communications director for Modi's 2014 campaign, said Trump had sent contradictory messages to India.
"On the one hand, he says he values business relations with India, but then mimics Indian call center workers, and disregards the competitiveness that a partnership with India could provide the U.S.," he said.
"His unpredictability is worrisome in a world that requires steady and mature statesmanship."

STRATEGIC PROGRAMS
The centerpiece of the military collaboration is the help  the United States is giving India in developing its biggest aircraft carrier.
Washington has offered flight launch technology that is being inducted into its own carriers to fly heavier fighter planes off the deck, which could allow the Indian navy to leapfrog a generation of technology.
In June, the United States reached agreement on exchanging confidential information on development of carriers with India - its only non-treaty ally with such an arrangement.
"They have already started helping us on our first indigenous carrier, in terms of certification, quality testing," said the Indian government official. "The challenge will be to sustain the momentum over the next decade."
In August the Modi government signed a logistics agreement giving each country access to the other's military bases, after 10 years of negotiations. Also on the table are two other defense agreements, one on securing communications and the other on sharing spatial data that Washington has been pushing for.
Modi has shown he won't hesitate to "reach down and choke someone," to get things done, Smith at the American Foreign Policy Council said, quoting a Pentagon official.

NEW YORK A former navy chief of Guinea-Bissau who was arrested three years ago in a U.S. drug sting off the West African coast was sentenced on Tuesday to four years in prison, most of which he has already served, for conspiring to facilitate the shipment of cocaine to the United States.
Former Rear Admiral Jose Americo Bubo Na Tchuto, 70, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan after pleading guilty in May 2014 to conspiring to import narcotics into the United States.
Na Tchuto has been cooperating with authorities in the time since, Berman said, a factor the judge considered in sentencing Guinea-Bissau's former navy chief of staff, who was a fighter in the country's 1956-1973 independence war.
He has been incarcerated since April 2013 and is expected to receive credit for good behavior, meaning he could be released immediately, his attorney, Patrick Joyce, said at the hearing.
"I don't have a lot to say besides saying that I'm sorry for my act," Na Tchuto said, through an interpreter, before Berman handed down his sentence.
Poverty-stricken Guinea-Bissau, on the west coast of Africa, is viewed by U.S. authorities as a major way point for South American-produced narcotics that are then shipped on to locations in Europe and elsewhere.
In 2010, U.S. Department of the Treasury designated Na Tchuto a drug kingpin after what it said were long-held  suspicions that he was a major drug trafficking facilitator.
In 2012, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration began a probe targeting drug trafficking in West Africa, using informants posing as representatives of South American drug traffickers.
Prosecutors said Na Tchuto and two of his aides, Tchamy Yala and Papis Djeme, met with the informants from 2012 to 2013 to discuss the shipment of hundreds of kilograms of cocaine from South America to Guinea Bissau that would be sent onward.
In meetings, Na Tchuto said it was a good time for the drug transaction given the Guinea Bissau government's weakness following a recent coup, and he sought a $1 million fee per 1,000 kilograms of cocaine, prosecutors said.
Na Tchuto, Yala and Djeme were arrested on a luxury yacht off the country's coast in April 2013, after being asked to meet with purported members of the organization the informants claimed to represent, prosecutors said.
Djeme and Yala pleaded guilty and were sentenced in 2014 to prison terms of 6-1/2 years and five years, respectively.

TEGUCIGALPA Murders in Honduras are on track to decline in 2016 even as the government's military drive against organized crime is running out of steam, the Observatory of Violence at the National Autonomous University of Honduras said on Tuesday.
A report by the observatory, which analyzes crime statistics in the country, showed 2,568 violent deaths in the first half of 2016, down 3.4 percent from the year-ago period.
If the pace persists, Honduras would end 2016 with a homicide rate of 59.1 per 100,000 inhabitants, Migdonia Ayestas, director of the observatory, said in an interview.
In 2012, Honduras was the world's most murderous nation, with a rate of 90.4 per 100,000. Neighboring El Salvador is now more violent, with more than 100 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants last year, statistics show.
Since taking office in early 2014, President Juan Hernandez has deployed a new military police force to combat organized crime, and has increased the defense budget.
However, after the capture of local cartel bosses, their second-in-commands have taken over, and the gangs are devising new ways of evading security forces, Ayestas said.
"The strategy of using the military against organized crime has exhausted itself," she said.
Lenin Gonzalez, a spokesman for the armed forces, declined to comment.

LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The health system in the Libyan city of Sirte has collapsed and thousands of residents are facing shortages of food and medicine as pro-government forces battle to seize control of the coastal city from Islamic State, a medical charity said on Tuesday.
Over the past two days, forces led by brigades from Misrata have pressed further into Sirte's neighborhood Number Three, advancing building by building as they try to finish a five-month-old campaign.
Islamic State now controls a residential strip of less than 1 km long in their former stronghold.
The International Medical Corps, which has been assisting Libyans who have fled Sirte, said once Islamic State was ousted from the city, government and aid agencies would face a huge challenge rebuilding infrastructure and re-establishing services.
"Sirte is a collapsed city," said Claudio Colantoni, the International Medical Corps' country director for Libya.
"The situation is dramatic. The health system is completely collapsed, there are no working hospitals, the needs are at 360 degrees," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in an phone interview.
Problems were magnified by political divisions within the country, Colantoni added.
"It will be very difficult to cope with this kind of challenge if Libya doesn't find a way to find a political appeasement," he said.
The U.N.-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) has so far struggled to exert its authority and recently saw a rival eastern commander, Kahlifa Haftar, seize some of Libya's major oil ports, one of which is less than 200 km from Sirte.
An estimated 90,000 people, about three quarters of the city's population, have fled Sirte since it was taken over by Islamic State last year, according to the United Nations.
Military operations to oust the jihadist group triggered new displacement, while also leading to the return of many families to areas cleared of militants, the U.N. relief agency said in September.
Those who have fled the area have reported severe shortages of food and medicines as well as lootings, public beheadings, "crucifixions" on scaffolding and abductions, the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said.
Colantoni said fighting resulted in large numbers of people requiring treatment for wounds as well as psychosocial support.
He said the area around Sirte remained too volatile for the International Medical Corps to deliver aid or open a field hospital.
"For any form of intervention to be carried out the situation needs to be stabilized," Colantoni said.

(Please note: language in fourth paragraph may offend some readers)
By Yeganeh Torbati
WASHINGTON Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte would face major obstacles to following through on his threat to reduce purchases of U.S. weapons in favor of Russian and Chinese arms, including re-training a military deeply accustomed to working with the United States, experts said on Tuesday.
Duterte said in speeches in Manila on Tuesday that the United States did not want to sell missiles and other weapons to the Philippines, but that Russia and China had told him they could provide them easily.
His comments were the latest in a near-daily barrage of hostility toward the United States that has raised questions about the long-standing alliance that is important to the U.S. strategy of rebalancing its forces toward Asia and countering an assertive China.
Angered by U.S. expressions of concern over his war on drugs, Duterte has called President Barack Obama a "son of a bitch," threatened to call off joint military exercises with Washington and started to contrast the former colonial power with its geopolitical rivals Russia and China.
U.S. officials have downplayed Duterte's remarks, focusing instead on the decades-long alliance which they have sought to bolster in recent years in response to China's moves to enforce its claims over the South China Sea. The White House said on Tuesday the United States had not received any formal communications from Duterte's government about changing the relationship.
The United States is the single largest provider of arms to the Philippines, according to figures maintained by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which tracks military expenditures globally.
The two countries have become more intertwined militarily in the last two years, holding more exercises and training, and making more U.S. ship and aircraft visits under President Barack Obama's shift of U.S. military forces and diplomatic efforts toward Asia in the face of China's rise.
The Philippines is the largest recipient of U.S. funds in the Asia-Pacific region under the Foreign Military Financing program, which is provided by the United States to help countries purchase American-made weapons and equipment. It received $50 million under FMF in the 2015 fiscal year.
That dependence on U.S. weapons and systems means the Philippine military would have to re-tool its command-and-control structure if it wanted to switch to Chinese or Russian systems, said Richard Javad Heydarian, a professor at De La Salle University in Manila and a former advisor to the Philippines House of Representatives.
"There will be some problems with configuration," Heydarian said. "It takes years for the Philippines' army to re-orient itself with new technology."
The Philippines spent $3.9 billion on its military in 2015, according to SIPRI data. That spending has risen nearly every year since 2010, when it stood at $2.4 billion, the data show.

DEEP TIES
Though Russia in particular could offer high-quality weapons systems, the Philippines would have to take into account their interoperability with existing American stock, said Lyle Goldstein, an expert on Chinese maritime issues at the U.S. Naval War College.
"You can't just buy a radar from this country and a missile from that country," Goldstein said. "The weaponry has to work together."
He noted that many Philippine officers were educated in the United States, linking the countries' military cultures closely.
The military relationship between the United States and the Philippines goes well beyond arms sales, extending to training exercises and support for maintenance.
Russia and China do not have the same reputation of providing comprehensive training and support, said Amy Searight, until earlier this year the U.S. deputy assistant secretary of defense for South and Southeast Asia.
"The United States is well known for being quite good at that full spectrum of support to build capabilities," said Searight, now with the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "It's not just the weapons or the armaments or vehicles or equipment. It's using those to build real capabilities."
Most likely, Duterte's aim is to signal to China that he is willing to tinker with existing U.S.-Philippines military cooperation, even if on the margins, Heydarian said.
That might mean relocating the annual U.S.-Philippines "Balikatan" military exercises away from the South China Sea, or refusing to further expand American military access to Philippine bases, he said.
Duterte could also be trying to strengthen his position in order to get better prices on military equipment from the United States, experts said. Russian and Chinese weapons are typically cheaper than American systems.

SAO PAULO A month-long strike by Brazilian bank workers has become the longest in 12 years, underscoring the impasse between employers and staff amid the nation's harshest recession in eight decades.
In a Tuesday statement, leaders from the Sindicato dos Bancários de São Paulo, Osasco e Região, the nation's biggest banking industry union, said almost 10 rounds of negotiations have yielded no accord.
The National Banking Federation last proposed on Sept. 28 an annual wage increase of 7 percent, implying an inflation-adjusted loss of 1.9 percent for bank workers. No new round of talks has been set, the union said.
Branch service, unlike online and automated teller machine channels, has been partially disrupted, the union said. Workers seek a 14.8 percent hike in their salaries, an annual recurring bonus equivalent to three months' wages and increased food and child care stipends and other benefits.
Usually banks and unions tussle over pay raises at this time every year, followed by short-lived strikes that seldom disrupt branch services.

WASHINGTON One al Qaeda militant was killed and another wounded in a strike in Yemen's Bayda province by the U.S. military on Sept. 29, U.S. Central Command said on Tuesday.
Local officials told Reuters last week that two senior members of al Qaeda's Yemen branch were killed in a suspected U.S. drone strike in the central province of Bayda.



STOCKHOLM/LONDON Three British-born scientists won the 2016 Nobel Prize in  Physics on Tuesday for revealing unusual states of matter, leading to advances in electronics that could aid researchers trying to develop quantum computers.
David Thouless, Duncan Haldane and Michael Kosterlitz, who all work at U.S. universities, share the prize for their discoveries on abrupt changes in the properties, or phases, of ultra-thin materials.
Their research centers on topology, a branch of mathematics involving step-wise changes like making a series of holes in an object. The difficult-to-grasp concept was illustrated by Nobel Committee member Thors Hans Hansson at a news conference using a cinnamon bun, a bagel and a Swedish style of pretzel with two holes.
"If you are a topolgist, it's only one thing that is really interesting with these things," Hansson said. "The bagel has one hole, the pretzel has two holes ... you cannot have half a hole, or 2-2/3 holes."
The Nobel Prize-winning discovery involved certain materials that go through step changes that affect their electrical properties. The changes are akin to the holes in baked goods, which can have no intermediate steps between one hole or two holes. (bit.ly/2dG4v3n)
One example is a superconductor, which at low temperatures conducts electricity without resistance.
"Thanks to their pioneering work, the hunt is now on for new and exotic phases of matter," the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said in awarding the 8 million Swedish crown ($937,000) prize.
"Many people are hopeful of future applications in both materials science and electronics."
Thouless, of the University of Washington in Seattle, was awarded half the prize, with the other half divided between Haldane, of Princeton University, and Kosterlitz, of Brown University.
"We really haven't understood ... the full amount of marvelous things that quantum mechanics can do," Haldane told Reuters in an interview at his home in Princeton, New Jersey. "It does things which we never dreamed of and could actually be tremendously useful for all kinds of new technologies."

'LONG OVERDUE'
Kosterlitz's colleague at Brown, Professor See Chen Ying, said he considered the award long overdue.
"You never know, because there are exciting discoveries everywhere, so every year we start thinking is this the year," Ying said in an interview on Brown's campus in Providence, Rhode Island. "Personally, I think it's long overdue."
Andy Schofield, a professor of theoretical physics at the University of Birmingham, where Kosterlitz and Thouless carried out their early work in the 1970s, said the new understanding of phase states was particularly promising in computing.
"One of the most exciting technological implications is in insulators that don't carry electricity normally but can be forced to carry electrical current at the surface," he told Reuters. "That's a very robust state, which gives a stability that is essential to quantum computing."
Superfast quantum computers, one of the holy grails of science, should be able to test multiple solutions to a problem at once and could in theory solve in seconds problems that take today's fastest machines years to crack.
Traditional computers use binary bits of information to store data while quantum computers use "qubits" that can simultaneously be 0 and 1, making them ultra-fast but unstable.
Physics is the second of this year's crop of Nobels and comes after Japan's Yoshinori Ohsumi was awarded the prize for medicine on Monday.
There had been speculation this year's prize might be awarded for the first detection of gravitational waves, the ripples in the fabric of space-time first predicted a century ago by Albert Einstein. The breakthrough, announced by international researchers in February, may have come too late for the Nobel Committee.
The three researchers join the ranks of some of the greatest names in science, including  Einstein, Niels Bohr and Marie Curie.
The prizes were first awarded in 1901 to honor achievements in science, literature and peace in accordance with the will of the Swedish dynamite inventor and business tycoon Alfred Nobel, who left much of his wealth to establish the award.
For a graphic on Nobel laureates, click on: tmsnrt.rs/1jLPeM7


BERLIN WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange said on Tuesday the group would publish about one million documents related to the U.S. election and three governments in coming weeks, but denied the release was aimed at damaging Hillary Clinton.
Assange, speaking via a video link, said the documents would be released before the end of the year, starting with an initial batch in the coming week.
Assange, 45, who remains at the Ecuadoran embassy in London where he sought refuge in 2012 to avoid possible extradition to Sweden, said the election material was "significant" and would come out before the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election.
He criticized Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate, for demonizing his WikiLeaks group's work after a spate of releases related to the Democratic National Committee before the Democratic political convention this summer.
Assange said her campaign had falsely suggested that accessing WikiLeaks data would expose users to malicious software.
But he denied the release of documents relating to the U.S. election was specifically aimed at damaging Clinton, saying he had been misquoted.
"The material that WikiLeaks is going to publish before the end of the year is of ... a very significant moment in different directions, affecting three powerful organizations in three different states as well as ... the U.S election process," he said via a video link at an event marking the group's 10th anniversary.
He said the material would focus on war, weapons, oil, mass surveillance, the technology giant Google and the U.S. election, but declined to give any details.
"There has been a misquoting of me and Wikileaks publications ... (suggesting) we intend to harm Hillary Clinton or I intend to harm Hillary Clinton or that I don't like Hillary Clinton. All those are false," he said.
Assange had told Fox News in an interview conducted by satellite in August that the group would release significant information related to Clinton's campaign.
Assange also signaled changes in the way WikiLeaks is organized and funded, saying the group would soon open itself to membership. He said the group was looking to expand its media ties beyond the 100 outlets it already works with.
He told journalists gathered at a Berlin theater that the group's work would continue, even if he had to resign in the future, and he appealed to supporters to fund its work. He also held up copies of several forthcoming books.
Assange and his attorney said Britain's vote to leave the European Union could complicate his situation by limiting his ability to appeal to the European Court of Justice or the Council of Europe, a European human rights body.
Asked how he felt after four years in the embassy, he said "pale" and joked he would be a good candidate for medical study since he was otherwise healthy but had not seen the sun in over four years.
Assange is wanted in Sweden for questioning about allegations that he committed rape in 2010. He denies the charges, and says he fears subsequent extradition to the United States, where a criminal investigation into the activities of WikiLeaks is underway.
In 2010, WikiLeaks released more than 90,000 secret documents on the U.S.-led military campaign in Afghanistan, followed by almost 400,000 U.S. military reports detailing operations in Iraq. Those disclosures were followed by the release of millions of diplomatic cables dating back to 1973.
 
BRUSSELS/KABUL World powers convened in Brussels on Tuesday to raise billions more dollars for Afghanistan to keep the country running until 2020, but hopes for a new start to peace talks were overshadowed by a surge in Taliban insurgent violence.
Fifteen years after the U.S. invasion that ousted Taliban rulers who harbored jihadists behind the attacks on New York and Washington, Afghanistan remains reliant on international aid and faces resurgent militants that threaten its progress.
The two-day, European Union-led donor conference is seeking fresh funds, despite Western public fatigue with their governments' involvement in Afghanistan. Around 70 governments, including the United States, Russia, Iran, China and India, are attending, with pledges to be made on Wednesday.
"We're buying four more years for Afghanistan," said EU Special Representative for Afghanistan Franz-Michael Mellbin.
EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini may try to bring together China, Iran, Russia, the United States, Pakistan and India on the sidelines of the conference in what would be the first concerted peace push since 2013.
"If we don't achieve peace, it's going to be extremely costly for the foreseeable future," Mellbin told Reuters.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met separately with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and chief executive Abdullah in Brussels on Tuesday, a day after Taliban insurgents briefly entered the center of the northern city of Kunduz, raising questions about Afghan defenses.
U.S. State Department spokesman John Kirby said Kerry and Afghan leaders discussed ways to strengthen the government and efforts by the United States and its allies to improve the capabilities of the country's security forces.
They also spoke about the need for continued reform to fight corruption and promote security, Kirby said.
A senior U.S. State Department official said the United States was prepared to restart a peace process "without any pre-conditions", and noted that after forty years of conflict, Afghans were tired of war. U.S. and EU officials have been encouraged by a smaller peace agreement last month between the Afghan government and a local warlord.
But a senior Indian diplomat questioned whether the Taliban was ready to make peace. The West wants Pakistan to do more to strike remaining militants. "The fact remains that at least the Afghan Taliban continue to enjoy safe havens in Pakistani territory," the U.S. official said.
Afghanistan remains one of the world's most dangerous countries, with 1.2 million Afghans forced to live as refugees in their own country and another 3 million living in Iran, Pakistan or seeking asylum in Europe.

KIDNAPPING, EXTORTION
A prosperous Afghanistan could mean fewer refugees into Europe, an end to its status as a haven for militant groups hostile to the West and more effective police action against its billion-dollar narcotics trade.
For Moscow, which invaded in 1979 and spent a decade trying to control the country, the stability of the central Asian region is paramount. It has its largest foreign military base on the Afghan border, in Tajikistan, and an interest in keeping out the drugs that are trafficked and consumed in Russia.
But even with billions of dollars spent by the United States and NATO for Afghan security forces, some 30 percent of the Afghan population lives in territory that the government does not fully control, according to Western officials.
At the Brussels conference, officials will pursue total pledges of $3 billion a year for the 2017-2020 period.
That is lower than the $4 billion a year pledged at the last conference in Tokyo in 2012, partly because Afghanistan is raising its own revenues and because of donor fatigue.
Eighty percent of Afghanistan's budget is financed by aid.
"That won't change until security improves and Afghan businesses can help the economy without fear of extortion or kidnapping," said Horia Mosadiq, an Afghanistan expert at Amnesty International.

ANKARA/ISTANBUL Turkish authorities suspended nearly 13,000 police officers, detained dozens of air force officers and shut down a TV station on Tuesday, widening a state-ordered clampdown against perceived enemies in the wake of July's failed coup.
The police headquarters said 12,801 officers, including 2,523 chiefs, were suspended because of their suspected links to U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Ankara accuses of orchestrating the attempt to overthrow the government.
Gulen, who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, denies any link to the coup attempt, which led to the deaths of more than 240 people.
The suspensions were ordered hours after Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus announced that the cabinet had approved a 90-day extension to a state of emergency, renewing President Tayyip Erdogan's powers to govern by decree at least until January.
The emergency extension, which parliamentary is likely to wave through, means Erdogan can take decisions without oversight of the Constitutional Court, Turkey's highest legal body.
As well as suspending five percent of the entire police force, the authorities detained 33 air force officers in raids across the country, the private Dogan news agency reported, and the transmission of TV station IMC was cut following accusations of spreading "terrorist propaganda".
State-run Anadolu Agency said 37 people working in the Interior Ministry's headquarters had also been removed from their posts, although no explanation was given.
Since the July 15 insurrection, Erdogan has taken steps to rid state institutions of staff deemed disloyal or potential enemies. About 100,000 people in the military, civil service, police, judiciary and universities have been sacked or suspended from their jobs, and 32,000 arrested.
The government says its aim is to rid institutions of links to Gulen, whose organization it calls a terrorist network.
One of the police officers suspended on Tuesday, a 26-year-old man, committed suicide by shooting himself in the head in a park in the Mediterranean city of Mersin, Dogan reported.

SYRIA OPERATIONS
The relentless crackdown has caused consternation among Turkey's Western allies and human rights groups, who fear Erdogan is using the unsuccessful coup as a pretext to curtail any dissent, while at the same time intensifying his moves against suspected Kurdish militants and sympathizers.
On Tuesday evening, the armed Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK) attacked a Turkish military outpost in the predominantly Kurdish southeast, in Diyarbikar province, killing two soldiers and wounding three others, the local governor said.
"An attack has been made by the divisive terrorist organization on military personnel," the governor's office said in a statement, using the usual terminology to describe the PKK.
In August, Turkish forces launched an offensive into northern Syria in support of rebels fighting against Islamic State, creating a security corridor along the Turkey-Syria border that also appears designed to push Kurdish militia away.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Tuesday that the YPG Kurdish militia, which is backed by the United States, was filling a vacuum left by Islamic State and said Turkish forces were prepared to go after Kurdish fighters in the same way.
"We know how to cleanse the PYD/YPG, just as we cleansed Daesh from Jarablus," he said, referring to Islamic State.
Ankara fears Kurdish militants fighting for greater autonomy in Turkey could benefit from turmoil in the region.
In a further sign of the government's desire to move rapidly to quell domestic opposition, Yildirim said the judicial process needed to be speeded up, especially when it came to prosecuting those accused of backing the coup.
"One of the main goals is shortening the time it takes to prosecute people," he said. "We are starting this with the July 15 coup plotters. We are doing this quickly."
While Turkey cracks down at home and expands its footprint in Syria, it also wants the United States to extradite Gulen so he can be prosecuted on charges that he masterminded the failed insurrection.
On Sunday, Turkish counter-terrorism police detained Gulen's brother in Izmir, where he was staying at a relative's house. Several of Gulen's relatives, including a nephew, niece and cousins, have been arrested since July 15.
Erdogan's security clampdown may be bolstering his own authority but it has had economic repercussions, with credit ratings agencies downgrading the country's debt to "junk" and the lira weakening against the dollar.
On Tuesday, Yildirim lowered the growth outlook for 2016, saying the economy was likely to expand 3.2 percent, well below an original 4.5 percent forecast, while inflation for the year is set to hit 7.5 percent.

ROME Pope Francis made a surprise visit on Tuesday to towns and villages devastated by an earthquake that killed nearly 300 people in central Italy in August, comforting residents who lost everything and praying together for the dead.
The Vatican, which kept the trip secret until he arrived, issued pictures showing him standing alone and praying amid the rubble of Amatrice, one of the hardest-hit towns, with its still-standing church bell tower in the distance.
Addressing distraught residents with a megaphone, he said he wanted to come earlier but he did not want "to bother anyone" and preferred to let things settle down, particularly the building of a makeshift school.
"From the first moment, I knew I wanted to come here, simply to say I am close to you. That I am close to you, nothing more. I pray for you," he said. "In this moment of sadness and pain, let's move forward while remembering our dear ones who died here under the rubble. Let us pray for them," he said.
He visited the "red zone", which covers the center of Amatrice and is closed to the public because it is still dangerous, with most of the buildings either leveled or considered too badly damaged to live in.
A parent broke down in tears in the school as he greeted the pope. Other residents stopped his car to touch his hand from the window as moved past tent cities to visit one devastated place after another, including Accumoli, Pescara del Tronto, Arquata del Tronto and San Pellegrino di Norcia.
The visit took place on the feast of the pope's namesake, St. Francis of Assisi.
He also visited a base camp for fire brigades and made a surprise stop to share a meal with residents of a home for the elderly, many of whom lost their houses in the quake.
Luca Cari, spokesman for the national fire brigades, said during the visit to Amatrice's "red zone" the pope stopped to pray with the rescue workers and thanked them.
On the plane returning from Azerbaijan on Sunday, Francis said he had been given a choice of three days when he could visit but would not reveal which one he had chosen.
He said he wanted to visit "privately, alone, as a priest, as a bishop, as pope, but alone, privately. I want to be close to the people."
The government estimates that the Aug. 24 earthquake northeast of Rome caused damage of at least 4 billion euros ($4.5 billion).

JOHANNESBURG Protesters at South Africa's Wits University overturned a police vehicle and threw stones at others on Tuesday as violence at nationwide demonstrations over high tuition fees escalated.
Police fired stun grenades, rubber bullets and tear gas at hundreds of students who marched through the university's campus in Johannesburg, dancing the "toyi-toyi" - a common display of protest throughout decades of struggle against white rule.
At least two people were arrested when police moved in to enforce a court order on public gathering at Wits - University of the Witwatersrand.
Demonstrations over the cost of university education, which is prohibitive for many black students, have highlighted frustration at enduring inequalities more than two decades after the end of apartheid.
"I am not sure free education is feasible. And I am worried about attacks on other students. It's inflicting fear in other students. It's not right," said one final-year law student, who was not taking part in the protest but did not want to give his name.
The square in front of the main hall on campus was strewn with spent shotgun shells and rocks after several skirmishes between police and protesters.
A police woman in riot gear hobbling from the scene with help from her colleagues told Reuters she had been hit in the leg with a stone thrown by protesters.
Protests first erupted last year, then eased off as the government froze fee increases and set up a commission to look into the education funding system.
The unrest boiled over again, closing some classes and universities, when the commission said on Sept. 19 that fees would continue to rise, albeit with an 8-percent cap in 2017.
"Following yesterday's harassment of our staff, we have no choice but to deploy police around campus," university spokeswoman Shirona Patel said.
She said the university, which shut during the earlier protests, had reopened on Monday, but some students had forced some of the lecturers out of their offices.
Wits said it would remain open, despite saying earlier that further demonstrations may force it to close.
"We know that the majority of students and staff want classes to continue and it is for this reason that we will once again resume the academic program tomorrow," Wits said in a statement.
University of Cape Town also said it would open as usual on Wednesday despite protests at its campuses.
University administrators across South Africa have warned that any further fee freezes could affect academic programs.

WASHINGTON The United States is looking at multilateral and unilateral options for dealing with the war in Syria going forward, including diplomatic, military, intelligence and economic options, the U.S. State Department said on Tuesday.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said that following the collapse of U.S.-Russian effort to achieve a cease-fire in Syria, the United States was "looking at a range of options," either working with other countries or alone.
"We always ... consider unilateral options when looking at a situation like Syria," he said. "But ... we're also looking ... at how we can leverage and work with the other members of the ISSG," the International Syria Support Group of countries.



WASHINGTON A U.S. service member was killed in Afghanistan's Nangarhar Province on Tuesday while carrying out operations against Islamic State, the U.S. military said in a statement.
"The service member was killed conducting operations with Afghan forces when the patrol triggered an Improvised Explosive Device," the statement said.
Islamic State has attracted hundreds, perhaps thousands, of fighters in Afghanistan and Pakistan to join its ranks, and holds some territory in Nangarhar. But it has not been able to expand its influence in Afghanistan beyond a few districts and the Taliban remain the dominant militant force.
Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook told reporters in Washington that an investigation was under way and he was not aware of any other casualties in the incident.
Thousands of U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan, with many recent air strikes and special operations missions aimed at Islamic State in Nangarhar, but they have also been helping Afghan forces fight Taliban elsewhere in the country.
According to Pentagon data, 1,832 U.S. service members have been killed in action in Afghanistan since 2001, when U.S.-led forces invaded the country and toppled the Taliban regime.

CAIRO Egypt's parliament approved a civil service law on Tuesday aimed at combating corruption and bureaucracy after making amendments to the bill, the only one it had previously rejected out of hundreds put forward by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.
Lawmakers voted 401 to 26 in favor of the law, which regulates about 6.5 million state employees. Sisi has said Egypt could manage with just 1 million, an indication of his intention to prune back drastically.
Thousands of government workers protested against the law when it was first issued, saying it reduced their benefits and allowed officials to promote whoever they liked to high-ranking posts, as opposed to the current system based on seniority.
Members of parliament made changes to restore some of the benefits and to make it harder to sack staff, though not as hard as before the bill was put forward.
The law also introduces performance reviews, which could lead to job losses. It is part of a difficult reform package that includes subsidy cuts and a new value-added tax.

CAIRO Egypt's interior ministry said on Tuesday its forces had killed a senior Muslim Brotherhood leader, whom it described as responsible for the group's "armed wing", as well as his aide in a shootout overnight.
Mohamed Kamal, 61, a member of the group's top leadership council, and Yasser Shehata, were killed when security forces raided an apartment in Cairo's southern Bassateen district, the ministry said.
A lawyer representing the two men's families told Reuters they both surrendered as soon as police arrived around 6 pm on Monday. "They went to the balcony and put their hands up in the air," said the lawyer who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal.
A group of policemen carried out the arrest and stayed with them in the apartment, while another group went to search Shehata's nearby apartment. At around 11:30 p.m. police concluded the search and shot the men, the lawyer said.
The forensic report said that both Kamal and Shehata were shot in the head, he added.
The Muslim Brotherhood said on its social media accounts that Kamal had disappeared on Monday afternoon, hours before the interior ministry announced his death.
Amr Darrag, a senior Brotherhood official exiled in Turkey, told Reuters that Kamal had not been involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation for months. He disputed the interior ministry's account that Kamal died in an exchange of fire, saying he was arrested and then killed.
"This could to lead to more irresponsible acts of violence by the young people. The youth are outraged," Darrag said.

PROMINENT LEADER
General-turned-president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi launched the toughest crackdown on Islamists in Egypt's modern history after toppling President Mohamed Mursi of the Brotherhood in mid-2013 following protests against his turbulent year in office.
Hundreds of Mursi supporters were killed by security forces as they cleared two protest camps in the capital, and thousands of the group's sympathisers were detained and sentenced to death in mass trials that drew condemnation from rights groups.
The Brotherhood, the world's oldest Islamist movement, was branded a terrorist organisation and banned. Most of its senior members have been arrested and driven into exile or underground.
The Brotherhood says it is a peaceful organisation and has condemned the crackdown. Sisi went on to win a presidential election by a landslide a year after his takeover.
The interior ministry said it had raided an apartment in Cairo on Monday night after learning that it was being used as a Brotherhood base and was met by gunfire from inside. It said its forces fired back, killing the two men inside.
Kamal was one of the most prominent leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood to remain at large and had been a member of the group's top-level Guidance Bureau. He had been in charge of the Supreme Administrative Committee, known as the youth committee, until May, when he resigned over differences with other leaders of the group.
Kamal had been sentenced to life in prison on two counts in absentia, according to the interior ministry statement.
Shehata was sentenced in absentia to 10 years in prison for assaulting a citizen and forcibly detaining him in the headquarters of the Brotherhood's political wing, it said.

KABUL Afghan forces regained control of most of the northern city of Kunduz on Tuesday amid sporadic fighting, officials said, as questions arose over how Taliban militants once again managed to penetrate the city's defenses.
The U.S. military in Kabul said that a "robust" group of special forces, as well as aircraft, were positioned near Kunduz to provide support to Afghan soldiers should the need arise.
Insurgents slipped past government forces early on Monday and occupied or attacked central areas of Kunduz, almost exactly a year after they briefly captured the city in one of their biggest successes of the 15-year war.
Social media accounts linked to the Taliban, which taunted Afghan forces and their Western backers throughout Monday's attack, said insurgents were still inside Kunduz on Tuesday, with "clashes ongoing" and government troops "on the run".
The attack in Kunduz, along with Taliban gains in areas of Helmand and Uruzgan where they also threaten provincial capitals, has underlined the group's growing strength and exposed weaknesses in Afghan defenses.
Government representatives are meeting international donors in Brussels this week to try to secure billions of dollars in additional aid.

DID POLICE RUN AWAY?
Questions dogged Afghan security forces on Tuesday, with the U.S. military reporting that it saw little evidence of significant fighting as the Taliban moved in.
Some witnesses said many police had abandoned checkpoints without firing a shot, a month after a similar scene played out during a Taliban raid on the provincial capital of Uruzgan province, Tarin Kot.
"The police did not fight yesterday," said Commander Ali, a local militia chief who, like many Afghans, only goes by one name. "Some fought in a few places, but a majority of them escaped without any resistance."
He estimated that about 200 Taliban attackers quickly sent thousands of security personnel, mostly police, fleeing to the army base near the city's airport.
That account was supported by another local police commander, who said senior leadership had failed to back up those police officers who did fight, while the army arrived after the fact.
"At some checkpoints police fought well, but they did not get reinforcement," said the commander, who spoke on condition of anonymity as he was not authorized to speak publicly.
In Washington on Monday, Pentagon spokesman Captain Jeff Davis told reporters the Taliban attack was more of a "Western-movie style shoot-them-up" raid than a concerted military offensive.
Afghan Defence Ministry spokesman Dawlat Waziri said no checkpoints held by army troops had been abandoned.
Afghan officials are investigating how the Taliban managed to thrust into the city's center despite months of military operations aimed at preventing a repeat of last year's debacle, Ministry of Interior spokesman Sediq Sediqqi told reporters in Kabul. "Right now we are focusing on clearing the city."

FIVE AFGHAN SECURITY PERSONNEL KILLED
Residents blamed ethnic and political divisions within the city's leadership for the failure of local security forces to prevent the Taliban raid.
There is a culture of impunity for police and other armed forces that are often more loyal to local strongmen than to the central government, the second police commander said.
Much of the effort to push the Taliban out of the city was led by elite Afghan military and police special forces, many of whom arrived from other cities.
Backed by U.S. special forces and air support as well as warplanes of their own, Afghan soldiers sought to clear the city overnight, said Kunduz police chief Qasim Jangalbagh.
Taliban fighters, seeking to reimpose strict Islamic law after their 2001 ouster, remained in several areas of Kunduz, but Afghan forces had made progress, he added.
"We have received reinforcements and have air support. We are committed to clear the city."
By nightfall on Tuesday pockets of Taliban resistance remained, many barricaded in civilian houses, said Sheer Aziz Kamawal, commander for the 808th Police Zone.
As the Taliban were pushed out, they set fire to various buildings in the city, including a power station and several markets and shops, he said.
The attack was likely timed by the Taliban to "make noise" before the donor conference in Brussels, said Timor Sharan, a senior analyst for the International Crisis Group.
"The Taliban wanted to maneuver, raise their flag and then quickly leave. The Taliban know that they are not capable of holding on the city center."
Five members of government security forces had been killed, with another 13 wounded, Waziri of the defense ministry said.
U.S. attack helicopters conducted at least three air strikes "to defend friendly forces" fighting in Kunduz, the U.S. military command in Kabul said.
Elsewhere in Afghanistan, officials said at least a dozen members of the Afghan security forces were killed in fighting in Helmand province, while one American soldier died in a roadside bomb attack in eastern Nangarhar province.

MUMBAI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Indian officials have been slow to implement a landmark law giving rights to forests to indigenous people because they view it as a handicap to development projects spurring expansion in the fast-growing economy, a land rights campaigner said.
The 2006 Forest Rights Act aims to improve the lives of impoverished tribes by recognizing their right to inhabit and live off forests where their forefathers settled.
Under the law, at least 150 million people could have their rights recognized to a minimum of 40 million hectares (154,400 sq miles) of forest land, the Rights and Resources Initiative (RRI) estimated.
But the group, which promotes access to land and natural resources, says barely 1.2 percent of the area has been recorded in the last decade.
"There is a genuine misunderstanding among the political class that if you grant rights, it will be against development," said Arvind Khare, an executive director at RRI in New Delhi.
"There is fierce competition among the states for investment in infrastructure and mining. The law is seen as an impediment to this," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
Indigenous people hold legal titles to only about 5 percent of the land they have lived on.
By recognizing community forest rights and resource rights, the Forest Rights Act could transform forest governance and rural livelihoods, paving the way for the "largest land reform ever" in India, RRI said last year.
Yet few states have implemented the law fully, and more than half of all claims for titles have been rejected, according to recent data from the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. Eleven of India's 29 states did not award any titles in the past year.
The law gives village councils the right to approve projects that require forest land to be cleared. This has pitted states keen on development against indigenous people who say their livelihoods are threatened.
"There is very little awareness of the law amongst people, and most claims are rejected on very flimsy grounds," Khare said.
"But allocating land to industry without settling rights will backfire," he said.
Conflict over land rights has increased in India as land is sought for industrial use and development projects in one of the world's fastest growing economies.
Forest land is primarily located in the country's poorest areas, including some that are racked by extremist violence.
Four people were killed at the weekend when police opened fire on villagers protesting the takeover of their land for a coal mine in the eastern state of Jharkhand.
The state had earlier approved amendments to two laws to enable the acquisition of tribal land for commercial use.
Government authorities are ignoring evidence that use of forests by local communities can enhance food and livelihood security, and that recognition of community forest rights can lead to development in tribal and forest areas, Khare said.
Thanks largely to the efforts of a handful of states including Odisha, Chattisgarh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, more than 0.5 million hectares of forest land could be recognized this year, Khare estimates.
"But by and large, there is little pressure on the states to recognize forest rights. So we will continue to see big struggles, big conflicts over our forest lands," he said.
