
Some Australian real estate agents are updating their rental leases to stop tenants from secretly subletting properties on Airbnb.

One lease, seen by the ABC, said the tenant must not use Airbnb without the "written consent" of the landlord in each instance.
Candice Deane, a senior property manager in Melbourne, said this clause gave landlords more protection.

"Security and maintenance are the main issues, and if we approve that tenant, we want that person to be the person in the property," Ms Deane told the ABC.
"We discourage [sub-letting on Airbnb]. We don't motivate it and we don't want it to happen."
Ms Deane said in one case, she discovered a tenant was renting out an apartment on Airbnb while they were away on holidays.
"She was leaving keys in the mailbox for people to come and collect. So quite a few of the other occupants got really concerned about keys being left, who's getting them and what's going to happen to her apartment," Ms Deane said.
"She was also asked to leave."
In another instance, a Melbourne tenant was making thousands of dollars a month by hosting Airbnb guests full time in a leased apartment.


Malcolm Gunning, president of the Real Estate Institute of Australia, said agents had been forced to take more control over sub-letting.
"It's primarily apartments where the biggest impact is, but even [for] a terrace house or home, the owner wants to know how many people are going to live in it because of the impact on the services," he said.
"If a property is really intended for two and you have six, that's three times the impact on the property itself. Water usage, the hydraulics, the sewage system, and just wear and tear in the house."

Airbnb Australia's Brent Thomas said all people had a right to share the home they lived in, regardless of whether they were an owner or renter.
"Home sharing helps everyday Australians earn a little extra money to pay for their biggest expense — the cost of their housing," he told the ABC.
"We ask all hosts to certify they have permission to list their space and remind them to check and follow local rules before they list and throughout the year.
"A tenant who shares a spare room whilst they're living there or the whole home whilst they're away on holidays is actually a good use of their home."
Airbnb has an insurance program called Host Guarantee, which provides protection for up to $1 million for eligible hosts for damages.
Sydney-based landlord Patrick Morrisey has leased out his rural property in the Byron Bay hinterland for the past few years.
His past two tenants sub-let rooms on Airbnb without his knowledge.
He said he was alarmed when he found out, because it raised liability issues and increased maintenance costs.

"The first time I visited, I saw a sign on the front fence and a new name had gone on the property. So I Googled that and it came up on Airbnb," he said.
"And with the second set of tenants, a friend of mine flicked me the page from the Airbnb site."
He said he set the rent so that local residents could afford to live there, and he did not intend for it to be run as a tourist operation.
"I found it quite distressing because the rent was really set at a price for affordable accommodation for locals, and those people were missing out on those opportunities because my tenant preferred to have tourists coming to stay on a one-nightly basis," Mr Morrisey said.
"I found it to be unfair and it put more risk on me as a landlord because we never had any discussions along those lines and they were doing things without permission."
He said once his current lease ended, he would take on a lease that specifically addressed Airbnb.
Ned Cutcher from the Tenants Union of New South Wales believes a renter should be allowed to share their leased property on Airbnb — as long as they bear responsibility for any problems.
"It's the kind of decision a rational adult person should be able to make about their housing," Mr Cutcher said.
"The idea that because your household is established with a residential tenancy agreement rather than a mortgage, that you should somehow be restricted in the decisions that you can make is something that I struggle with."
Mr Cutcher said hosting an Airbnb guest was no different to a renter choosing to bring in a flatmate or sub-letting the property while on holidays.
"In Australia we have this idea that property equals wealth. And I think that it's fair enough that some tenants would want to try and tap into that a little bit as well," Mr Cutcher said.
"I don't see any kind of moral problem with a tenant seeking to profit from their interest in a property in the same way as anyone else would."
However, Mr Cutcher said he drew the line at tenants who leased a property to run as a full-time Airbnb without the knowledge of the owner.
"The idea that you're sharing available space while you're away is one thing. But if you've actually adopted a business model to extract the most value out of a property by letting it out on Airbnb, I do think that's a problem," he said.
Mining magnate Gina Rinehart's company is confident it is only months away from winning Chinese Government approval to start exporting cattle to China.

In an exclusive interview with the ABC, Hancock Prospecting chief executive Garry Korte said the approval would likely remove a major Chinese barrier to the shipment of cattle from northern Australia.
China has strict biosecurity regulations that have made it difficult for the live-export industry to establish a viable trade with the Asian powerhouse.
Mr Korte said discussions were "well progressed" and added: "We're very confident that that approval will be forthcoming in the next six months."
Industry analysts have said such an approval would be a game-changer.
Hancock Prospecting recently signed a strategic cooperation agreement with a Chinese consortium, Zhejiang Aozhou Cattle Industry Co Ltd, to create a joint-venture beef supply chain.
Under the non-binding agreement, 150,000 cattle a year — rising to 300,000 — would be shipped primarily from northern Australian ports to Jintang Island, south of Shanghai, where they would be processed and the beef sold in China, Hancock said.
The cattle would come from Hancock stations, which currently supply other live-export markets, and any shortfall would be sourced from other exporters, Mr Korte said.
China imposes strict quarantine rules around the import of livestock, which may be infected with an insect-transmitted virus known as bluetongue.
Most of Australia's northern cattle are in the virus risk zone.
"At the moment there's a restriction on the export of cattle from northern Australia from the bluetongue zone directly into mainland China," Mr Korte said.

But he said Hancock has been negotiating a protocol that would get around the problem.
"Jintang Island is isolated from the mainland and there's strong support from the Chinese Government to develop an export protocol which would allow us to … live-export cattle into Jintang, which is effectively a quarantined area," Mr Korte explained.
"The cattle will be … processed on Jintang Island where they'll be marketed and distributed into the Yangtze Delta region.
"There's a population of about 200 million people, so it's a significant market that we're targeting.
"With a little bit of luck we should be able to start export towards the end of next year."

Industry consultant Cameron Hall, a former chief executive of the Australian Livestock Export Corporation, said if that was the case: "I think that's a significant step forward, for particularly northern pastoralists and northern cattle producers."
Mr Hall organised and oversaw Australia's first shipment of 1,200 live slaughter and feeder cattle to China in February this year.
The shipment from Portland in Victoria to Shidao in north-eastern China was effectively a test-run for the bilateral live-trade agreement reached 18 months earlier.
Tim Kelf, who spent three decades with Meat and Livestock Australia (MLA) developing the nation's beef-export trade with Asia, said he was "mesmerised" by the Hancock plan.
"It's a brilliant idea," he said.
"They're using this island as a stepping point to getting in there, I think it makes it easier for us [the northern cattle industry] to get into the mainland.
"From Gina Rinehart's perspective, taking advantage of the opportunity now, being the first mover — all those things is just brilliant.
"If she does well, other people are able to follow on behind. What she is doing is taking over the whole supply chain.
"I think it's quite clever. She's got the money, she's got the connections, she gets the right people and she's laughing. I mean it's a great way to go."
Mr Korte said construction of the feedlot and processing centre on Jintang Island, which is being developed as an Australia-China free-trade zone, would "start towards the end of this year".
Hancock is still finalising the amount of its investment in the joint venture.
"We are still having a look at the investment proposal and once we've been able to go through that and understand further detail around the transaction we will then make a decision," Mr Korte said.
Any joint-venture deal would be subject to Foreign Investment Review Board and Chinese Government approvals, he said.
Watch 'Gina's Stampede' on Landline this Sunday at midday on ABC TV.
Federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten has vowed to reverse cuts to Sunday penalty rates if Labor wins the next election.
Mr Shorten made the pledge at an Australian Council of Trade Unions conference in Sydney, as workers in the retail, hospitality and fast-food sectors prepare for a reduction in their take-home pay from this weekend.
"Tonight I give you this solemn pledge for the fight beyond July 1," he said.
"A new Labor government will restore the Sunday penalty rates of every single worker affected by this cut.
"And we will change the law — to protect the take-home pay of working Australians into the future."
But Mr Shorten has stopped short of offering affected workers compensation, or forcing businesses to back-pay them.
Labor has been fiercely campaigning against the Fair Work Commission's ruling and tried to pressure the Coalition to intervene by introducing a private members' bill into Parliament to block the cuts.
While the Coalition has stood by the Commission's decision, Government backbencher George Christensen crossed the floor to vote with Labor on an amendment to protect weekend penalty rates.
That vote was narrowly defeated by 73 votes to 72.
This is the first time Mr Shorten has vowed to reverse the cuts if he wins office, creating a clear policy division between Labor and the Coalition leading up to the next election.
The changes will come into effect from Saturday and will be gradually phased in over three years.
The Council of Small Business of Australia (COSBOA) lashed out at Labor's pledge, arguing it undermined the independence of the wage and condition review process.
"That's a vote of no confidence in the Fair Work Commission, that's all it is," COSBOA chief executive Peter Strong told AM.
"The Fair Work Commission's made one decision they don't like, and they're going to undo it, so why do we have a Fair Work Commission?
"And there's the uncertainty that's been created now — if the Fair Work Commission makes a decision that the government or an opposition don't like, well they can just wait until they're in government and undo it."
Mr Strong argued Mr Shorten was twisting the situation for his own political gain.
"The penalty rate debate is to Bill Shorten what the carbon tax was for Tony Abbott," he said.
"There's no facts around them, it's all about emotion, it's all about rhetoric, and it's all about trying to win an election on that fact."
The South Australian Liberals may still oppose the State Government's new banking levy despite earlier indicating they would not fight the budget measure.
On Friday and over the weekend, SA Liberal leader Steven Marshall indicated the party would not oppose the measure to impose a 0.015 per cent impost on 6 per cent of major banks' liabilities, despite a push from the Australian Conservatives to block the bill.
But on a day he met with senior ANZ executives who flew in to Adelaide to lobby the Government against the tax, Mr Marshall said the Liberal Party room was yet to land on a firm position.
"We have to make a decision that's in the best interest of all South Australians," he said.
"And that's what our party room will be considering."
The new levy effectively doubles the impact of the Commonwealth Government's own tax within South Australian borders.
ANZ chief executive Shayne Elliot, who today met with Premier Jay Weatherill and Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis as well, last week lashed out at the SA levy.

"The deeply concerning tax would likely impact business investment in South Australia when its economy is struggling with low growth, low business confidence and high unemployment," he said.
"All businesses will rightly question the political risk associated with investing in a state with a Government prepared to unfairly target an industry that has played a significant role in supporting its lagging economy.
"South Australia does not need another drag on its economy after the repeated power failures over the last few years."
Mr Weatherill said he and Mr Koutsantonis exchanged views with Mr Elliot on the bank levy, "and agreed to maintain an open dialogue".
After years of double-digit house-price growth in Melbourne and Sydney — things are looking up for first home buyers.
Cuts to stamp duty from July 1 in Victoria and New South Wales will help would-be buyers trying to break into the housing market, as conditions gets tougher for investors.
"There is a window there for first-home buyers and not having a situation we've had in the past, a la the first-home owners scheme which did boost prices," property analyst Louis Christopher said.
Melburnian Pru Kasby has been apartment hunting in the city's inner north for two months.
"It's been pretty difficult to find something affordable and in our price range," she said.
"It's obviously been highly competitive."
But she is hopeful the $30,000 she will save in stamp duty will make it more affordable.
"That's a lot, that's a large portion of our deposit," Ms Kasby said.
"Particularly in the price range we're looking at, that's a significant amount of money to us."

On Monday night, the Victorian Government passed its housing affordability package, which means from July 1 first-home buyers purchasing a property under $600,000 will not pay a cent in stamp duty, and there will be a sliding scale of concessions for properties worth up to $750,000.
There is a similar scheme being introduced in New South Wales too, where homes up to $650,000 will be exempt from stamp duty, and there will be concessions on homes up to $800,000.
Real estate agents said first-home buyers, which make up to around 13 per cent of the market according to the ABS, have been holding off buying until the stamp duty changes.
"As you can imagine, a lot of them are waiting for the day to click over before they purchase their property," agent Andrew Wood said.
Mr Christopher said he had noticed fewer buyers in the marketplace.
"Particularly in New South Wales, where clearance rates have slipped a bit," he said.
"It does indicate to us there has not been as much buyer demand."
The booming prices has largely been driven by investors.
So, at the same time as the stamp duty cuts, investors will start paying more.
And that, coupled with bank restrictions in lending and across-the-board increases in interest only loans means investors are slowly leaving the market.
Agents in regional areas, where most houses fall below half-a-million dollars, told the ABC they were seeing a glut of properties on the market.
"They are regional townships so I'm not expecting prices to boom once we click over July 1, but nevertheless there will be an advantage for first home buyers because surplus of stock," Mr Christopher said.
But Mr Wood said it could be sellers who end up the benefiting from the changes in stamp duty.
"It could either be the sellers taking advantage or it could be buyers going along to an auction knowing they have $500,000 plus stamp duty so now they can make a few more bids," he said.
Mr Christopher said all eyes should be on the next month's clearance rates.
"It is also possible we may see a turning point in the market in Sydney and Melbourne," he said.
"If we see clearance rates consistently fall below 65 per cent in Sydney and 70 per cent in Melbourne it may herald a significant slow-down in the market."
External cladding similar to the deadly material used on the Grenfell Tower block in London has been discovered on a four-storey accommodation block for homeless youth in the inner Perth suburb of Leederville.
The apartment block is owned by the Housing Authority and is run by Foundation Housing in conjunction with Anglicare as transitional housing for at-risk youth between the ages of 16 and 25.
The British Government conducting safety checks on an estimated 600 high-rise buildings in England after at least 79 people died when fire consumed the London tower block earlier this month.
Exterior cladding panels added during a recent refurbishment of Grenfell have been blamed for the rapid spread of the blaze.

Housing Minister Peter Tinley told Parliament this afternoon the cladding on the Leederville building contained "combustible material and is not compliant with the building code of Australia".
"Until such time as it can be rectified, Foundation Housing has commissioned 24-hour security on site in order to mitigate any risk," he said.
He said he was advised of the situation yesterday and the safety of tenants was his "highest priority".
Mr Tinley told Parliament last week that aluminium cladding panels used by the Housing Authority in its properties were "quite different" to those used at Grenfell and all were compliant with building codes.
Foyer Oxford has 98 apartments, 21 of which have two bedrooms for young parents and their children, as well as a cafe and a Pilates studio.
Foundation Housing chief executive Kathleen Gregory said a fire-safety audit was done immediately after the concerns were raised "about a week ago".
"None of the advice that we've received indicates that we need to evacuate the building," she said.

She said the building had "up-to-date fire safety features" but additional CCTV cameras and thermal sensors would be installed.
The building's cladding had been supplied by a Melbourne company, business development manager Chris Smith said.
WA Building Commissioner Peter Gow said Foundation Housing had "acted very promptly and we're satisfied with what they are doing and they have brought in appropriate experts to do the work."
"We haven't got the details of precisely what has been used there so I can't say that it was exactly the same [as that used on Grenfell] but it's combustible and it's likely to be a similar sort of material," he told ABC Radio Perth.
"There is a difference here with London — this is a new building, not a refurbished building, so we expect it to have more fire safety requirements than the older buildings in London, and secondly, it's only around a four-storey building."
The $23-million building, completed in 2014, won the 2015 Premier's Awards for Excellence in Public Sector Management.
Foyer Oxford's website says its "world class complex" is "the largest single-site homelessness service for young people in Australia".
The Master Builders Association of WA said it was surprised to learn that the non-compliant cladding had been used on a building in Perth.
Director Michael McLean suspected the product had been imported from overseas.
"It would surprise me even more if it was Australian manufactured because the standards in Australia are particularly high," Mr McLean said.
"If the product is combustible, as we're led to believe, then that clearly needs to be addressed, particularly as its a residential complex."
He said while a wider audit should be considered, ultimately the onus was on building owners to ensure their properties were safe.
"The Building Commission has a role to play in this matter to determine the extent of this problem but I think all owners of buildings should take responsibility for the safety of those buildings," he said.

A former staff member claims fallen education giant Careers Australia aggressively targeted higher education taxpayer funding while it was already under severe financial stress.

Last month Careers Australia collapsed, going into voluntary administration and leaving 15,000 students and 1,100 staff facing uncertain futures.
The company has been plagued by accusations it made hundreds of millions of dollars from vocational education by using dubious sales tactics which pressured vulnerable students into enrolling.
A crackdown on the scandal-plagued sector, announced by the Turnbull Government last year, resulted in Careers Australia being refused entry to a new VET student loans scheme in April.
Inside sources have told 7.30 that Careers Australia was prepared for the crackdown and planned to switch focus to another area of taxpayer funding.
The plan, the sources said, was to aggressively target higher education using the tertiary FEE-HELP loans scheme, which was untouched by the crackdown, and rapidly enrol thousands of new domestic students in the Australian School of Management (ASM).
ASM is chaired by the former senior Government minister Andrew Robb and promoted by Masterchef's George Calombaris.

In March ASM announced plans to enrol almost 9,000 new students at a potential cost to the taxpayer of $87 million.
The plan is confirmed in court documents obtained by 7.30.
In an internal briefing note the ASM wrote its recruitment strategy included targeting "prospective students from marginalised communities requiring an employment focused and supported higher education experience".
A former staff member, who requested anonymity because they are looking for new employment, also told 7.30 about Careers Australia's plan.
"The tried and tested volume based sales model employed by Careers Australia [for vocational education] was re-applied with thousands of students enrolled into online courses through ASM in the few months between late 2016 and early 2017," they said.
7.30 can now reveal this began in September using rogue education broker Acquire Learning.
The deal was done despite Acquire having an ongoing prosecution against it by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
In May the Federal Court found Acquire had used misleading and deceptive sales tactics involving prospective students and fined it $4.5 million.
"The people in charge of student recruitment were the same, and Careers Australia even went as far as making hundreds of CA sales staff redundant and replaced them with Acquire staff," the former staff member said.

Michael Moxon, 28, was one of the students targeted.
After applying for a sales manager job online he received a phone call offering help in his search for employment.
Mr Moxon signed up for an online Diploma of Business with the ASM.
"The caller said, 'we're a recruitment company trying to help people educate themselves and get a step up in their career'," Mr Moxon told 7.30.
He now feels like he was preyed upon.
"There's a certain level of desperation there because you apply for hundreds and sometimes thousands of jobs and you might only get one or two phone calls back, so when you do get that phone call your hopes are up," he said.
"It wasn't obvious that they were being paid to get me into that course at first, it seemed like it was just an organisation trying to help people advance their careers.
"This should never have happened."

In December, Careers Australia made another deft move to continue its relationship with Acquire and get around a Turnbull Government ban on education brokers.
It employed more than 100 Acquire staff directly, used Acquire's call centre software and took over its Melbourne office.
It also paid the Acquire-owned employment website, Career One, to obtain jobseekers' details in order to recruit students.
The head of the Australian Council for Private Education and Training (ACPET), Rod Camm, told 7.30 he was outraged.
"That is just an unbelievable revelation,"  he said.
"The fact that they've switched it to their higher education arm, that's just a complete disregard for [Education Minister Simon] Birmingham's rules.
"Pretty much wherever I go in this industry, colleges talk about the predatory practices of Acquire Learning."
Careers Australia was formerly a member of the peak body, ACPET.
Its senior management had promised Mr Camm it had severed ties with Acquire Learning.
"I'm incredibly disappointed and a little bit angry after all that we've learnt in our sector, to have gotten back in bed with the organisation (Acquire) that caused the problems in the first place, I just find that unbelievable," he said.
"The industry has to have the gloves off and make sure we have to remove this unethical behaviour from our industry."
However, the plan involving the ASM failed because the tertiary education regulator TEQSA intervened.

ASM has now had its registration cancelled for failing to meet the standards demanded of higher education providers.
Mr Robb declined to be interviewed about his involvement with the ASM saying instead we should speak with CEO David Ensor. He did not respond to 7.30's requests.
One of the key figures behind Careers Australia is managing director Patrick McKendry, who is also a director of the ASM.
He too did not respond to repeated requests for an interview.
Mr Camm said senior figures inside Careers Australia must provide the public with an explanation.
"I do want the governing bodies of these organisations to come clean and tell us what happened and what was the approach and why was it allowed to unfold under their watch," he said.
"I'd like to talk to Patrick [McKendry] about precisely what did happen. Patrick has to be able to help our industry and tell us what happened."
The administrators for Careers Australia will recommend the organisation be liquidated at a meeting this Friday.
Customers of Commonwealth Bank who are making interest-only variable mortgage repayments may want to consider switching out of that arrangement.
Australia's largest bank has joined the other big three banks in lifting interest-only mortgage rates in an attempt to de-risk its lending portfolio and comply with regulatory requirements.
CBA customers who are making interest-only home loan repayments will see their rates rise by 30 basis points - or 0.3 percentage points - from July 7.
For owner-occupiers, the interest-only rate will lift to 5.77 per cent per annum.
Investor rates will rise to 6.24 per cent.
However, those who are paying off principal and interest on their home loans will see a small drop in their yearly repayments - down by 0.03 percentage points.
"These interest only changes are not in response to the bank levy that was announced as part of the Federal Budget in May," CBA said in its statement.
It seems the main driver of these changes are new lending rules from the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
APRA is demanding that the banks cut back on their new interest-only lending to less than 30 per cent of new loans.
These changes are expected to affect property investors, who regulators see as a key risk in the housing market.
CBA noted that "around 80 per cent" of its customers are on principal and interest repayments.
CBA variable home loan rates from July 7
CBA is the latest of the big four banks to penalise interest-only borrowers, who have faced rate hikes and tougher lending restrictions for much of this year.
ANZ raised its interest-only loan rates earlier this month, while Westpac and NAB followed with their equivalent hikes last week.
Big four banks: Comparison of annual repayments for interest-only mortgages
The bank which lifted its interest rates by the most was NAB (0.35 per cent).
As for the bank with the highest interest-only rates, that honour goes to Westpac - 5.83 per cent for owner-occupiers and 6.30 per cent for investors.
The lowest interest only owner-occupier interest rate is with ANZ (5.75 per cent).
CBA's investor interest-only rate is the lowest at 6.24 per cent.
The Queensland Government is trying to capitalise on Sydney's sky-high property prices by making a brazen pitch to convince families to move north where property is more affordable.

It has launched the "Queensland Move Up in the World" advertising campaign which spruiks the benefits of cheaper houses, shorter commutes and sunnier weather.
But the state's Treasurer Curtis Pitt also tried to convince potential future sunshine state residents of the advantage of switching State of Origin teams, presenting two Sydney families who are making the move with Maroons jerseys.
"The one thing we know is if you come to Queensland, you're going to get more affordable housing, lower state taxes and you're going to get a better rugby league team," he said as he stood in front of Sydney Football Stadium.
But Sydneysider Joe Prince, who is moving to Cairns this week with his wife Rachel and their three daughters, was not sold on switching teams.

"Absolutely not, and I'll still go for the Sharks too," he said.
His wife Rachel said there would be many lifestyle benefits of moving.
"There's a lot in Sydney, but you just don't utilise it because there's so many people on the roads and everyone is so busy all the time, so I feel the lifestyle change will be great for everybody," she said.

Julian Lamb, who is planning a move to Brisbane with his wife Nicolette and their three daughters, said cheaper housing was the driving factor behind his family's decision.
"We want to be homeowners and we just can't afford it in Sydney, it's half the price for a four bedroom house in Brisbane," he said.
Mr Lamb said his only concern was finding work, but he believed there were enough opportunities.
"So we're going to take the risk and we think it will pay off," he said.
The proponents of a $280-million wind farm on Tasmania's west coast have cleared a major hurdle, striking an in-principle deal for energy supply.
WestCoast Wind plans to build a 33-turbine wind farm at Granville Harbour which could power as many as 40,000 homes.
The project is expected to create about 200 jobs during its construction, and eight permanent jobs.
The Tasmanian Government announced an in-principle deal to buy the wind energy.
Energy Minister Matthew Groom said the deal was with the state-owned monopoly power supplier Hydro Tasmania.
"The Cabinet has endorsed Hydro Tasmania entering into an agreement to purchase the power for the Granville Harbour wind farm," he said.
That deal involves Hydro buying about 360 gigawatt hours of energy and renewable energy certificates a year from the proposed wind farm.
The announcement comes after Tasmania's unprecedented energy crisis last year, which saw the state fighting to keep the lights on.
Mr Groom said new renewable development was crucial to ensure the state avoided a repeat.
"It is important from an energy security perspective," he said.

WestCoast Wind's Alex Simpson said the priority now was securing a primary investor.
"We've got a number of investors that are champing at the bit to take this on, but there's quite a rigorous process and robust process that we are going through," he said.
Mr Simpson said he would be ensuring the selected investor would be "committed totally to the project but also the people on the west coast".
The company wants construction and initial works to start in September and to be completed by early 2019.
The announcement follows a similar deal for a $350-million wind farm construction in the Central Highlands earlier this month.
Hydro Tasmania's Steve Davy said it was encouraging to see the increased focus on renewables.
"The proposed Granville Harbour and Cattle Hill wind farms contribute towards plans to make Tasmania the battery of the nation," he said.
A Queensland Government investment vehicle has held talks about investing in the Galilee Basin coal mining region, raising speculation it may help bankroll infrastructure for the controversial Adani mine.
The Queensland Investment Corporation (QIC), established by the state government, held discussions with the Queensland Treasury in February about the prospect of QIC investing in projects that would mine, transport or export coal from the Galilee Basin region, documents released under the state's Right to Information laws show.
The documents were almost entirely redacted, with the Queensland Treasury determining that releasing details would prejudice QIC's business interests as the information "could be used by a competitor to cause commercial harm to the QIC and/or disadvantage QIC in the pursuit of the investment in potential projects".
But the very existence of the documents shows that investing in the Galilee Basin has "at least come up in discussion between the Queensland Treasury and QIC," according to Julien Vincent from Market Forces, which has been opposing the Adani mine project and the opening up of the country's last untapped coal basin.
"The Queensland Government owes it to the public to clarify whether they are pushing QIC to invest in proposed Galilee Basin coal mines," he said.
Various superannuation funds - including the Queensland public servant funds QSuper and SunSuper, and the large industry fund HOSTplus - have moneys invested through QIC.
India's Adani Group has environmental and mining approvals for a giant coal mining project in the Galilee Basin which could involve underground pits and open cut mining, a railway line to the coast and the expansion of the Abbott Point Coal Terminal adjacent to the world heritage listed Great Barrier Reef.
But Adani has been struggling to gain financial backing for the proposal, with more than 20 banks around the world refusing to finance it either because of concerns about its environmental impact, perceived investment risk, or both.
Queensland Investment Corporation has denied considering investing in Adani's Carmichael coal mine.
"QIC does not invest directly in mines and has not been approached to invest directly in the Adani mine," said a spokesperson for the corporation.
However, this statement does not categorically rule out a possible investment in infrastructure related to the mine.
Both QIC and the Queensland Government have emphasised that the investment fund is independent of government control.
"QIC is legislatively independent from government in its investment decision making," the QIC spokesperson said.
"The Queensland Government has not instructed QIC to invest in Galilee Basin or Adani coal projects nor does the Government interfere in QIC's investment mandate and their related decisions," added a spokesperson for the Queensland Treasurer.

On an old industrial site in Adelaide, an ambitious project is underway to build Australia's most sustainable apartment block.
The Prince's Charities Australia, Renewal SA and Defence Housing Australia (DHA) are working together to construct the country's first six-star, green star apartments.
They are being built under strict Green Building Council of Australia guidelines and will use 50 per cent less electricity and potable water than standard households.
"The materials are all sourced in an environmentally sustainable way, while maximising the local materials to reduce the carbon footprint," DHA regional manager James Wallace said.
"Every nut, bolt, piece of timber is certified as a sustainable product."

Builder Daniel Palumbo has more than three decades in the construction industry, but said this project had provided him with many firsts.
"One of the challenges is finding trades [people] who have experience with the new products that are available for these kinds of builds," he said.
The use of foam block, slurry concrete walls and double-glazed windows meant the apartments' insulation levels would be more than double that of normal brick.

The apartments are also being fitted with roof ventilators, wall grills and ceiling fans to reduce air conditioner and heater use.
"The core filling [of the walls] to get the environmental ratings that we wanted has fire ash and slag mixed into the concrete," Mr Palumbo said.
"We have double-glazed windows, sustainably sourced timber, locally sourced steel, water-efficient fixtures, and environmentally friendly plasterboard, carpets, doors and hardware.
"Absolutely everything that has gone into the build is not the norm of what goes into a normal house."
For contracts manager Jayden Tucker, every piece of the project must be validated and accounted for — including when it is no longer needed.
Waste at the site is being sorted into three industrial bins; for general, concrete and steel waste.

"The steel and the concrete is recycled 100 per cent," Mr Tucker said.
"Overall we have been recycling [waste] at about 97 per cent."
"This is a direction that the industry is heading," the DHA's Mr Wallace said.
"This is a project we have undertaken as a demonstration so that we can learn how we can do things better in our future developments."
The apartments are expected to be completed by November.
South Australia's sky-high electricity prices have forced an Adelaide plastics recycling business to shut its doors, costing 35 workers their jobs, its managing director says.
Plastics Granulating Services (PGS), based in Kilburn in Adelaide's inner-north, said it had seen its monthly power bills increase from $80,000 to $180,000 over the past 18 months.

Managing director Stephen Scherer said the high cost of power had crippled his business of 38 years and plans for expansion, and had led to his company being placed in liquidation.
"It's where the cash went out of the business, and without the cash, we couldn't service what we needed to service," he said.
"We were basically marking time, draining ourselves of cash.
"I hate to think of how many hours I've wasted on the AEMO website with tools to monitor spot pricing, to assess the implications of power, the trends of power and the future costs of power.
"I know way too much about power for someone who is supposed to recycle plastic."
PGS processed domestic, low-grade waste and turned it into plastic granules, to be converted back into other industrial products like irrigation piping and flower pots.

Mr Scherer said his facility was the only recycling service of its kind left in South Australia.
"We process about 10,000 tonnes of plastic waste [and] that's now currently turned off, so South Australia won't be recycling 10,000 tonnes [of plastic]," he said.

"To scope 10,000 tonnes for you, 10,000 tonnes is 15 per cent of the Australian market [of low-grade recycled plastic] ... so Australia has lost 15 per cent of its supply.
"I assume that opens up a whole lot of opportunities for our neighbours in Asia."
Den Tucker is the managing director of DM Plastics and Steel, which had been using Mr Scherer's plastics recycling services.
Mr Tucker said he had also been trying to cope with the pressure of soaring power bills.
"The price of our power has gone through similar numbers and we employ 45 people," he said.
"There is no solution being put forward at the present time.
"Our government is asleep at the wheel."
SA Environment Minister Ian Hunter said it was disappointing the facility was shutting down, but he said the pain of high electricity prices was being felt across the country.
Mr Hunter said help was available through the State Government's energy efficiency programs.

"Green Industries and Zero Waste have quite a bit of expertise in this area [and] they've worked with other companies and other industry sectors," he said.
"If that help is not required then that's up to him, but that's the offer I can make."
Mr Hunter said any recycled plastic due to be sent to the facility would be sent elsewhere, most likely to interstate processing plants.
"Having high power prices ... is a reality," he said.
"That's why the Government has introduced its state plan for energy in South Australia.
"But this is a company that employs South Australians, and it's incredibly disappointing that it's going through this problem."
Vitamin company Blackmores chief executive Christine Holgate will be the new chief executive at Australia Post.
Ms Holgate will take over from Ahmed Fahour, who is stepping down after seven-and-a-half years in the role.
Ms Holgate will officially start in the position in mid-to-late October.
Australia Post chairman John Stanhope said Ms Holgate was an outstanding candidate to lead the business through the next phase of its transformation program.
Mr Stanhope said the board was particularly impressed by her experience successfully growing a business in Asia and said she would be invaluable in pursuing Australia Post's Asian strategy.
"Her knowledge of global eCommerce will be invaluable as we pursue our Asian Strategy, which is all about offering logistics support to Australian businesses that are either selling in Asia, or sourcing their products there," he said.
Ms Holgate's remuneration has been set at $1.375 million fixed annual total remuneration and the potential to earn incentive payments of up to $1.375 million, in accordance with the parameters set by the Commonwealth Remuneration Tribunal.

The Federal Government ordered the tribunal to oversee the salaries of Australia Post executives after Mr Fahour's announced his resignation in February after seven years in the top job.
His announcement came after his $5.6 million salary was revealed by a Senate committee — an amount Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said was "too high".
Ms Holgate said she felt privileged to be appointed as CEO of such an iconic Australian corporation and, "one of the most resilient and successful postal businesses anywhere in the world".
"I'm a passionate advocate for Australian business seizing the opportunity that's on our doorstep in Asia and that creates opportunities for everyone — our workforce, our shareholders, the community, as well as businesses across Australia," Ms Holgate said.
"I'm really looking forward to joining the team.
"I'm especially looking forward to getting out and meeting the posties, the drivers, post office staff, licensees and other partners who deliver services in communities across Australia, every day.
The Australia Post board also announced its group chief customer officer, Christine Corbett, will lead the business through the CEO transition period — between Mr Fahour's departure on July 28 and Ms Holgate's arrival in October.
Home ownership rates in Australia have continued to decline as prices soar, with more people living in rentals and many owners and renters in housing stress.

Data from the 2016 census, released this morning by the Bureau of Statistics, shows home ownership rates have continued their quarter century long decline, with just 31 per cent of Australians owning their home outright, having paid off their mortgage.
That is down from 32.1 per cent in the 2011 census, and off more than 10 percentage points since 1991, when more than 40 per cent of Australians had paid off their home.
The proportion of Australians who own their home jointly with the bank has remained relatively steady over the past few census, between 34-35 per cent, although only 27.5 per cent of Australians were paying off a mortgage in 1991.
The big shift has been towards renting, with nearly 31 per cent of Australians now paying a landlord, up from 29.6 just five years ago and under 27 per cent in 1991.
Darwin is the rental capital of Australia, with more than 44 per cent of its residents living as tenants, while Sydney and Brisbane also have a relatively high proportion of renters.

Not only are an increasing number of households being driven away from ownership by the rising cost of purchasing - on average, capital city home prices jumped 35 per cent in the five years between the 2011 and 2016 census - but many are in housing stress, despite much lower interest rates.
A common yardstick of housing stress is whether households are spending more than 30 per cent of their monthly income on either rent or mortgage repayments.

The census reveals that 22 per cent of Sydney households are in such a situation and, given the proportion of households that have finished paying off their mortgage, it means that almost a third of Sydneysiders who do not already own their home outright are under housing stress.
This is not surprising, given that Sydney home prices jumped almost 60 per cent in the five years between the previous census and 2016, according to the ABS residential property price index.
Nationally, the data reveals that 7.2 per cent of households are paying more than 30 per cent of their income on mortgages, which would equate to around a fifth of households that have a mortgage.
However, this figure has declined markedly since the previous census, when official interest rates were 4.75 per cent, versus 1.5 per cent now.
The Bureau of Statistics said the typical monthly mortgage repayment was highest in Darwin, followed by Sydney and Canberra.
But the data shows Perth, Sydney and Melbourne had the highest proportion of households in mortgage stress, with about one-in-ten Perth households devoting more than a third of their income to repayments.
The census also offers clues as to the role immigration has played in surging capital city home prices, with 86 per cent of migrants arriving over the past 25 years settling in the capital cities, leading to a population growth rate (10.5 per cent over the past five years) twice as fast as the rest of the country.
Darwin and Perth had the steepest population growth (13.5 and 12.4 per cent), with Melbourne just behind at 12.1 per cent meaning that it remains on track to eventually overtake Sydney as the nation's most populous city.
However, the figures also suggest that housing construction was not too far behind keeping up with population growth over the five years to August 2016, despite this widely being considered as a period when a housing shortage had worsened.
The census data show there were an extra 631,162 homes, while there was an additional 1.9 million people.

That is one extra home per three extra people - given that the typical household contains 2.6 people, those figures suggest that there was a degree of under-building during this five-year period.
However, the census period covers only the very start of a record building boom that is likely to see at least 200,000 new homes completed this year alone.
Further evidence that the 2016 census captured little of the recent high rise building boom was offered by a slight fall in apartments as share of dwellings, although there was a notable rise in town houses and terraces.
LF Economics has used ABS data to maintain a running estimate of what it believes is Australia's housing oversupply.
Lindsay David said his firm's figures are designed to underestimate any oversupply, but still find a huge over-build in Melbourne, despite its relative strong population growth.

"Even when you make all the necessary adjustments to provide a clearer picture of Victoria's real supply/demand balance its pretty clear there is an incredibly large overhang of excess dwellings," he told the ABC via email.
"This is also supported by the fact that real rents have pretty much gone nowhere in the last 20 years in Melbourne.
"Victoria is definitely the Ireland of the south."
BIS Oxford Economics was also projecting an apartment glut in Melbourne.
However, its managing director Robert Mellor told the ABC that revisions to ABS population estimates, based on the census, mean that Melbourne may actually have a housing shortage.

"They've added about 109,000 people to the Victorian population," he said, noting that probably 80 to 90 per cent of them would be in Melbourne.
"Without doing the detailed analysis yet, it's every likelihood that not only does the Melbourne market in aggregate remain in significant undersupply, probably numbers that are not dissimilar to Sydney, which clearly at June '16 we would've said was severely undersupplied, but I'd suspect ... even the apartment market could be undersupplied."
The picture was starkly different for Perth, where the population estimates were dramatically lowered by 57,000.
"If you were worried about WA previously and the Perth market then you're only even more worried by the excess supply," Mr Mellor said.
"On our numbers, the market had moved into significant excess supply, I'd have to say that it would be now regarded as quite severe."
The population estimates for the other states remained more stable and, on those figures, LF Economics continues to defy most expert opinion in arguing Sydney has a modest housing oversupply.

Even if there is not currently a housing oversupply, Citi chief economist Paul Brennan warned that dwelling construction is likely to remain high for at least a couple more years, while population growth is still slowing.
"This would suggest the longer-term prospect for household formation and home building could be moderated by the slowdown in population growth and the demographic shift to an older population," he wrote in a note.
Mr Brennan also pointed out that tighter lending rules and rising mortgage interest rates are likely to dampen speculative property demand even if population growth remains strong.
Furthermore, despite the large rise in home prices in some of the nation's key population centres, an increasing number of homes are being left empty.
The data reveal that 11.2 per cent of dwellings - or about 1.04 million homes - were unoccupied on census night, up from 10.7 per cent in 2011.
While many of these vacant dwellings are holiday houses, under renovation or simply temporarily vacant while their occupants are travelling, the rise in the proportion of empty homes may hint at more investment properties being deliberately left unoccupied.
Mr Mellor said there seems to have been a trend for people to be away from home more often.
"As every census goes by, you're getting a higher proportion of Australians who are either travelling overseas or interstate on census night," he explained.
However, there was a significant variation between vacancy rates across the capital cities, which would appear to support Mr David's assertion that Melbourne is relatively oversupplied for housing, with 9.6 per cent of homes in the city sitting empty on census night versus just 7.7 per cent in Sydney and between 8-9 per cent in most other capitals.

The administrator of the Ten Network has declared he expects the ailing television station to be saved.

Ten was put into administration earlier this month after key shareholders, Lachlan Murdoch and WIN TV owner Bruce Gordon, refused to support an extended line of finance.
But after the company's first meeting of creditors in Sydney, Ten administrator Mark Korda, from restructuring firm Korda Mentha, said he was confident Ten could be recapitalised with the support of its big investors.
Creditors voted in Sydney on Monday for a 14-member creditors' committee, which includes the private companies of Mr Murdoch, Mr Gordon and billionaire James Packer, Cricket Australia, 21st Century Fox, CBS and three staff representatives, including senior journalist Hugh Riminton.
Mr Korda said he was confident the Ten Network could stay afloat.
"Ten is cash-flow positive at the present time," he told Business PM.
"Ratings are good, collected all our debts, so it's pretty much business as usual as far as advertisers, employees and programs are [concerned].
"What we have is a bit of a balance sheet problem that needs to be fixed via a recapitalisation process."
Mr Korda said he expected the company to be recapitalised over the next two months even without changes to media laws, which would allow Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon to buy the television station.
They have both expressed interest in buying the TV network.
Mr Murdoch owns nearly 8 per cent of Ten through his private company Illyria. Billionaire Bruce Gordon owns a private company called Birketu, which controls 15 per cent of Ten.
Mr Packer owns a nearly 8 per cent stake in Ten. He decided to join the creditors' committee despite not being part of previous refinancing discussions.
Mr Korda said expressions of interest in Ten had been made with the bid from Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon "one option".
"At the end of the day it will be the creditors' meeting that will decide who has the best recapitalisation plan," Mr Korda said.

KordaMentha is planning to get court approval to delay the next creditors' meeting in July to August or September, to allow a reboot plan for Ten to be developed.
Mr Korda said there were no planned redundancies.
He refused to comment on whether Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch had pulled the plug too early when they made the decision this month to put Ten into administration.
It is also possible Ten will be put into receivership by its secured creditor, the Commonwealth Bank.
Mr Korda said that would provide critical finance to keep the television station afloat while the sales process goes on.
Australian Shareholders Association director Stephen Mayne said he thought the Ten Network would be saved.
But he said he did not know whether mum and dad investors would get any of their money back.
"There will be new shareholders, controlling shareholders within the next couple of months," Mr Mayne said.
"It's just a question of who and at what price and, whether there is any value to be salvaged for the 17,000 retail shareholders."
Mr Mayne noted that Mr Korda said on Monday he did not think small investors would see any return.
However, Mr Mayne said the ASA was hoping Mr Korda was wrong.
"In most probability, Ten shares will never trade again and the shareholders will lose everything," he said.
"But unlike other administrations such as Arrium, ABC Learning, Allco, Babcock & Brown, where it was obvious from the start that shareholders had lost everything, this one we are more hopeful.
"Because at the end of the day the debt to the Commonwealth Bank is only $97 million. This is not a huge debt in the context of a free-to-air television station."
Residents in Perth and the South West could save about $75 a year on their power bills if they no longer had to pay a hidden charge that subsidises regional households, the WA Greens have said.
According to the Public Utilities Office, households in the two areas are charged with a Tariff Equalisation Contribution (TEC) subsidy each year of an average $75.83, or 4.4 per cent of their total bill.
It is a largely hidden charge that offsets the higher cost of supplying electricity to the rest of the regions around the state.
The WA Greens have been fighting for the subsidy to be axed, saying it could save the lowest income earners crucial dollars.
"It hits low income earners, it smashes them actually, disproportionately," Greens MP Tim Clifford said.
It is not a new idea. The McGowan Government took the plan to axe the charge to the 2013 election, but did not make the same pledge during the previous election.
While the WA Treasurer Ben Wyatt still wants it scrapped, he blamed the state's poor financial position as the reason for not making the cut now.
"It's not so much axing the TEC, it's how you fund it," Mr Wyatt said.
He said he would prefer to fund the subsidy through consolidated revenue but would cost the state about $600 million over the forward estimates.
He would not promise that would happen in this term of government.
"It's not cheap. You can only do that at a time when your finances can actually absorb that sort of cost which at the moment is perhaps a little way off."
The Greens believe consolidated revenue is one solution, but urged the Government to consider using Royalties for Regions funds instead.

"We've been looking at moving it possibly to Royalties for Regions or into consolidated revenue," Mr Clifford said.
"We believe that if we move it, it's going to drive down energy costs because the Government will have to look at renewable energy options and different ways of making sure we have a more efficient system."
West Australian Council of Social Services (WACOSS) chief executive officer Louise Giolitto agreed it meant the state's most vulnerable were not being supported.
"Our lowest income households are paying to supply electricity ... to regional WA which we understand they must be subsidised but it shouldn't be coming out of the pockets of lowest earners," Ms Giolitto said.
WACOSS too has long argued consolidated revenue was the solution.
Mr Wyatt agreed Royalties for Regions money was an option, but finding the money in the budget was still the issue.
"That is one option available of course but ultimately whether it's Royalties for Regions or consolidated account it's still in the budget," Mr Wyatt said.
Every WA electricity bill will increase by $169 per year from July 1 after the Government last week nearly doubled the daily fee to connect to the electricity grid from 48.6 cents to 94.9 cents a day.
An aviation expert is urging Australians to think twice before flying with budget airlines after an AirAsia X flight bound for Malaysia was forced to return to Perth due to an engine failure.

Passengers on the Sunday flight reported hearing a loud explosion before the Airbus A330 began to shudder, with some saying the pilot urged them to pray they would return safely.
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) confirmed it was investigating "an engine malfunction" which caused "moderate airframe vibration".
Strategic Aviation Solutions chairman and aviation expert Neil Hansford said people must take responsibility for their own safety when flying and visit airline ratings websites before booking.
"Australians regrettably think with their pocket and not their head," Mr Hansford said.
"Because if you go to the trouble of working out whether a carrier's got a record or not you would look at AirAsia and you would say 'well why would I fly with that carrier who can't get seven stars?'

"If the difference in the fare was $200, is my life worth $200?"
Despite landing the plane safely, Mr Hansford said the alleged behaviour of the pilot sounded anything but professional.
"The pilot's responsibility is to make all of the passengers feel comfortable and let them know that he's in command," he said.
"Now in asking people to pray, that's almost saying that he's passing the responsibility to some other person that's not on the plane."
Mr Hansford also said the pilot should have considered diverting to Western Australia's Learmonth airbase, rather than returning to Perth.
A replacement plane flew stranded passengers to Kuala Lumpur late on Sunday night.
On Monday morning, other AirAsia ticket holders at Perth airport were preparing to make similar journeys, seemingly undeterred by Sunday's drama.
"It won't happen two days in a row will it? I hope not, but I'm a Catholic and I can pray," joked AirAsia passenger Joe Kenney.
In 2014, an AirAsia plane crashed during a flight between Indonesia and Singapore.
All 162 passengers and crew died.
The plane made 78 trips between Perth and Bali with a mechanical fault that was not fixed in the 12 months leading up to the tragedy.
Meanwhile, AirAsia X has issued a fresh statement about Sunday's incident, saying it was investigating the cause "together with our engine manufacturer Rolls-Royce" and was cooperating with aviation authorities.

"We would like to stress that AirAsia Group has always strictly followed the maintenance programme prescribed by our manufacturers," the company said.
"We have also complied with all regulations and requirements as set forth by every country where the airline operates, including Australia.
"In Australia, AirAsia Group has regularly passed safety and security audits conducted by the local aviation authorities.
"AirAsia Group has also initiated the process of undergoing voluntary IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) auditing for all airlines within the group, including AirAsia X Malaysia, AirAsia X Indonesia and AirAsia Indonesia, with AirAsia X Malaysia receiving two IOSA audit certificates in 2015 and 2016.
"AirAsia remains committed to meeting all safety and security requirements in all the countries that we operate in."
The ATSB said a report on the incident would be released within several months.
The Commonwealth Bank will cut 150 staff from its Brisbane operations, shifting the work to employees in Sydney and Perth.
The Finance Services Union (FSU) has hit out at the changes, saying affected staff will have little to no chance of finding other jobs at the bank.
The back-end employees from the Brisbane team process home loan applications.
It is understood 66 staff will depart by September 3, and a further 84 phased out between February 2018 and June 2018.
Staff have been told the changes were a result of productivity initiatives and existing employees in Sydney and Perth would take on the Brisbane workload.
It is part of a "follow-the-sun" model, allowing the bank to utilise staff in different time zones.
In a statement, a bank spokeswoman said staff were notified of the changes on Monday.
"We understand this is a difficult time for affected people and this decision has not been taken lightly," she said.
"To ensure a smooth transition, we will provide impacted people with at least two months' notice and personalised support to help them identify other roles. This support includes developing a compelling resume, networking and interview coaching."
FSU executive secretary Wendy Streets said staff were shocked by the cuts.
"It's a difficult environment to get another job with these skills in Brisbane because unfortunately, with most of the major banks, these roles are done down south," she said.
Ms Streets said it was unclear how customers would be affected, but she said the decision to cut staff was not justified because there was plenty of work for them.
"We need good jobs in Queensland and if they were working overtime over the weekend, you can't tell me the work's not there," she said.
The union will meet with affected employees over the coming days and hold a meeting with the Commonwealth Bank on Friday.
In a slum on the Philippines island of Cebu, local police have come to rescue two girls.

They've been tipped off by the Australian Federal Police (AFP) that the girls' mother has sent 164 sexually explicit images of her daughters to an Australian man using the Viber messaging app.
The mother was allegedly paid about $800 in return.
When Philippines police arrive at the home, a 15-year-old girl is undressing in front of a webcam.
Three days later in the troubled Mindanao region in the south of the country, another raid begins.
This time explicit footage of four children aged between two and 13 is being streamed live over the internet.
The Philippines National Police is referred more than 6,000 cases of cyber sex abuse each month from around the world.


Pay-per-view child sex abuse is increasing, and it's believed thousands of Australians are paying to watch a range of sexualised footage in real time.
The AFP says it is grappling with a "tsunami" of reports of all kinds of sexual abuse and violence against children.
So far this year the AFP has received 4,937 reports of child exploitation.
Chief Judge of the Federal Circuit Court, John Pascoe, has argued for greater cooperation from telcos such as Telstra to help track down the perpetrators.

"We're talking about the most extreme forms of abuse, where there are some examples where people have been wanting to see, for example, the violent rape of children, five, six, seven years old," he told 7.30.
"It's difficult to get the evidence that someone has been watching this sort of material.
"It needs a lot of co-operation between law enforcement authorities, internet service providers and telcos."
The AFP said it has a good working relationship with the telecommunication companies, but there are worrying limitations.
7.30 can reveal that in 18 per cent of cases, Australian telcos are not providing the online information that police request.
According to AFP commander Lesa Gale, when a telco fails to provide sufficient information, the investigation "stops, it ceases, it means we can't do anything more".
Police often request subscriber records or mobile data from the telcos to track down offenders.
"The abuse is getting more and more violent, the children are getting younger and younger," Commander Gale told 7.30.
"The requests are becoming more and more extreme, as if it was almost a competition between offenders and producers to try and make more and more extreme material depicting horrendous acts occurring on babies and young children."

Chief Judge Pascoe is worried the law is not keeping up with the pace of technological change.
"I think if you look at large corporations, they're made up of many people, employees, shareholders and I think the public does have a right to expect that they will be part of the social contract," he said.
"They will be aware of Australia's obligations and they will do their part to protect children."
He argues that companies have an obligation to protect children at home and abroad under the United Nations convention on the Rights of the Child.
"The law actually needs to recognise the true nature of the crime and give the police the powers they need to appropriately prosecute offenders," he said.
"And I think one of the problems in this area, there somehow seems to be a disconnect between sitting at the computer typing what you want to happen next to the child and actually doing it.
"To me there is no distinction."
Mark Leach, a board member with International Justice Mission Australia, said telecommunications companies have a moral obligation to assist.
"It's our view that the directors and management of any telco in the country would be appalled that their company assets and their business were being used to commission and perpetrate the rape of children in the developing world," he told 7.30.
The AFP said requests might not be fulfilled for a number of reasons, including "the fact that investigators, at times, need to put requests to all major telecommunication companies, knowing that only one of the telecommunication companies would be able to complete the request".
Both Optus and Vodafone told 7.30 they comply with their legal obligations to assist police.
An Optus spokeswoman said: "We have responded to every request we've received from law enforcement agencies this year. There are no requests where we haven't provided some form of response.
"There are circumstances where we have advised law enforcement agencies that we are unable to provide information because we don't capture the specific piece of information requested. There are also some instances where we've asked the AFP to resend a request under the correct part of the legislation."
Telstra said it responds to tens of thousands of requests for customer information. It said it supports law enforcement while protecting the privacy of its customers.
"We take very seriously our legal and regulatory obligations to assist law enforcement agencies who are seeking information," a Telstra spokesman said.
Clover Moore, the longest serving Lord Mayor of Sydney, persists in battling the largest infrastructure project in Australia with ratepayer's funds, even though construction is well underway.
The council funded a proposal for an alternative plan, which was made public in May.
The new plan proposes to cut out plans for a 9-kilometre underground tunnel from St Peters to Haberfield, and connect the new M4 and M5 between Homebush and Cantebury, thereby removing the St Peters interchange from the equation.
The Premier has rejected the plan.
"We have considered it but we are not going down the path of what they are advocating because it is a very centric-CBD view of the world," Premier Gladys Berejiklian said.
Tonight the Mayor will put forward a $360,000 proposal to the city's council, to fund an advertising campaign supporting an alternative WestConnex plan her council also funded.
That's right, to fund a campaign to stop construction on a motorway that has already started being built, that the State Government has already rejected.
Ms Moore argued there was still an opportunity to stop, or just delay, building part of stage 2 and all of stage 3, and the opportunity to save "billions of dollars".
"It's been rushed, and so we're saying to the Government pause this project, get it right, don't threaten the viability of the global city of Australia, don't threaten the lifestyle of the people living in those high densities of the city."
Ms Moore said the strategic funding of opposition to the project through protest coordination, advertising and an alternative plan was important to "empower" residents to take action if they want to.
"I think this is the most responsible use of ratepayers money informing people about a project that could be really, really harmful to them in the future and trying to get a better outcome," the Mayor said.
"We could have just campaigned against it, instead we've put a lot of time and effort getting an alternative proposal up that we think is much much more responsible and gives a much better outcome, not just to the people of the west and the southwest, but to City of Sydney."
The councillors will vote on the plan tonight.
Unpaid internships are increasingly becoming the default way of beginning a professional career in Australia.
According to the largest survey so far, 60 per cent of people aged under 30 have done at least one, but when it comes to the status of interns, the law is unclear.

One of the distinctions between an employee and an intern, according to the Fair Work Ombudsman, is that if the work "would otherwise be done by an employee, or it's work that the business or organisation has to do, it's more likely the person is an employee".
Up to half a million interns may have been in unlawful arrangements over the past five years, says Andrew Stewart, a professor of labour law at the University of Adelaide and co-author of the 2016 survey.
"We seem to be getting away from that idea about organisations investing in their workers and being prepared to put the time into paying them while they're on the job," he says.
"They say, 'Well, if they're not ready immediately to work for us then we'll just make them an unpaid intern.'"
"I think that's where organisations are taking a significant legal risk."
Most interns reported high satisfaction with their experiences, but there's no conclusive evidence that internships lead to employment outcomes. Many interns end up with jobs related to their placing, but they might have done so anyway.
We asked four interns and former interns about their experiences.

"They said there was a chance to work permanently with them, but this is what most employers say!"
Late last year Carolina Flora Diaz worked for two months for a small graphic design company, creating business cards, flyers, website design and other material. Carolina is from Argentina, and wanted Australian work experience.
The office was the company owner's apartment. She and three paid colleagues worked in the lounge room.
"When I went to the job interview I showed them my portfolio," she said.
They told me 'we can give you some work to do' but they didn't specify that the work would be for clients — I imagined it would be exercises or training."
After two months, she asked for pay if she was to continue, and the company owner refused — saying she was too slow and lacking in a key software skill.
Carolina left the internship and made a complaint to the Fair Work Ombudsman, which is still investigating.
Her advice for prospective interns: study the Fair Work Ombudsman guidelines, and "clarify the terms of the internship before starting it".
The University of Adelaide's Professor Stewart says internships are much safer, legally speaking, when they're an accredited part of a university or training course.

"This internship has shown me a lot about engineering and a lot of what happens in the back scenes: communication with clients, dealing with fee proposals, a lot of documentation and tendering."
Cedric is a third-year student at the University of Technology Sydney, and as part of his course he is required to do a six-month internship. The first three months were unpaid, the second three paid.
It literally changed his life — the work convinced him to change his course.
"In my internship I'm involved with structural, hydraulic and civil engineers. I was doing civil engineering at university but because of my internship I've found a passion more in structural engineering."
There is currently an oversupply of engineering students, which means there's fierce competition for internships. Cedric says he had no contacts when he began the hunt for engineering companies via Google.
"I would have phoned probably between five and 15 companies a week. Then I took it up to myself to go around the city and physically go to these workplaces and ask around so I could see some faces and they could see me and see how I am."
Eventually, he found success — a firm in North Sydney took him on.
On the paid versus unpaid question, Cedric sees merit in both.
"I think it should be unpaid at the start, because you're there for the experience and you're there to learn and you're taking up a lot of time of the other engineers."
"When you get to a certain stage like I am, after three months, you know a lot."
Now Cedric is working a 45-hour week, and says he's glad to be getting paid, albeit at a relatively low rate.
"It means I don't have to dip into my savings to get lunch."

"Unpaid internships lock out certain people. If you can't afford to work for free, then unfortunately you just can't access that opportunity."
Sarah Ashman-Baird has a full-time job in marketing, but gives her time to Interns Australia, a voluntary advocacy and advice group.
She did two internships while at university — both arranged as part of her marketing course.
"I did one at a car manufacturing company in Melbourne, and that was over 12 months, a full-time internship, and it was paid," she says.
"It was really well structured, there were lots of learning and I felt that that contributed to the rest of my career."
Sarah's second internship, also in the manufacturing industry, was paid as well and she found it beneficial.
Interns Australia has a clear position on internships: they should be paid, well-structured, and interns should have similar opportunities to employees.
"Unpaid only works for those who can afford to work for free or who have their parents supporting them. And that creates more a homogeneous landscape of interns," Sarah says.
But doesn't lobbying for paid-only internships risk losing potential employers and opportunities?
Perhaps, Sarah says, but it's a risk worth taking for the greater good.
"We stand quite firmly on that, just because of the implications that it has longer-term. We don't want to create a systemic culture of unpaid internships in Australia.
"As more people are willing to do unpaid internships, then that unfortunately creates a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy."

"It's really, really ludicrous to have someone work nine-to-five, five days a week, and not get paid."
After growing up in war-torn Bosnia and migrating to Australia at the age of 18, Tanja wanted to work in international development.
But she found that in this popular field of study, unpaid internships are expected.
After her first degree Tanja spent a year in Egypt working on refugee issues — unpaid. She sold all her possessions to do it.
Then she undertook an executive master's degree, studying international relations and business.

"The way the program is structured you have to choose between doing an internship or project-based work. And I chose an internship," she says.
"I knew I wanted to do an internship overseas, and preferably in my home country, and for an international non-governmental organisation.
"It took me about three or four months of just cold emailing and seeing what's available."
Tanja ended up working on a guidebook for diaspora refugees returning to Bosnia. There was a team of people, all doing the same work, Tanja says, and with similar qualifications. But she and a local man were not paid.
While not specifically referring to that experience, Tanja believes not paying interns is having a detrimental effect.
"People who are excluded from gaining entrance are all those people who can't actually afford to be unpaid. So are people from developing countries. Or people from lower socio-economic backgrounds."
That, she says, is a loss to the field of international development. Tanja now works in the corporate sector.
Disclaimer: ABC RN takes unpaid interns as part of a diversity-targeted program that contributes to interns' university course accreditation.
The corporate watchdog is investigating failed Australian start-up Guvera after it left 3,000 investors wondering what happened to more than $180 million they ploughed into the company.

7.30 can reveal the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has begun questioning investors in the Gold Coast-based tech company, which used a network of accountants to convince mum-and-dad investors around the country to buy up millions of dollars' worth of shares.
The music streaming app stopped operating last month, less than a year after its long-awaited listing on the share market was blocked by the Australian Securities Exchange.
The failed float provoked an outcry from shareholders, who say they were promised massive returns on their investments.
"We're asking the question: where did all the money go?" said Queensland-based investor Ben Morris, who bought $90,000 worth of Guvera shares in 2014.
"They should be held accountable. We should have answers."


It is understood ASIC's investigation is focussing on alleged commissions and other fees paid to accountants for referring their clients to a Guvera-linked investment company, AMMA Private Equity.
ASIC is also investigating whether the marketing of Guvera shares breached sections of the Corporations Act designed to protect inexperienced investors.
Several accountants who spoke to 7.30 denied ever receiving commissions for referring clients to AMMA Private Equity, but acknowledged they received accommodation on overseas holidays in locations including Hawaii and Dubai.
Guvera co-founder and chief executive officer Darren Herft declined 7.30's request for an interview, but said in an email the company had not "abandoned" its shareholders.
"We have a platform and access to music rights and a company to fix for 3,000 people," he said.
Mr Herft declined to say whether he had been interviewed by ASIC.
Two Guvera subsidiaries were placed into voluntary administration last year, and receivers have been appointed to the assets of the parent company Guvera Limited.
Its co-founder Claes Loberg left the company last month, after a string of departures by directors, including former Warner Brothers music chief executive Phil Quartararo.
Last week, Mr Herft wrote to investors to announce that Sydney lawyer Peter Ristevski, a former Liberal councillor for Liverpool City Council, had joined Guvera's board.
But when contacted on Monday, Mr Ristevski said he had resigned on Friday because Guvera was now seeking to list on the Macedonian Stock Exchange.
He said he decided to resign because of perceived conflict, as he has business connections in Macedonia.
"It didn't work out in Australia," Mr Ristevski said.
"Australia is just one stock exchange. If one door shuts another one can open."
Young people get a huge amount of their news from social media feeds, where false, exaggerated or sponsored content is often prevalent. With the right tools, caregivers can give kids the knowledge they need to assess credible information for themselves.
Being able to identify the trustworthiness of information is an important concern for everyone. Yet the sheer volume of material online and the speed at which it travels has made this an increasingly challenging task. Platforms like Twitter and Facebook provide a loudspeaker to anyone who can attract followers, no matter what their message or content.
Fake news has the power to normalise prejudices, to dictate us-versus-them mentalities and even, in extreme cases, to justify and encourage violence.
We have become obsessed with getting kids off their devices at the expense of developing their understanding of the online world. This is not about surveillance, but rather about having open conversations that empower children to understand and assess the usefulness of information for themselves.
Young people are growing up in a world where distributing large volumes of misinformation online has become a subtle yet powerful art.

It's no surprise then that research published in 2016 by Stanford University suggests kids "may focus more on the content of social media posts than on their sources".
For example, of 203 middle school students surveyed as part of the report, more than 80 per cent thought a native ad on the news website Slate labelled "sponsored content" was a real news story. A majority of high school students questioned by the researchers didn't recognise and explain the significance of the blue checkmark on a verified Fox News Facebook account.
With the amount of content we see in a busy day, it's possible that these subtleties are being lost on many adults as well.
Helping young people navigate online spaces requires better skills in verifying what is true and what isn't.
Here are five questions to start the conversation with children.
Find an online post that you consider to be fake news and talk with the child about it. Shape your conversation around these questions:

Detecting fake news can be like a "spot the difference" game.
These questions are clues for kids that a source may be dodgy:

Many social media sites are now also cracking down on the spread of fake news. Showing kids the restrictions these sites are imposing on their users will help them get a rounded understanding of the problem.
For example, asking kids to read the rules by which Reddit will remove content from r/news is a good starting point. Facebook also offers "Tips to Spot False News", suggesting readers check that other sources are reporting similar facts and that they look out for weird formatting, among other hints.
Growing up in a world of fake news doesn't have to be a heavy burden for kids. Rather, it requires extra support from adults to help them understand and navigate the digital world.
Our goal should be not only to help children survive this complicated online world, but to equip them with the knowledge they need to flourish in it.
Joanne Orlando is a researcher in technology and learning at Western Sydney University.
This piece originally appeared in The Conversation.
Young people get a huge amount of their news from social media feeds, where false, exaggerated or sponsored content is often prevalent. With the right tools, caregivers can give kids the knowledge they need to assess credible information for themselves.
Being able to identify the trustworthiness of information is an important concern for everyone. Yet the sheer volume of material online and the speed at which it travels has made this an increasingly challenging task. Platforms like Twitter and Facebook provide a loudspeaker to anyone who can attract followers, no matter what their message or content.
Fake news has the power to normalise prejudices, to dictate us-versus-them mentalities and even, in extreme cases, to justify and encourage violence.
We have become obsessed with getting kids off their devices at the expense of developing their understanding of the online world. This is not about surveillance, but rather about having open conversations that empower children to understand and assess the usefulness of information for themselves.
Young people are growing up in a world where distributing large volumes of misinformation online has become a subtle yet powerful art.

It's no surprise then that research published in 2016 by Stanford University suggests kids "may focus more on the content of social media posts than on their sources".
For example, of 203 middle school students surveyed as part of the report, more than 80 per cent thought a native ad on the news website Slate labelled "sponsored content" was a real news story. A majority of high school students questioned by the researchers didn't recognise and explain the significance of the blue checkmark on a verified Fox News Facebook account.
With the amount of content we see in a busy day, it's possible that these subtleties are being lost on many adults as well.
Helping young people navigate online spaces requires better skills in verifying what is true and what isn't.
Here are five questions to start the conversation with children.
Find an online post that you consider to be fake news and talk with the child about it. Shape your conversation around these questions:

Detecting fake news can be like a "spot the difference" game.
These questions are clues for kids that a source may be dodgy:

Many social media sites are now also cracking down on the spread of fake news. Showing kids the restrictions these sites are imposing on their users will help them get a rounded understanding of the problem.
For example, asking kids to read the rules by which Reddit will remove content from r/news is a good starting point. Facebook also offers "Tips to Spot False News", suggesting readers check that other sources are reporting similar facts and that they look out for weird formatting, among other hints.
Growing up in a world of fake news doesn't have to be a heavy burden for kids. Rather, it requires extra support from adults to help them understand and navigate the digital world.
Our goal should be not only to help children survive this complicated online world, but to equip them with the knowledge they need to flourish in it.
Joanne Orlando is a researcher in technology and learning at Western Sydney University.
This piece originally appeared in The Conversation.
The "technical issue" responsible for causing a mid-air drama on an AirAsia X flight from Perth to Kuala Lumpur was just the latest safety incident involving the low-cost airline.
Some aviation experts have urged caution as the Australian Transport Safety Bureau investigates the engine failure on the flight, described by one passenger as like "sitting on top of a washing machine".
"When you look at the number of aircraft movements every day, these [events] aren't one particular airline," aviation consultant Trevor Jenson said.
"It is not unreasonable to [expect that], in the amount of hours that are flown, you do get these events. They are well and truly within the probabilities of millions of millions.
"They are unusual events, they all have to be carefully investigated, [but] the great thing about aviation is we learn the lessons, that is why it is the safest means of transport."
Yesterday's engine malfunction does, however, add another chapter to AirAsia's history, following at least four other incidents or accidents involving the Malaysian carrier in the past three years.

All 162 passengers and crew died when an AirAsia Airbus A320 stalled at high altitude during a flight from Indonesia's second largest city Surabaya to Singapore on December 28, 2014.
The final report into the crash, released a year later, found the aircraft had a fault with its rudder limiter which went unfixed for 12 months before the crash.
It also found pilot error was partly to blame for the accident.

Foreign Correspondent later revealed thousands of Australians had flown 78 times between Bali and Perth on the same aircraft while it had the mechanical fault in the year leading up to the tragedy.
Experts said airlines like Qantas would have never flown a plane with that sort of defect, while AirAsia said it had improved pilot training and maintenance standards since the crash
An AirAsia X flight from Sydney to Malaysia was forced to make an emergency landing in Melbourne on March 10, 2015, after experiencing onboard navigation issues.
A safety investigation later found the captain had entered the wrong departure flight path into the A300's navigation system just before take-off.

The error put the plane off the coast of Cape Town, South Africa.
The flight was cancelled but deteriorating weather in Sydney meant the aircraft, which was now limited to visual conditions, had to be sent to Melbourne — more than 6,000 kilometres from its intended destination.
An AirAsia A320 aircraft was on approach to Perth Airport on February 19, 2016 when it reportedly flew 300 metres too low in severe turbulence.
The West Australian newspaper reported the plane, which was arriving from Bali, dropped as low as 457m near Royal Perth Yacht Club.
The ATSB said air traffic controllers issued a "low altitude alert" and told the crew to abort their landing. The aircraft later landed safely.
An AirAsia X plane departing Gold Coast Airport for Auckland, New Zealand suffered what the ATSB described as a "loss of separation" with an incoming Jetstar plane on July 21, 2016.
The aircraft came within about 180m of one another after the AirAsia A330 climbed too quickly — well below the 305m minimum required vertical separation for passenger planes in Australia.
The ATSB said both planes received a "traffic collision avoidance system" alert, with the crew of the Jetstar A320 "conducting a climb to increase separation".
The origin story is well-known. JK Rowling penned the famous tale of a boy wizard named Harry Potter while waiting in an Edinburgh cafe for a delayed train.
She sent the first three chapters to a number of publishers, and was knocked back again and again, until one finally said yes.
But how did a seemingly simple story of a young boy struggling to conquer a powerful magical foe become a multi-billion-dollar global franchise?
The chief executive officer of Australia's largest precinct for start-ups, Lighthouse Sydney, says there are a number of things which have driven its success.
"First is the timing of when these books were written and when the films came out," Annie Parker said.
"It came out at that age where technology had started to become much more ubiquitous in the sense that there was [more] ways for people to engage with the story — whether that be some of the toys that were really creative, whether that be on Pottermore or other fan sites like the Leaky Cauldron, loads of different ways for you, as a fan, to engage.
"And I think what JK Rowling and the whole franchise were really smart about was, instead of trying to tell everybody that they couldn't use the branding or couldn't get involved, she embraced it all."
Although that's not to say that everyone was free to use the story.
In its early years of producing the films, Warner Bros reportedly chased a number of individuals for rights infringements.
But as fan fiction websites and other spin offs emerged, JK Rowling and other players in the franchise were able to use it to their advantage — and secure various revenue streams.
As Ms Parker points out, Rowling has found success with various spin-off projects, such as Pottermore, suggesting that the author's willingness to engage with fans and the story in new and creative ways was a master stroke.

Since its first publication, Harry Potter has spawned seven books (excluding various spin-offs), eight movies (excluding Magical Beasts and Where to Find Them), video games, toys, clothes, websites and theme parks.
And each of these areas form part of the franchise, or conditional grant, which involves the owner granting a licence to use a particular product, according to Jason Gehrke, the director of Australia's Franchise Advisory Centre.

He says the term can be applied in slightly different contexts to a formula for producing a product, service or a form of entertainment.

"So part of the conditions attached to the deal … will be paying money to the owner of those rights and the owner of those rights will stipulate that the products [such as dolls or movies] have to represent Harry Potter as he was portrayed," Mr Gehrke said.
JK Rowling does not exclusively own all Potter-related merchandise but, according to The New York Times, still collects licensing fees from them.
Warner Bros, the studio behind the seven Potter films and Fantastic Beasts, also has a fair cut — including from television and merchandise licensing deals.
Ms Parker says it was probably the "smartest thing" out of everything JK Rowling did to retain the rights over Harry Potter and the world she created.
"And look this has been a real gamble because let's face it when she did those film rights it could have all gone on the cutting room floor," she said.
According to market research and statistics group Statistic Brain, which ran the numbers on the Harry Potter movie sales, book sales, DVD/digital sales, rentals and toy sales last year, estimated sales for the franchise are worth upwards of $US24 billion (in muggle money).
That has been backed up by Time Inc's Coinage, a video brand which covers personal finance, which reported it was worth roughly $US25 billion in March.
(Or for those of you deeply immersed in the wizarding world, approximately 51,877,678.62 Galleons, 11 sickles and 15 knuts, Coinage reports.)
Time's also included figures from the most recent Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them film, with the series expected to bring in more revenue as more movies are released in the future.
Not bad for a story which, as the legend goes, was knocked back a number of times before it was taken up by Bloomsbury.
Mr Gehrke said the franchise is in "a league of its own" when it comes to the kind of success it has had.

"I think if you look at it in sheer dollar terms and the amount of money that has been invested in the brand and spent on it and the level of awareness of the brand, then you would have to say it is in a league of its own," he said.
"Then probably the next thing that comes in line after that, which is considerably more adult and less child friendly, is perhaps the Game of Thrones franchise.
"But that to date has been limited to the small screen and hasn't been commercialised through toy deals and other stuff that Harry Potter has been."
While it may be unique, it is certainly not the most successful entertainment franchise, with estimates of George Lucas' Star Wars valuing it at $30 billion and higher.
Lucas sold Lucasfilm, which owned Star Wars, for $4 billion in 2012.
But Ms Parker says what makes it different from other franchises is the backstory, adding that "the books started from such a basic existence".
"JK Rowling was a single mother, she was in quite poor conditions on the bread line so for her to have had the foresight to know that little book was going to turn into a worldwide phenomenon — there's no way she could have known that," she said.
"And I think because it's come from the purity of that story place, it doesn't come across as a horrid corporate franchise, even though it does make an awful lot of money."
Ms Parker says the origin story and Rowling, who is reported to have given quite a lot back to charity, make it look less like a franchise but a world that people can be a part of.
Rio Tinto is currently in a dilemma on who it should sell its Hunter Valley mines to - the Swiss or the Chinese.
Late on Friday, Swiss-based company Glencore upped its bid to more than $3.5 billion (US$2.685 billion) for the purchase of Rio's subsidiary, Coal & Allied Industries Limited.
The assets on the block are Rio's Hunter Valley operations - the Warkworth/Mount Thorley thermal and semi-soft coking coal mines and a major stake in the Port Waratah coal loading facility in Newcastle.
Glencore said its latest offer is around $297 million ($US225 million) greater than Yancoal's proposal.
"We believe the Glencore offer satisfies the criteria for a 'superior proposal': it delivers substantially greater value to Rio Tinto shareholders and low deal completion risk," Glencore said in a statement.
The deal is subject to regulatory approvals, and Glencore has demonstrated its confidence in clearing them by putting down a $225 million deposit, which it will forfeit if the transaction does not go ahead.
However, the complication is that if Rio accepts Glencore's higher offer it runs the risk of upsetting the world's second largest economy and its biggest customer.
Relations with China have been somewhat uncomfortable since Rio pulled out of a $24.3 billion deal with Chinese state-owned miner Chinalco in 2009.
Within one year, Rio's former head of iron ore in China, Stern Hu, was jailed for ten years for corruption and industrial espionage.
Rio's board is currently considering its next steps, and plans to provide an update before its general meeting in London on Tuesday.
If Rio's board decides that Glencore's latest offer is the best deal and in the best interests of shareholders, then the general meeting will be adjourned.
This will then trigger a matching rights process, in which Yancoal will  have two business days to present a better counter-offer.
The shareholder meeting could also be adjourned if Rio's board needs further time to consider Glencore's proposal.
Alternatively, if Rio rejects Glencore's latest offer, then the meeting will proceed as planned on Tuesday and shareholders will vote on the Yancoal deal.
"It's a good outcome for Rio Tinto to have other companies fighting for their assets," said UBS Australia managing director Glyn Lawcock.
"There is certainty of closure with Yancoal's offer, and a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
"Rio will have a harder job knocking back Glencore's improved offer and it now needs to give this more scrutiny."
China may, however, take this as "a hit on the nose" if Yancoal is not the successful bidder, according to David Lennox, a commodities analyst from Fat Prophets.
"Rio needs to be cognisant that it sells a lot of iron ore to China.
"But if Rio chooses to sell to Glencore instead, this path won't be fraught with extreme danger.
"As long as it's made clear that the decision was made purely on an economic and commercial basis."
Rio Tinto's Australian shares were trading 0.55 per cent higher at $59.38 at 2:04pm (AEST).
BankSA's chief executive has not ruled out increasing variable mortgage rates based on customers' postcodes, in response to the South Australian Government's new bank levy.
Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis revealed plans to impose a levy on the big banks in last week's state budget, with the measure set to raise about $370 million over four years.
BankSA put plans to create 150 new jobs in South Australia on hold following the announcement.
When questioned on ABC Radio Adelaide, BankSA chief executive Nick Reade would not rule out increasing variable rates for customers with postcodes beginning with the number five — a move which would capture its South Australian residential and business customers.
"I can't comment at this stage because it's too early," he said.
"I haven't had a chance to understand the implications [of the levy] and we haven't seen the legislation.
"I don't understand how it all works to be honest, we're trying to get more information on it, but on the surface we're going to have to look at our operations.
"What this does is it affects the future around investment and jobs."
Mr Reade did say BankSA did not have any plans to pull sponsorship from major events like the Adelaide Fringe and the Royal Adelaide Show.
"We are dedicated to South Australia ... and we're looking at new sponsorships," he said.
State Opposition Leader Steven Marshall said the Liberal Party would not block the budget, but would look at whether supporting the bank levy was in the best interests of South Australians.
"We will be looking at this budget measure [because] we're not convinced that it's good for South Australia," he said.
"I think Nick Reade is right — interstate, people think South Australia is becoming a laughing stock.
"But we won't be making a kneejerk reaction.
"We'll be looking at the detail of this.
"Our reply in the Parliament is next Tuesday."
Australia and several other economies that escaped the worst of the global financial crisis are now threatened by their massive run-up in household debt, the Bank for International Settlements has warned.
The BIS is the Swiss-based central bank of central bankers and one of the few institutions that warned of the risk of a global financial crisis a couple of years before it happened.
In an uncharacteristically optimistic annual report, the BIS was generally upbeat about prospects for the global economy in the short term.
"The near-term outlook appears the best in a long while," BIS general manager Jaime Caruana noted in his speech to the bank's annual general meeting.
"Consensus and international organisation forecasts point to further gradual improvement this year. Global growth is projected to reach 3.5 per cent - in line with the long-term historical average, and less than half a percentage point below the level observed in the decade before the global financial crisis."
Consistent with this growth, the BIS noted that virtually all major economies were now expanding, with many now reporting job markets close to estimates of full employment (generally considered to be an unemployment rate under 5 per cent, depending on the individual economy).
It also observed with approval the emerging trend towards "normalising" monetary policy, notably the US Federal Reserve's two interest rate rises thus far this year.
However, in keeping with its tradition of alerting policymakers to threats, the BIS noted four key risks to the continuation of this growth.
The risk of an inflation breakout, continued weakness in corporate investment and the danger of increased protectionism and a shift away from free trade were three of those dangers.
The fourth is most relevant to Australia - a warning about high debt levels in "a number of smaller advanced economies and emerging market economies".
While there were few specific mentions of Australia, the nation is in a group of developed economies including Canada and several Nordic nations that escaped the GFC relatively unscathed, but have since taken on a lot more household debt.
There is the obvious risk that this high household debt proves unsustainable and will lead to a US-style mortgage default crisis.

The BIS singled out Canada, Hong Kong and mainland China as being most immediately at risk of such an outcome, with Australia considered vulnerable, especially if interest rates rise more rapidly than currently anticipated.
However, even if there is no GFC-style debt meltdown, new BIS research has highlighted the negative effect that high and rising household debt has on future economic growth.
The concept is not rocket science - basically, if you borrow more money to fund consumption now (including buying or building homes) then you will have less money for consumption in the future as your debt repayment burden rises.
The BIS found that a 1 percentage point rise in a nation's household debt-to-GDP ratio would wipe about 0.1 percentage point off economic growth around six years later.
Given that Australia's household debt to GDP ratio has jumped about 20 percentage points since the financial crisis, this research goes a long way to explaining why annual economic growth is a lacklustre 1.7 per cent and probably will be in the doldrums for several more years to come.
The BIS observed that Australia's household debt servicing burden is already more than 2 percentage points higher than the nation's long-run average, which will rise to 4 percentage points, even if interest rates do not increase, or rise only a little.
It could increase to well over 6 percentage points above average, and be amongst the highest in the world, if rates rise more quickly, as they have in the past.
This compares with the US, where the repayment burden has been below average levels since the financial crisis as households paid down their loans.
The other risk to Australia is China, the country's largest trading partner, singled out by the BIS as probably the major economy most at risk of a credit meltdown and financial crisis.
China and Hong Kong's debt figures are already in the red zone that has triggered financial crises in more than two-thirds of occasions historically.
If such a crisis did occur, the hit to Australia's national income would likely drag it into recession, even if the domestic economy was quite strong at the time, which it currently is not.

Such debt worries are a key reason the BIS has been very keen to see emergency level interest rates unwound and normalised.
The bank was hoping for this to start happening several years ago, but the US Fed has only recently begun seriously unwinding its ultra-low rate policy.
The delay in raising interest rates has caused outsized asset prices, leading to what the BIS believes are dangerous overvaluations in some areas, combined with risky debt burdens.
"Globally, debt is at record levels: in 2016, the stock of non-financial sector debt in the G20 economies stood at around 220 per cent of GDP, almost 40 percentage points higher than in 2007," Mr Caruana warned.
"High debt might become a significant drag on demand as interest rates normalise."
Whether such debt leads to another financial crisis or simply results in lost years, or even decades, of growth as occurred in Japan after its 1980s credit-fuelled asset boom, it appears the heyday of world economic growth has well and truly passed.
Seventeen staff members and two former employees of Crown Resorts will face trial in a Shanghai district court today, eight months after being detained for alleged gambling crimes.
Among them are three Australians, including Melbourne-based executive Jason O'Connor, Beijing-based international marketing director Jerry Xuan, and colleague Pan Dan.
Another senior executive, Malaysian national Alfread Gomez, is among the defendants who are expected to be tried as a group for vaguely-defined "gambling crimes".
Lawyers acting on behalf of the some of the clients have declined to detail the allegations, citing instructions from Crown not to speak to the media.
But in a statement, Crown says the group are charged with offences related to the promotion of gambling, which is illegal in mainland China.

The defendants are facing a maximum sentence of three years in jail.

Some family members and Australian consular officials will attend the trial at the low-level Baoshan District Court, but officials say the courtroom is too small to allow Australian media in.
Today's hearing will not involve a verdict or a sentence, and relatives of the defendants have been told to expect a wait of several weeks.
China's criminal courts have a notoriously high conviction rate of 99 per cent.
Experts say prosecutors routinely drop cases before they get to trial if they are not confident of securing a conviction.
In a similar case two years ago, a group of South Korean casino staff spent between 14 and 16 months behind bars while under investigation for illegally promoting gambling in China.
They were eventually deported with little fanfare.
The Great Barrier Reef has a total asset value of $56 billion and is "too big to fail", according to a new report.

Deloitte Access Economics has calculated the economic, social and iconic value of the world heritage site in a report commissioned by the Great Barrier Reef Foundation.
Tourism is the biggest contributor to the total asset value making up $29 billion.
The Great Barrier Reef generates 64,000 jobs in Australia and contributes $6.4 billion dollars to the national economy, the report said.
It states the brand value, or Australians that have not yet visited the Reef but value knowing it exists, as $24 billion.
Recreational users including divers and boaters make up $3 billion.
"That's more than 12 Sydney Opera Houses, or the cost of building Australia's new submarines. It's even more than four times the length of the Great Wall of China in $100 notes," the report states.
The report does not include quantified estimates of the value traditional owners place on the Great Barrier Reef and it said governments should consider doing more to protect it.
It also references the back to back coral bleaching events which have devastated the reef and says climate change remains the most serious threat to the entire structure.
"We have already lost around 50 per cent of the corals on the GBR in the last 30 years. Severe changes in the ocean will see a continued decline ahead of us," the report states.
"Today, our Reef is under threat like never before. Two consecutive years of global coral bleaching are unprecedented, while increasingly frequent extreme weather events and water quality issues continue to affect reef health," said Dr John Schubert AO, Chair of the Great Barrier Reef Foundation.

Association of Marine Park Tourism Operators executive director Col McKenzie said the reef is crucial to the industry.
"We don't have an industry without the Barrier Reef being in good condition."
He said the negative coverage of the reef relating to the destruction caused by Cyclone Debbie earlier this year and the bleaching event is having an impact on visitor numbers.
Mr McKenzie said tourist figures are down 50 per cent in the Whitsundays and it is being felt along the Queensland coast.
"The majority of the operators in Cairns say this is as bad as it was during the global financial crisis," Mr McKenzie said.
The Deloitte Access Economics report will be released on Hamilton Island today.

The State Opposition has called for the Government to provide evidence of contractual disputes that have forced the new Perth Stadium footbridge to be constructed locally.
The problem-plagued pedestrian bridge was due to be completed late last year but was delayed when its Malaysian manufacturer failed to meet delivery timelines.
That sub-contract has now been terminated and today Premier Mark McGowan announced the bridge's steel deck and arch components would be built in WA, blowing out the cost of the project by another $13 million.
"We have the capacity, we have the workforce, we have the fabricators, we have the ability," Mr McGowan said.
"Obviously it's going to cost more to do it this way, but that's unavoidable."
But Deputy Opposition Leader Liza Harvey called for a better explanation, saying when the Liberal National Party was in government, things were progressing well.
"At the time of the election the bridge was 75 per cent complete," Ms Harvey said.
"The State Government, in taking the reins, has been interfering in the process and now we're looking at $13 million extra as a bill to the taxpayers.
"The Government needs to provide evidence to the community of those contractual disputes being the cause of this delay.
"They've been in Government for three months and this is the first we've heard of it? I actually find that to be somewhat concerning."
But the State Government claims both sides of politics were made aware of the legal disputes with the Malaysian manufacturer in January, before the March election.
It says the bridge is now due to be completed by mid-March 2018, but it concedes that could be a tight timeframe to meet.
It anticipated 250 jobs would be created by fabricating the project locally.
With little inspiration to be drawn from a flat end to the week on Wall Street, ASX futures traders took a punt that this week might start a little higher.
But then again, it was neither a very big nor convincing bet.

The ASX had a poor week compared to its peers.
It fell 1 per cent, while the US edged up, Europe edged down and China was the pick of the bunch up 3 per cent, helped by its partial inclusion in the MSCI index from next May.
Australia's cause was not helped by the barbell nature of its index, with the huge weights of banks and resources at either end.
With the banks facing numerous challenges — now the states are taxing them — and the sentiment for commodities still poor, it is difficult to see where the investment lift will come from.
Looking at the trade figures, China still has a pretty healthy appetite for iron ore.

Figures released late last week showed imports in May rose another 6 per cent and are up 8 per cent in the year-to-date.
Iron ore futures gained a tad on Friday and didn't go backwards over the week, while spot prices crept up to two-and-half week highs — near $US57 a tonne.
That is the short term view. Longer term the picture is far bleaker, with another raft of downgrades being made, the most bearish from the big broker Citi.
Citi has cut its spot price forecast for 2018 to $US50 a tonne, but noted in the next six to eight months it could well be mired in the low $US40 range.
Citi's supply balance sheet reflects a 100-million-tonne surplus in China this year, on top a 60-million-tonne surplus last year.
There is a substantial tail-wind in supply with big expansion projects from Brazil's Vale and Gina Rinehart's Roy Hill hitting their straps.
Citi argues only a price collapse will arrest the flood of iron ore hitting China's already over-burdened ports and a price below $US45 a tonne is needed to bring the market back into balance.

One of the interesting dynamics is the sudden and rare divergence between iron ore and steel prices.
Hot rolled coil and rebar prices have remained elevated, largely due to the enforced shutdown of old furnaces.
The capacity constraints may keep steel prices higher a bit longer, but more efficient production is coming on line which will depress prices eventually.
The bigger issue is demand. Citi says growth momentum will slow and steel demand will flatline.
Long product steel, used in real estate and infrastructure sectors, has not grown much this year. Steel wire rod — or rebar steel — demand will take a hit if new apartment investment cools, as expected.
Steel plate production used in ship building and machinery surged in the first quarter, but the sustainability of that trend is questionable, while a new sales tax on small car engines may slow things there as well.
It points to flat demand at best, and nothing to halt the fall of iron ore prices in an already over-supplied market.
In another quiet week on the data front, perhaps the most interesting fresh insight will come from the first release of information from the troubled 2016 census.
The first cut of census data (Tuesday) will focus on housing related questions.
"This should enable economists to update their estimates of underlying demand for dwellings and the scale of pent-up demand — important given the high levels of residential building occurring in the eastern states," NAB's David de Garis said.
The RBA's private sector credit numbers (Friday) will be interesting on two fronts — business lending which has been weak and property lending, which arguably has been too strong to investors.
The regulatory crackdown on the riskier end of the housing market, as well as higher rates on interest-only loans, should have started to bite. If not expect some furrowed brows at the RBA and APRA.
Overseas, there will be a deluge of opinion from Federal Reserve speakers, with chair Janet Yellen in London, while San Francisco president John Williams is booked in for two speeches in Sydney and one in Canberra.
However, the key point of interest will be the release of the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, core PCE (Personal Consumption Expenditure) on Friday.
The consensus is for another weak number of 0.1 per cent growth month-on-month, down an already unimpressive 0.2 per cent in April.
Not exactly the numbers the numbers the Fed is looking for in its path to raise interest rates back to something like normal.
On the corporate front, the giant Swiss-based commodities trading house, Glencore, has thrown a curve ball at Rio Tinto's plans to dispose of it Coal & Allied business to Chinese interests.

Late on Friday, Glencore upped its bid for Rio's Hunter Valley mines to $2.675 billion, $225 million above the agreed offer from China's Yancoal.
The assets on block include Hunter Valley Operations, the Warkworth/Mount Thorley thermal and semi-soft coking coal mines and a major stake in the Port Waratah coal loading facility in Newcastle.
Glencore sweetened its bid with the promise of a swift cash settlement and $225 million deposit that would be forfeited if regulators didn't like the idea.
Sounds simple really. The problem for Rio is the risk of upsetting China.
Relations between Rio and its biggest customer have been somewhat uncomfortable since Rio's former head of iron ore in China, Stern Hu, was jailed for 10 years back in 2010.
Rio's board is currently mulling over things and will give an update ahead of the planned general meeting in London called on Tuesday to vote on the sale to Yancoal.
If Rio decides to take Glencore's money and run, the meeting will be adjourned without ever starting. The reaction to any snub in China would be interesting.
Monday
26/6/2017
Tuesday
27/6/2017
Wednesday
28/6/2017
Thursday
29/6/2017
Friday
30/6/2017
Monday
26/6/2017
Tuesday
27/6/2017
Wednesday
28/6/2017
Thursday
29/6/2017
Friday
30/6/2017
A State Government-administrated safety fund has been left almost $10 million in deficit through financial incompetence, Western Australia's peak mining body says.

The Association of Mining and Exploration Companies (AMEC) chief executive Simon Bennison said the Mines Minister had advised a levy which pays into the fund would have to be increased by 33 per cent next financial year.
"In managing a $30 million annual operating budget, the Government has now found that the trust fund is approximately $10 million in deficit," Mr Bennison said.
"Operating costs have increased by over 50 per cent in five years with no clear explanation.
"This is an unbelievable and unsatisfactory development which will have a major cost impact across the whole mining and mineral exploration industry."
The mining industry pays a levy which is kept in a trust fund administered by the Department of Mines and Petroleum.
The funds are used for activities which regulate safety in the mining industry, including stakeholder consultation, safety inspector training, and improved transparency.
But AMEC says under management by the department, the coffers have run dry.
He also claimed the department was using the levy increase to cover costs of the multi-million-dollar deficit.
"The ability of the department to cover the costs of their operations in relations to the levy have clearly displayed a clear deficiency, which now leaves us with a deficit that is excessive," he said.
"We are seriously concerned … and the industry is concerned about the lack of transparency with the whole situation."
The Department of Mines and Petroleum annual report 2015/2016 says there were lower-than-forecast levy collections in that year.
According to the report, the fund's deficit has increased from $3.5 million in 2015 to $9.8 million in 2016.
The 2016/17 budget estimates income from the levy to go from $22.9 million in 2014/15 and $33.6 million in 2015-16, to $31.1 million in 2016/17.
It notes income from the levy was down by $3.7 million in 2015/16.
Mines Minister Bill Johnson said in a statement, the increase in the safety levy was due to mismanagement by the former government.
"The former Liberal-National government failed to manage the Mines Safety Levy," he said.
"They have left a $10 million deficit to the incoming Labor Government.
"We have been forced to act to fill in this deficit."
He said the Government would work with AMEC to improve management of the levy in the future.
"We accept this situation can't be repeated, so I have written to AMEC and the CME to engage on a new way forward to improve governance of the levy for future years," he said.
If you work in the pharmacy, hospitality, retail or fast food sector, you may notice a change to your pay cheque next weekend.
The first round of reductions to Sunday penalty rates will be introduced on July 1.
Labor is vowing to keep fighting until the cuts are reversed.
But business groups argue some workers will be better off, with a wage increase of 3.3 per cent coming into effect on the same day.
Labor's employment spokesman Brendan O'Connor vowed to do everything he can to stop the changes.
"We are not going to allow let this decision to continue," Mr O'Connor said.
"If the Government thinks we have given up, they are sadly mistaken."
"We will relentlessly pursue this. And we believe we can, through the Parliament, ensure that the effect of this decision does not stand."
The Government is standing by the Fair Work Commission's ruling to cut Sunday pay, saying it respects the decision of the independent body.
Restaurant and Catering Australia chief executive John Hart is urging Labor to drop their campaign and move on.
"To make that a political issue, after what has been four years of debate in the Fair Work Commission, is plainly irresponsible," Mr Hart said.

But Mr O'Connor disagrees.
"I think it's pretty rich of anybody to argue that people's wages should not be falling in real terms," Mr O'Connor said.
It now appears the cuts may impact fewer people than originally thought.
United Voice national secretary Jo-anne Schofield says she is heartened by what she is hearing.
"A number of employers have already told their staff that they won't pass on any cuts, irrespective of whether they become law or not," Ms Schofield said.
AM has been told a number of businesses are holding off cutting Sunday pay, because they are worried the penalty rate may change again.
That could happen through Parliament if Labor has its way, or by the unions.
Ms Schofield says they had no choice but to launch a legal challenge against the cuts.
"We've been motivated by the harsh impact that the cuts in weekend and public holiday rates will have on hospitality workers," Ms Schofield said.
The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry's Scott Barklamb says the potential different outcomes are making businesses nervous.
"Uncertainty is the enemy of doing business. Businesses need to know where they stand," Mr Barklamb said.
Mr O'Connor has this advice for employers: "I understand the position you take, but it is not reasonable for people's wages to be cut. And for that reason, they should take that into account."
Mr Barklamb is warning the uncertainty will impact business, which will hurt the whole community.
"We need all our decision makers, all of our parliamentarians to listen to business; to actually step back and think about the levels of penalties we are talking about, and what a fair thing is," Mr Barklamb said.
"And the commission handed down a fair thing: a reasonable balance between employers, employees doing business in the needs of the community. And we need to see it come into effect."
A week of delivering election promises and imposing financial pain on voters has provided a stark insight into the scale of the financial and political challenge facing the McGowan Government.
Just over three months after a thumping election victory, it is already having to make hard choices about which promises to keep and which to abandon, and who to hurt as it tries to bring the budget back under control.
The McGowan Government's early post-election moves delivered immediate results.
After scrapping the Roe 8 highway extension immediately, it then secured $1.6 billion in Commonwealth money for Metronet and other transport plans.
It started a radical overhaul of the public service, abolishing 41 departments and director-general positions, to create 25 new super departments.
This week came the delivery of 300 more education assistants followed by a commitment to local workers, axing 142 occupations from the list of skilled migration workers who can find employment in WA.
But in the same week, the voters who put Mark McGowan and his government in power got their first real glimpse of the hip-pocket pain coming their way in Labor's first budget due in September with a hefty hike in household fees and charges.
The yearly fee increase per household is $438, which will help the Government generate $238 million in extra revenue over the next four years.

It is a substantial hit compared to recent years — last year's increase under the Barnett government was $257.
Driving that increase is a $169 per annum power price rise resulting from almost doubling the daily charge people pay to connect to the power grid from 48.6 cents to 94.9 cents a day.
Mr Wyatt said the decisions were tough, but he expected most of the public to understand why they were made.
"Every part of the community will be looked to, to put their bit in," Mr Wyatt said.
"To put their shoulder to the financial wheel to try to ensure that the mess that we have inherited is indeed fixed and create a much more financially sustainable footing."
The question for WA's hard-pressed households and businesses is: What is coming next?
During the election campaign, Mr McGowan repeated the line, "there will be no new taxes on West Australians or increases of taxes" ad nauseam.
Despite continuing speculation about the possibility of a broad-based tax or levy, the McGowan Government has rejected suggestions a $270 annual levy on investment property owners that has been under consideration would be breaking their "no new taxes" election promise.
After weeks of repeatedly refusing to repeat the line, Mr Wyatt now seems to be standing firmly by the promise delivered by his leader.
"It's still where we stand absolutely," Mr Wyatt said on Friday.
"The Premier made that clear during the election campaign and that's what we are trying to achieve."
But as the man in the fiscal hot seat, he knows only too well the difference between trying and achieving that outcome.
If he does, it may be business, not households who bear the burden of budget repair, with Mr Wyatt embracing a proposed South Australian tax on its banks as an "attractive option".
At the three-month mark, ABC chief political reporter Jessica Strutt suggested the 'honeymoon' period after the landslide win had come to and end.
Treasurer Ben Wyatt responded in The West Australian, saying the honeymoon had been more like "a holiday in hell", blaming the dire state of the financial books it had inherited from the Barnett government.
As he prepares to bring more pain in his first budget on September 7, Mr Wyatt will not be expecting his post-honeymoon "holiday" to get any more relaxing.
The Victorian Government has reached an agreement with the Greens and the Sex Party on a bill to legalise ride-booking services such as Uber.

Taxi and Uber users will only be slugged an extra $1 per trip after the Andrews Government backed down on its plans to impose a $2 levy.
The agreement was reached in a rare, marathon sitting of the Upper House on Friday when the Government agreed to amendments to reduce the levy, put forward by Sex Party MP Fiona Patten.
The Government is abolishing taxi licences and introducing a single scheme for taxis, hire cars and ride-booking services, in a move that devalues licences previously worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The ride-booking regulations include a $494 million package to provide compensation and transition funding, for taxi and hire car licence holders.
"The view of the Andrews Labor Government is that the industry should be supported during this period of change," said Jacinta Allan, the Minister for Public Transport.
"That is the purpose of the levy. And we're pleased that there has been support in the Parliament for the levy so that we can provide for the compensation support."
The changes will not be opposed by the Government when the bill goes back to the Lower House.
However Parliament will not sit again until August.

Greens MP Samantha Dunn said the changes were crucial to winning their support for the legislation.
"I think it's a far improved bill than what it was," she said.
"What we see now is a $1 levy across the board that's much fairer for passengers in Victoria.
"It's much fairer for the pensioners who rely on taxis to get to shops and health care centres."
The Government will also consider implementing a different levy in regional areas.
"We were really concerned for people in the country having to pay for a levy that essentially was paying out people in the city," Ms Dunn said.
Both the taxi industry and Uber have opposed the levy as an unfair impost on consumers, and raised concerns it may be used to generate state revenue rather than pay out compensation.
Taxi licence holders have staged repeat protests over the changes, saying the compensation scheme does not go far enough and will ruin them financially.
The legislation allows for the levy to be increased if the Essential Services Commission agrees it is not raising enough money to recoup compensation costs.

The manufacturer of a drug described as "life-changing" for people with narcolepsy has been criticised for having some of the biggest price hikes over the past 10 years.
The medication, called Xyrem, is manufactured by a company called Jazz.
Pharmaceutical industry expert Tracy Staton, from FiercePharma, said the company had increased the cost of Xyrem by more than 800 per cent in seven years.
"Jazz's price increases have been quite large, among the very biggest price increases among drugs in the last 10 years," she said.
"We did a ranking in 2014 across the industry and Jazz was at the top."
Jazz is not the only drug company to significantly hike its prices.
In 2016, there was a huge outcry when it emerged the manufacturers of allergy drug EpiPen increased its price by 400 per cent over nine years, but Ms Staton said somehow Jazz had avoided the same level of criticism.

She said Xyrem accounted for three quarters of the company's sales, so its main way of boosting revenue was through price rises.
"It's really hard to make an ethical case for that, isn't it?" she said.
"Patients do depend on drugs that work for them. With the company like Jazz that depends so heavily on one drug to fund its operations, they do have to bring in money and to increase sales every quarter to satisfy shareholders."
Lucas Jose was sleeping his life away.
The 21-year-old has a rare condition called narcolepsy and cataplexy.

He was always tired — despite sometimes sleeping 20 hours a day — and strong emotions made his body freeze up.
Then he started taking Xyrem.
"It's changed my life incredibly. After three months I just felt like the old Luke before I was diagnosed with narcolepsy — I just felt renewed," he said.
He has been able to get his drivers licence, start university and work part time.
But it comes at a cost.

The drug costs his family $1,200 dollars a month — more than his parents' mortgage.
"I'm pretty sure I'm slowly sending my family bankrupt. It's very expensive and I am very fortunate that my grandparents have taken over the responsibility for paying for it," he said.
"I can't express enough gratitude to my grandparents for taking on that burden."
Ms Staton said Jazz had invested some of its revenue into research and development.
It is now working on a follow-up drug to Xyrem.
She said Jazz was not expecting to see generic versions of Xyrem on the market until 2025, but if it loses a court case, there could be a generic version available in America in 2017.
If that happens, it could potentially make the drug cheaper in Australia.
And that would be good news for patients like Lucas.
Residents of the multi-billion-dollar retirement village industry have described buying into a retirement village as a "financial sinkhole".
A joint investigation by the ABC's Four Corners and Fairfax Media into retirement village company Aveo has uncovered exorbitant fees and complex contracts.
One former resident describes Aveo's business practices as "totally rapacious, I don't know how they get away with it".
Fairfax Media and Four Corners spoke to current and former residents, their children, lawyers, former Aveo staff and lobby groups and found several alarming business practices at Aveo — including safety issues, misleading marketing and advertising and property sales.
The joint investigation obtained numerous Aveo contracts, which included clauses some lawyers described as complex and draconian.
Chief executive of the Consumer Action Law Centre Gerard Brody described some of Aveo's contracts as among the worst he had seen.
"Not only are they over 120 pages in length, they're dense, they're hard to understand, they're legalistic," Mr Brody said.
"And the financial obligations in them are eye-watering."

Current and former residents also described the company's model — which takes an exit fee as high as 40 per cent of the original purchase price, leaving outgoing residents often forking out in excess of $100,000 — as "financial abuse of the elderly".
Aveo has 13,000 residents across Australia and is expanding at a rapid rate. It expects to increase its resident numbers to 20,000 in coming years.
Those residents live in just over 11,000 units in 89 villages.
The company is rolling out two new contracts, the Aveo Way — which has exit fees of 35 per cent after three years — and Freedom Aged Care — which charge exit fees of 40 per cent after two years.
An exit fee is unique to the retirement industry. It is calculated as a percentage of the purchase price charged by retirement village operators when a resident sells the property.
Company documents and presentations state a targeted turnover of 10 to 12 per cent of residents each year — or 1,200 units a year.
Other large operators have a lower turnover of residents.

Former resident Geoff Richards, 80, helped Aveo reach its stated target to turn over or churn a number of residents or homes a year. The more residents that leave and pay exit fees, the more profit for Aveo.
Mr Richards left the Aveo Veronica Gardens village in the Melbourne suburb of Northcote last year after being unable to negotiate his ongoing residency following the death of his partner of 55 years, Harry Nash.
Mr Nash left his entire estate to Mr Richards, including the retirement village unit they shared.
According to documents seen by the investigation, Aveo began the eviction process because Mr Richards' name was not on the title, despite being a resident at the village for four years.
"Imagine if a husband and wife, and one of those died and was the only name on the title. Would they throw out the other surviving partner?" Mr Richards said.
Documents seen by the investigation show Aveo offered Mr Richards the opportunity to stay on but only if he paid $115,000 in exit fees and signed up as a new resident under a new contract.
He eventually reached a settlement offer with Aveo, which was subject to a confidentiality agreement and non-disparagement clause.
But as a certified practicing accountant he warns other elderly Australians from falling into the retirement village trap.
"If there's any way that can more quickly separate a person in a retirement village from their money, I don't know it," he said.
Mr Richards has since moved to a small unit in a nearby suburb, away from his friends at the village.
"I am now up here in a separate unit, wonderful location," he said.
"Instead of $6,000 a year in body corporate fees, I pay here $1,300 a year, yet the same benefits except for an alarm system, which didn't work [at Veronica Gardens] anyway."
He also will not have to pay exit fees if he leaves.
Aveo is a financial juggernaut with a market capitalisation of about $1.8 billion.
In 2016, it doubled its profit to $116 million.
The majority of its profits come from exit fees extracted from residents on their departure.
The Aveo Way contracts, which were brought in during 2015, have also been criticised.
Under the program, Aveo is buying back or on-selling freehold properties owned by the outgoing resident as a leasehold, thus reducing the value of the overall property.
Aveo said the new contract offered residents great choice and flexibility, provided residents with clarity and were simpler to understand. But some residents caught in the conversion process disagreed.

Angela Moore is a former resident at Aveo Mountain View in far-north New South Wales.
She left in 2016 after a two-year stay in the village with her husband Peter went wrong.
On June 20, 2015, Aveo held a meeting for residents that sent chills throughout the community, according to Mrs Moore.
Mrs Moore says at the meeting the residents were told Aveo wanted to buy all the units that were freehold and turn the village into leasehold, known as the Aveo Way.
"The overwhelming feeling was shock, disbelief and powerlessness," she says.
"Powerlessness in response to a big company saying that they were taking over our homes and ability to sell our homes."
When the Moores had purchased their unit at the village it was freehold.
The conversion plans left Mrs Moore deeply concerned about the future of the village.
Mrs Moore believed if Aveo bought more than 50 per cent of the units, it would devalue the village and the residents would lose power.
She and many others believed Aveo could then set strata fees to force out the rest of the owners.
The process left Mrs Moore so upset she and Mr Moore decided to leave.
"We still lost a considerable amount of money. But we did move at a time and in a circumstance where financially we were able to recover somewhat but … the move took a lot out of Pete physically," Mrs Moore said.
"Pete passed away within six months of us moving."
Aveo declined to be interviewed for the story.
In answers to a series of questions, Aveo said it did not push residents to convert to The Aveo Way, nor did it churn out residents.
It said national satisfaction surveys conducted within its villages revealed most residents felt safe and secure in the village.
It said it was standardising its contracts to improve the terms and conditions for residents to give certainty.
However, the investigation saw documents which showed Aveo was drastically increasing the resale price of leasehold units.
In one Aveo village in Sandringham, Melbourne, Aveo is offering to buy one-bedroom freehold units for $240,000 while marketing Aveo Way leases over one-bedroom units in the same village for $600,000.
Mr Brody said some residents may want to exit, but find the cost of doing so prohibitive.
"When it comes time to exit, some people can feel trapped," he said.
"It's a bit like a financial prison. These fees are too high to enable them to exit, move into aged care, or back close to relatives and family."
If you have more information on this topic, please get in touch with Four Corners.
Watch 'Bleeding Them Dry Until They Die' ABC iview.
If electricity consumers were not already being squeezed by the closure of Victoria's coal burning Hazelwood power station, an extraordinary lack of wind in the past few months has certainly compounded the problem.

The large wind-focussed generator, Infigen Energy has been forced to downgrade its full-year profit forecast due to what it says has been the least windy period it has endured put its current capacity together in 2012.
"Production for the 4th quarter is expected to be … approximately 40 per cent below the previous corresponding period and 30 per cent below the historical 4th quarter average," it told investors in a statement to the ASX.
"The current quarter is expected to include two of the lowest production months for Infigen's current Australian operating assets."
Infigen's 4th quarter started on April 1, a few days after Hazelwood closed.
Principal at energy consultants ITK,  David Leitch says he is not surprised given the recent weather pattern on the east coast.
"Unfortunately, it has played a part in the recent spike in wholesale power prices," Mr Leitch said.
"Prices are currently around $90 per megawatt hour (MWh) when they would be typically be around $75MWh," Mr Leitch observed.

With wind power operating well below its capacity, more expensive open cycle gas has been setting the prices in times of shortage on the east coast and South Australia.
Infigen noted some of its lower production would be offset by higher prices, particularly in South Australia, and from large-scale energy certificates.
Overall, Infigen said its full-year pre-tax earnings would be down around $10 million — or 7 per cent — from the $147 million guidance it gave in April when the doldrums set in.
Infigen said its guidance was given on the basis of past production and analysis of weather forecasts.
"Infigen had expected its east coast wind farms to benefit from weather patterns that typically result in high wind speeds and solid production in the second half of June," the company said.
"These customary seasonal weather patterns have passed to the south of mainland Australia, resulting in below average wind conditions at Infigen's wind farms in South Australia and New South Wales."
Mr Leitch says longer term, a lot of new renewable energy capacity would come on line, with futures pricing pointing to easing of prices in coming years.
"The downtrend is now firmly established and prices in the out years are significantly lower than in 2018, particularly in Victoria, Mr Leitch says.
Infigen owns 557 megawatts of generation capacity in wind farms in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia, or roughly a third of what was Hazelwood's 1600 MW capacity.
Investors didn't take the profit downgrade kindly with Infigen shares down 4.5 per cent to 74.5 cents per share at the close of trade.

The board of the embattled accounting organisation CPA Australia has terminated the contract of its high-profile chief executive Alex Malley.
Mr Malley has come under fire for his $1.8 million salary and the CPA's marketing budget under his leadership, much of which was spent on raising his personal profile.
CPA Australia says it has been obliged to pay Mr Malley $4.9 million in terminating his contract.

Mr Malley will finish as CEO immediately.
CPA's chief operating officer Adam Awty will be the interim CEO.
In a statement, CPA president and chairman Jim Dickson said Mr Malley's departure would "allow CPA Australia, CPA Australia staff and Alex to move forward".
"On behalf of the board, I wish to thank Alex for the significant contribution he has made over the past seven and a half years," the statement said.
"He has guided CPA Australia through a period of sustained growth. He brought an ambitious vision for our profession and was dedicated to supporting students and young leaders.
"Alex's legacy is an organisation with a global footprint and an ambitious outlook. We know that he will be very much missed by his colleagues and friends at CPA Australia."
Mr Malley's $1.8 million pay packet was revealed after CPA's very public spat with angry members over the secrecy that surrounded the remuneration.
Earlier this month Mr Malley defended his position, saying salaries were based on performance.
The professional accreditation body has also faced mounting pressure over its management style, heavy losses of its financial advice start-up and the departure of more than half its board en masse
Members are also questioning the professional system they are propping up with their expensive fees.
Between 27 and 56 per cent of CPA candidates failed their professional exams in 2016.
Re-enrolments of failed candidates would generate millions each year, industry observers have noted.
CPA's accreditation exams cost more than $6,000 in total.
The organisation defended is failure rate, saying it was "committed to protecting the integrity of the profession through the maintenance of high standards".
CPA Semester 2
2016 exam results
High
distinction
(per cent)
Distinction
(per cent)
Credit
(per cent)
Pass
(per cent)
Fail
(per cent)
Fallen education giant Careers Australia could have been trading insolvent for up to six months before it collapsed, according to a new report by voluntary administrators.

Careers Australia's 15,000 students and 1,100 staff across the country received no warning four weeks ago when they were suddenly locked out of campuses from Perth to Melbourne.
It has left many students in limbo unable to continue their courses and staff in the unemployment queue owed up to $17 million in entitlements.
The administrators also found that while Careers Australia was under severe financial stress it attempted to raise $87 million from the taxpayer using an education provider chaired by former Turnbull government minister Andrew Robb.
But the plan failed spectacularly when it was stopped in its tracks by the tertiary education regulator TEQSA.


Former Gold Coast staff member Roslyn Bennett told 7.30 she was angered by the findings.
"The directors of Careers Australia appear to have put their interests above students and staff," she told 7.30.
"People are going to be left in the street because of this, who is going to pay my rent?"
The debts are staggering with total claims by creditors topping $150 million, with the two largest amounts owed to banks Westpac and NAB.
The taxpayer is also seriously out of pocket with the Federal Education Department a creditor for $30 million, raising new questions about how it administered the soon to be defunct student loans program known as VET Fee Help.
In a report by administrators released late on Friday, Martin Ford and David McEvoy of PPB Advisory found Careers Australia could have been aware it was unable to pay its debts as early as December.
"Our investigations into whether the Group may have traded whilst it was insolvent are ongoing," Ford and McEvoy wrote.
"We believe that the Group may have been insolvent from as early as December 2016, but most likely from February 2017."
Company directors are legally obligated to avoid insolvent trading and a director that breaches that duty can face up to 5 years in jail and fines of up to $200,000.
The report raises concerning questions about the dire state of the company's books including:

While Careers Australia was under severe financial stress in March it attempted to raise $87 million from the taxpayer by dramatically ramping up student enrolments in the Australian School of Management.
ASM ran business and hospitality higher education courses and was chaired by Mr Robb.
But the plan failed spectacularly with the tertiary education regulator TEQSA launching a compliance assessment and capping its student numbers.
TEQSA has now cancelled its registration for failing to meet proper standards.
The ABC has contacted Mr Robb but he declined to be interviewed.
He was not a director of Careers Australia.
Rod Camm, the head of the Australian Council for Private Education and Training, said he was disturbed by the report.
"This report strikes at the heart of whether students have been put first [and] it appears to be a catastrophic failure to look after students," he said.
The report said Careers Australia was also relying on a "white knight" investor to inject $40 million into the business.
7.30 understands the white knight is Swedish investment banker Louise Svanberg, who was formerly a director of Careers Australia.
However, Ms Svanberg pulled her offer when the Turnbull Government refused Careers Australia access to its new vocational education scheme known as Vet Student Loans.
Prior to its collapse, Careers Australia experienced rapid growth by signing up large numbers of vocational education students to federally funded courses.
In May last year it signed an agreement with the ACCC where it agreed to pay $44 million back to the Federal Government for using door-to-door sales brokers who broke consumer law by misleading people by saying courses were free, would help people find jobs and offering inducements such as free iPads.
Careers Australia Managing Director Patrick McKendry did not respond when contacted for comment, nor did Careers Australia's CEO Walter Gilmore.
The administrators will recommend Careers Australia be liquidated at a meeting in Brisbane next Friday.
Barely three months after campaigning for the election of the McGowan Government, WA's biggest public sector union has refused to sign its industrial agreement, citing a lack of trust.
The Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU) said its members would consider industrial action if the Government continued to oppose clauses relating to no forced redundancies and no privatisation of services in the agreement.
The union's state secretary Toni Walkington said her members were not prepared to take the Government at its word, because it had already broken its promise to give all public servants a pay rise of 1.5 per cent.
Instead, the Government offered capped pay increases of $1,000 per annum.
"Members are concerned that the McGowan Government has broken one promise, so they want the surety of these provisions in an industrial agreement so promises can't be broken into the future," he said.
"Our members are just not prepared to countenance a situation where our agreement doesn't include those provisions.
"It's now up to the Government to come back and address those concerns."
Ms Walkington said her members were willing to accept capped pay rises but warned industrial action was a possibility if the Government refused to write its pre-election promises in relation to job security into the agreement.

"Things like work to rule, not doing overtime, only responding to emergencies, through to a whole range of different work bans, customer response bans, and ultimately I guess to withdrawal of labour," she said.
The CPSU was not the first union to flex its muscle with the new Labor government.
The WA Police Union commenced a work-to-rule campaign on Wednesday, accusing the Government of insulting its members with its new state wages policy.
The WAPU is also campaigning for the Government to fund stab proof ballistic vests for its members.
The Government was contacted for comment.
If your boss is engaged in corrupt, illegal or unethical conduct — but you are unsure about whether to report it due to fear of reprisals — you might be in luck.
The Federal Government plans to introduce a bill to improve protections for whistleblowers later this year.
Financial Services Minister Kelly O'Dwyer announced the plan to an audience at the University of Melbourne's whistleblowing summit on Friday.
She is considering the introduction of a "US bounty-style reward system as an incentive for whistleblowers", among other measures.
The minister was inspired by US laws that allow workers to be rewarded if the whistleblowing results in a successful prosecution.
"In the US, for prosecutions which result in more than $1 million worth of penalties, the whistleblower can get between 10 and 30 per cent," said Greg Golding, partner of law firm King & Wood Mallesons.
"$US30 million was the largest award ever made under that scheme."
Whistleblowers have previously helped to uncover Commonwealth Bank's dubious financial planning practices, and convenience store giant 7-Eleven's exploitation of its workers.
However, dobbing in one's employer can lead to unpleasant consequences including "loss of friends, colleagues, spouses and careers" in addition to "financial hardship, mental breakdown, drug and alcohol problems, and almost always isolation", Ms O'Dwyer said.
"I believe strongly that no-one should be worse off for blowing the whistle on misconduct and that all whistleblowers should have greater access to compensation if they suffer a detriment as a result of the whistleblowing."
She highlighted the case of Jeff Morris, who exposed CBA's financial planning misconduct.
"Exposing the bank's misconduct has taken a serious toll on Mr Morris," Ms O'Dwyer said.
"His anonymity was not protected, he was subject to death threats, he lost his job and in the end he lost his whole family.
"This is absolutely unacceptable."
"There are big gaps in the law that need to be addressed," according to Ian Ramsay, of the Melbourne University law school.
He said the whistleblower protections in the Corporations Act were "very narrowly drafted" and only protected current employees.
"You have to be an officer of the company or employee, but what if you've just been fired?" Professor Ramsay said.
In that situation, a former employee would not be protected.
"In other countries, such as the United States and Canada, they do a much better job of protecting whistleblowers against victimisation or retaliation" he said.

For example, the Office of the Whistleblower is an independent agency that is part of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Ontario Securities Commission.
In addition to protecting workers from their employers' retaliation, Professor Ramsay said the law also needed to "compensate workers who may suffer financial loss, get demoted or even lose their jobs".
The Corporations Act also penalises employers who victimise whistleblower-employees.
Professor Ramsay believes the "monetary penalties are very modest for corporations" — a maximum of 25 "penalty units", or $4,500.
The other penalty is imprisonment, which he notes is "difficult" to enforce against a company.
There are differing views on whether whistleblower-workers should be rewarded for reporting their employers' illegal conduct.
The Financial Services Minster identified that a bounty system may be "counterproductive", "deter people from coming forward at an earlier stage" and "reduce the opportunity to detect malpractice early".
"For example, individuals may only be willing to raise a concern when there is proof of a breach and certainty that a monetary reward will be available."
She also said "a reward system could encourage greater levels of nuisance reporting to regulators, leading them to a waste of resources checking claims that lead nowhere".
However, this is an argument that some do not agree with.
"Reward is not the main reason why people act as whistleblowers," Mr Golding said.
"The risk and uncertainty associated with whistleblowing for the hope of a final reward seems extreme.
"I am mildly in favour of a bounty system."
Mr Golding has a lot of praise for the US system, which he regards to be "very successful".
He noted in particular that the SEC received nearly 4,800 reports from whistleblowers last year — and approximately $900 million in the last five years from companies that wanted to settle the cases against them, instead of proceeding to court.
Professor Ramsay's view is that "bounties may well assist" as a law reform measure, but laws that protect whistleblowers from victimisation and allow them compensation should be higher priorities.
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission shares a similar view.
"It would be useful to focus on looking at anti-reprisal laws in terms of whistleblowers, and their ability to seek compensation in the event of reprisals," ASIC commissioner John Price said.
Ms O'Dwyer's suggestions for law reform are supported by the Federal Opposition.
"I'm pleased to see the Turnbull Government has decided to follow Labor's lead and adopt our plan to strengthen protections and incentives for whistleblowers," shadow assistant treasurer Andrew Leigh said.
"We welcome the Turnbull Government stealing Labor's policy ideas. In fact, we hope they'll take more."
In the space of just 12 months, a man called Mohammad Tawhidi has come out of nowhere to become one of the most prominent Muslim voices in the Australian media.
Imam Tawhidi claims to be a Muslim leader — and a brave Muslim reformer.

Through his appearances in the mainstream media, Imam Tawhidi has warned that Australia is being "infested by extremist Muslims".
"When I am worried about what I see is happening from my community and religion, trust me that there is something going on," he told the Seven Network's Today Tonight program on February 27, 2017.
On social media, his supporters, some from right wing groups, support his calls to shut down Muslim schools and ban Muslims from the Middle East coming to Australia.

But strangely for a Muslim leader, he has very few supporters in the Muslim community.
He has no mosque, and only a handful of followers. And just as curiously, he only appeared in the media for the first time just over a year ago.
So who was he before he became a media star?

This is what Imam Tawhidi claims about his educational qualifications:
"I travelled to Iran, to the holy city of Qom, in 2007, and I engaged in my Islamic studies from there. I received my bachelor's degree and my master's degree in Islamic theology from the Al-Mustafa University."
- Mohammad Tawhidi, 2GB, May 25, 2017
But Al-Mustafa International University in Iran says Imam Tawhidi has no bachelor's degree from their university, let alone a master's.
He started at the university, but dropped out.
In a letter, Al-Mustafa International University said:
"In spite of given warnings and notifications, the above-named person did not take heed of them each time and had not satisfactory academic record in his courses … he was placed on probation and [dropped] out on March 27, 2012 … the aforesaid person has no educational degree (or any given score) in his profile … Al-Mustafa University does not recommend Mohammad Touhidi for lecturing in any way. Accordingly, he has no competency to do religious activities or to preach sermons."
Imam Tawhidi says he is a moderate Muslim reformer — but his very recent past shows he has connections to a religious leader who is anything but moderate.
After Imam Tawhidi dropped out of university, he fell in with a fringe seminary school in Iran, run by a controversial religious family known as the Shirazis.
Imam Tawhidi studied under its senior cleric, the Grand Ayatollah Sayid Sadiq Husseini Shirazi, and later went to work in one of the Shirazi-run TV stations in Iraq.

In February 2016, when Imam Tawhidi set up his Islamic Association of South Australia in Adelaide, Ayatollah Shirazi put out a press release in Iran claiming a connection with Imam Tawhidi and this new Australian-based organisation.
However, the beliefs of Ayatollah Shirazi are not at all aligned with the moderate brand of Islam that Imam Tawhidi calls for when he appears on Australian television.
For example, central to Ayatollah Shirazi's teachings is the insistence on an Islamic system of government, not a secular democracy.
Ayatollah Shirazi also teaches that women should be covered head to toe, and are not suited to holding positions in government, and that it is permissible for a girl to marry from the age of nine.
Here is what Imam Tawhidi says:
"I do not attribute myself to any to anyone, at all. Anyone at all. I am a free human being … Yes, I am a student of the Grand Ayatollah Sayid Sadiq Al-Husseini Shirazi and he crowned me … I am not a representative of the Grand Ayatollah Shirazi.  What's going on between me and the Sayid, that's nobody's business …  I have his picture in my office, that doesn't mean that I represent him or I speak on his behalf."
- Mohammad Tawhidi, Facebook, June 19, 2017
But even Muslims who should be his natural allies are sceptical.
Zuhdi Jasser, the founder and president of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, is a leading figure among the movement to reform Islam in the United States, and appears regularly on media outlets in the United States like Fox.
"Shirazi is no reformer. So for me to believe the veracity of an individual that claims to be about reform, and says many things that should appeal to most Australians, I would hope they would do some research and say: 'he says this to Australians, does he also say this to the Shirazi community?'" Mr Jasser told Background Briefing.
Dr Jasser questioned how Imam Tawhidi's views could change so radically in two years.
"I am all ears if Tawhidi wants to explain … then I will take him seriously," he says.
Imam Tawhidi's use of social media has attracted both notoriety and attention for years.
In particular, he has been accused of posting inflammatory statements about revered figures from the Sunni sect of Islam.
In Islam, there are two main strands: Shia and Sunni. Imam Tawhidi is a Shia Muslim.
In Australia, Sunni and Shia have a long history of peaceful co-existence — and many in Australia's Muslim community don't like people coming in and stirring the pot.
A Facebook group was set up by Australian Shia Muslims in 2015, to try and expose Imam Tawhidi's apparent sectarian tendencies.
The group's admin spoke to Background Briefing, but didn't want to be named.
"Here in Australia we all want to live in peace, whether we be whatever religion or whatever denomination," the admin said.
"I go to a mosque that might be Shiite, or it might be Sunni, we are all brothers here trying to establish ourselves. We already have the bigots that hate Islam all together, and now we have someone trying to cause division within the Muslim community."
In April 2016, Imam Tawhidi said on his Facebook page that Sunni books are "full of monkey teachings" and that Sunnis are followers of an "alcoholic rapist caliph and obscene woman".
Some members of the Australian Muslim community say Imam Tawhidi is stirring up trouble.

"Up to my knowledge, I haven't seen any attack between the Sunni and Shia, until he come to Adelaide," Ahmed Zreika, president of the Islamic Society of South Australia says.
"When he come to Adelaide, I see on the social network, all the time, Sunni people and Shia people are fighting on social media (for him)."
Muslim leaders say that any stirring up of sectarian tensions goes against long traditions of tolerance and harmony in Australia.
"In Australia we have been very successful in both the Sunni and Shiite community in coexisting because the dominant culture in Australia is of co-existence," Professor Mohamad Abdullah, director of the Islamic Centre for Thought and Education at the University of South Australia, says.
"I think anyone coming in and criticising the Sunni or criticising the Shia in the guise of reformation … is problematic."
Imam Tawhidi only appeared in the Australian media for the first time early last year.
Before that, he was a virtually unknown Shia preacher who had arrived back in Australia after nine years spent overseas, mainly in Iran and Iraq.
What prompted him to morph into media star?
In late 2015, Imam Tawhidi sent an open letter to the Shiite Muslim community.
"The teachings I learnt were not incorrect but some were better off concealed … the coming year, 2016, will be a big year for me," he wrote.
"You will be seeing and hearing more of me in the media and social networks. Thus, I request from you all to keep in mind that my mission is an ideological one … There shall be a change of course. This is a matter our beloved Marja Taqlid, has advised and having respect for such a noble figure, I pay obeisance."
Roughly translated, "Marja Taqlid" means "religious leader" — so your Marja Taqlid is the person whose religious authority you've chosen to follow.
Background Briefing has seen two Facebook posts by Imam Tawhidi from late 2014, that clearly state the Grand Ayatollah Shirazi is his Marja Taqlid.
Imam Tahidi says he's a "free human being".
But if Imam Tawhidi's new focus on mainstream media coverage is indeed part of a change of direction advised by Shirazi, then this raises questions about Imam Tawhidi's ultimate goals.
Listen as Background Briefing untangles the backstory of Imam Mohammad Tawhidi.
In the classic 1969 film The Italian Job (and the 2003 remake), there's an object lesson in how to pull off a successful bank heist: first create a diversion, then go in for the kill.
SA Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis' cunning diversion was a metaphor.
Calling his budget a thing of beauty, Mr Koutsantonis compared his financial blueprint to someone slinking down the street in a red dress.
While the public was busy digesting that unlikely analogy, the Treasurer slipped into the vault, hitting the banks with a state-based levy.
Now in the cold light of day, with the brazen nature of the 'crime' becoming more apparent, reaction has been swift.
The move has been compared to a GST by stealth.
Former Queensland Labor premier Anna Bligh, who now heads the Australian Bankers Association (ABA), says it smacks of a state "desperate to raise revenue".
That is unlikely to worry Premier Jay Weatherill, who spent much of 2015 arguing the banks were undertaxed.
Then, in the run up to the 2016 federal election, the SA Premier led arguments for a broadening of the GST to include financial services.
But the most handy weapon the South Australian Government has for its levy is the Commonwealth Government.
That's because the SA levy uses the same template as the bank levy Federal Treasurer Scott Morrison introduced in his budget in May.
"We agree with Scott Morrison that the Australian banks aren't paying their fair share of tax," Mr Koutsantonis said.

The key components of the SA levy are as follows:
It will apply to SA's share of the five banks' liabilities, which the Weatherill Government will calculate based on the state's current share of the national GDP.

Currently that is about 6 per cent.
The levy comes in on July 1 and on the Government's figures should equate to state coffers hauling in $370 million over four years.
But really the only thing the vast majority of everyday consumers will want to know is, will I end up paying for this?
Mr Koutsantonis says the banks haven't passed on the Commonwealth tax and he sees no reason why they should in SA.
"I agree with Scott Morrison. This is a tax that mums and dads will not pay," Mr Koutsantonis said.
"This is a tax that South Australian households will not pay.
"We are also introducing legislation not allowing the banks to introduce any levies specific to South Australia to pass this tax on."
It's worth revisiting this observation from a piece about Mr Morrison's bank levy, by the ABC's Carrington Clarke.
"Over the past two years, the banks have demonstrated their willingness to use oligopoly pricing power in retail banking to respond to regulatory changes and pass on higher funding costs," Morgan Stanley's bank analyst, Richard Wiles, said.
Not surprisingly, given the Commonwealth's own bank job, the reaction from the Prime Minister has been low key.
Crucially Malcolm Turnbull appeared to affirm the right of the SA Government to impose its own levy, if not the wisdom of doing so.
"The first thing is that states have taxing powers and they can raise such taxes as they wish and they do so," Mr Turnbull said.
"The question that Mr Weatherill has got to answer is [will] his decision make business in South Australia more competitive or less competitive?
"See, that's one thing to have a tax that covers the whole country, but when a state imposes higher business taxes within its own jurisdiction, is that going to drive investment, support, jobs within that state or is in fact going to make it less competitive?"
The banks' answer is clear.
The ABA's Tony Pearson says it's a direct threat to investment in SA.
"What it might do is make them [business] wake up on Friday morning and say — you know what, I don't think I'll invest in South Australia," Mr Pearson said.
"And when you have the highest unemployment rate in the country — 6.9 per cent — the only way to get the unemployment rate down is to invest in new businesses and grow the economy. And no-one has ever taxed their way to prosperity and that's a lesson that South Australian Government hasn't learned."
The banks' worst nightmare is now that one state has dipped its toe in, the others will dive in.
Western Australia's Treasurer Ben Wyatt told the ABC it's an attractive proposition.
"I'm not saying that it is being considered yet," Mr Wyatt said.
"We're watching South Australia and see how they're actually going to do it. But I'm not going to pretend for a moment that it is not an attractive option."
That should be a worry for the Commonwealth too, with states heading back to a time where they had a plethora of levies and charges the GST was designed to remove and simplify.
A South Australian-style bank tax could be an "attractive option" for Western Australia as it grapples with record debt, Treasurer Ben Wyatt says as he prepares to hand down his first budget in September.
On Thursday, the South Australian Government proposed its major banks be taxed a quarterly levy of 0.015 per cent on bonds and deposits over $250,000.
Mr Wyatt said he had briefly spoken to SA Premier Jay Weatherill and Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis about the tax.
"I am not going to pretend it's not an attractive option," Mr Wyatt said.
"Revenue sources that generate lots of money are something that all state treasurers look to.
"I am not saying it's being considered yet, we're watching South Australia and seeing how they're actually going to do it."
But despite flagging the appeal of the tax, he said the Government had no plans to break its "no new taxes" election pledge.
"It's still where we stand absolutely," Mr Wyatt said.
"The Premier made that clear during the election campaign and that's what we are trying to achieve."
His comments come after the Government yesterday announced a $440 yearly increase to household fees and charges that is expected to generate $238 million in extra revenue over the next four years.
It includes a $169 per annum power price increase resulting from a hike in the daily charge people pay to connect to the power grid from 48.6 cents to 94.9 cents a day.
Mr Wyatt dismissed backlash from the Opposition and a warning from an energy sustainability expert that it would send the grid into a "death spiral" and would penalise families that had invested in solar power.
"I am very aware of the death spiral argument but I think people see value in being attached to the grid, particularly those people who want to trade in their electricity supply," Mr Wyatt said.
"You still need to be able to move electricity around and that's the value of a grid."
He said there had been "a range of responses" to the move to lower the cap on some rebates for Seniors Card holders.
Currently both Commonwealth concession card holders and WA Seniors Card holders can access water service rebates capped at $600, local government rates capped at $700 and a 50 per cent rebate on electricity connection charge.
While Commonwealth concession card holders will not lose those benefits, people who only have a Seniors Card will have those three rebates capped at $100 per household.
"I do think that the changes have been fair, [there's been] no change to eligibility but we have had to take control of the spend around local government and water rate rebates," Mr Wyatt said.
The State Opposition has called on the Government to immediately rule out a tax on banks.
WA's shadow treasurer Dean Nalder said the focus should be on the GST.
"The point of the bank levies were done away with when we introduced GST," Mr Nalder said.
"The fundamental issues is that the GST is broken and we really need to get that fixed."
Mr Nalder also questioned if taxpayers would ultimately bear the cost of any tax on banks.
"The banks have a history of just passing it straight through so it would be another impost and burden on ordinary people in their banking accounts," he said.
Tenants at the Chalcots Estate in north London have had a nervous week.
Last Wednesday they could see the smoke billowing from the Grenfell Tower inferno just a few kilometres away.
Like so many others living in high-rise homes across the United Kingdom, they've spent the past few days asking themselves, "is my apartment safe?".
"Yeah, I'm worried," Pei Ng said.
"We know they've been doing safety checks, we've had letters from the council. I'm not reassured."

The residents are angry to learn their towers also contain combustible external cladding.
The aluminium composite panels, which are put on buildings to make them more energy efficient, are suspected of contributing to the rapid spread and intensity of the enormous Grenfell blaze that claimed at least 79 lives.
"[The cladding] is aesthetically pleasing but I'd rather live in an unappealing place than a fire hazard," said Jennifer Stewart-Cocco, a resident of one of the towers on the Chalcots Estate.
"Safety is more important than looks."
The local council claims the combustible panels should have never been installed.
It says it was misled by the company that installed them.
Workmen have already begun the task of removing the cladding and fire wardens will patrol the estate around the clock until the job's done.

But there are fears the problem could be widespread across Britain.
About 600 high-rise blocks are currently being tested.
At the time of writing, 11 towers in eight different places have been found to have combustible cladding.
"The relevant local authorities and local fire services have been informed," British Prime Minister Theresa May said.
"As I speak they are taking all possible steps to ensure buildings are safe and to inform affected residents."
Some on the Chalcots Estate believe the Grenfell Tower inferno is a horrible symbol of inequality in the UK.
They claim the concerns of social housing residents have been repeatedly ignored, while those living in new London apartment blocks have all the latest fire safety measures in place.
"The gap between the rich and poor is getting wider," local resident Dominic Reay said.
"Why are they only dealing with this [combustible cladding] now?"
But fire safety experts say it is highly likely that private buildings have the cladding too.
There is now an enormous push to ensure the Grenfell Tower tragedy becomes a turning point for the UK — a disaster that ensures the nation's fire safety regulations are overhauled.

After more than 15 years together, ABC Radio Adelaide Breakfast duo Matthew Abraham and David Bevan will soon part ways.
Abraham announced to listeners this morning that he would leave the popular show next Friday, June 30.
His departure marks the end to one of the ABC's most successful partnerships, with Abraham and Bevan first broadcasting together in 2002.
Matt and Dave, as they are affectionately known, began in the Mornings timeslot.
The pair soon became famous for their robust and no-ground-given approach to political interviews.
Abraham and Bevan achieved record ratings success for the ABC in Adelaide, with 34 number one wins.
They will finish on their 13th consecutive number one win.

"This has been a really hard decision," Abraham said.
"I'm stepping away from the microphone; I'm stepping away from radio."
Abraham plans to have a year's break sleeping, fishing and writing.

ABC Radio Adelaide manager Graeme Bennett said the duo had become a quintessential part of the local media landscape.
"Since their move to the notoriously competitive breakfast timeslot they have dominated the local agenda," Mr Bennett said.
"Matt leaves the ABC at the top of his game, with a deserved reputation as one of the finest journalists the state has produced."
Bevan will continue to host the ABC Radio Adelaide Breakfast program solo.


The Australian stock market is set to open flat, following a lacklustre lead from US equities.
The New York bourse essentially broke even, not making any substantial gains or losses.

Healthcare was the best performing sector on Wall Street, which helped keep the US market afloat, while banking stocks were amongst the worst performers.
Oil prices managed to rebound, after falling sharply to a 10-month low this week.
Market sentiment was still negative as the global crude glut continues despite OPEC's output cuts.
It was forecast to be a quiet day for Australian economic news, as no official data is to be released today.
American healthcare shares posted sharp gains after Senate Republicans released draft legislation to replace the Affordable Health Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare.
The draft bill proposes to kill a tax on the wealthy that pays for the health insurance regime, and reduce subsidies to the poor in order to cut costs.
As a show of optimism, the S&P healthcare index has risen 3.9 per cent in the last five days.
But not long after the unveiling of the draft bill, Senator Rand Paul and three other conservative Republicans, announced they were "not ready to vote" for it.
Democrats need the support of only three Republicans to quash the measure in the Republican-led chamber.
If the Republicans manage to successfully repeal Obamacare, this will be a symbolic victory for the Trump administration.
US President Donald Trump made the Obamacare-repeal a centrepiece of his election campaign.
He previously said that his priority is to enact "healthcare reform" before he proceeds to reduce corporate taxes — the prospect of which has driven the global stock market rally since November 2016.
The Obamacare legislation was credited with expanding health insurance to millions of Americans since its passage in 2010.
However, Republicans say it costs too much and involves the federal government too much in healthcare.
The Senate is expected to vote on the bill next week.
Financials stocks were among the worst performers on Wall Street, as nervous investors monitored how the banks would fare in the Federal Reserve's stress test.
After the close of trade, the Fed revealed that America's 34 largest banks had all cleared the first stage of its annual test, which was introduced in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis.
It assesses whether the banks are able to maintain enough capital, in the event of an extreme recession.
The banks that were tested include Morgan Stanley, Barclays, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Citibank, Bank of America and Credit Suisse.
However, they still need to pass the second portion of the test in which the central bank approves or denies their capital plans.
The Fed was expected to release that component next week.
"This year's results show that, even during a severe recession, our large banks would remain well capitalised," Federal Reserve governor Jerome Powell said.
"This would allow them to lend throughout the economic cycle, and support households and businesses when times are tough."
The West Australian Government's decision to increase the fixed supply charge for electricity could send the state's grid into a death spiral, an energy sustainability expert has warned.
Treasurer Ben Wyatt yesterday announced a range of budget repair measures that will see average households fork out almost $440 more each year.
About $169 of that can be attributed to a doubling of the fixed charge component of electricity bills for those connected to the grid.

Curtin University sustainability expert Jemma Green said the price rise could see households embrace alternative energy sources.
"The perverse outcome of increasing the fixed supply charge is that in the short-run you might get more money, but in the longer run you're going to push people off the network and look for more cheaper alternatives," she said.
"That taken to the extreme means the network is no longer getting the revenue needed to support itself and it creates a death spiral."
Western Australia has the highest uptake of solar energy in the country, driven by rising power prices and falling technology costs, with installations rising by 33 per cent last year.
Dr Green said while the increase in fixed costs was a relatively fair way of repairing the budget, the 25 per cent of WA households that had invested in solar would feel worse off.
"I think this is a solution for the near term, but a more holistic solution on tariff reform will be needed to maintain utilisation of the grid and deal with the budget both at the same time," she said.
Opposition Leader Mike Nahan said it was a blow to those who had invested in solar panels because they would not be able to avoid the increased supply charge.

"It's a massive hit ... and you can't do anything about it. Indeed the people who benefit a lot from these increases are the people who use a lot of electricity," Dr Nahan said.
Opposition energy spokesman Dean Nalder agreed and said the change in power pricing disproportionately affected those who use less than average power.
"You can't reduce this ... by reducing your consumption of electricity, you have to pay it regardless," he said.
"If you're a less than average consumer of power it's more than a 10.9 per cent increase in your bill. So for smaller households this is a substantial increase.
"It's really discriminatory on those that use less power, and potentially those that have made the effort to go [to] renewable energy and put solar panels on their roofs."
The WA Nationals Leader Mia Davies accused the Government of targeting families in its bid to fix the State's budget.
Ms Davies said rather than slug mums and dads, it would have been better to implement her party's proposed mining tax.
"I do think ordinary West Australians will be looking for a revenue source that means they don't have to bear the brunt of what's happening right now," Ms Davies said.
"From our perspective there is a revenue source there ready and waiting, they just need to have the intestinal fortitude to actually go and have the discussion."
The fee increases take effect from July 1.
It is said "success breeds success", but at troubled professional accounting body CPA Australia, it seems failure is delivering a pretty healthy revenue stream.

Amid mounting controversy about CPA Australia's management style, heavy spending on promoting its chief executive officer Alex Malley as well as his $1.8 million pay packet, heavy losses of its financial advice start-up and the departure of more than half its board en masse, members are questioning the professional system they are propping up with their expensive fees.
CPA is one of several organisations in the business of providing so-called "professional" accreditation courses.
Having already completed tertiary degrees, aspiring accountants are obliged to pay thousands of dollars more — on top of existing HECS debt — to gain further qualifications from groups like CPA.
Failure most commonly means doubling up on those expensive post-graduate fees.
Young accountant Kirsty Hinner is studying financial reporting for her CPA accreditation and is one of a growing number of graduates unhappy with system.
"It's not ideal to have to do a three-year university degree and then fork out thousands more for a private accreditation," she said.

However, Ms Hinner is in a bind knowing if she wants to get ahead, accreditation is essential.
"As a young accountant you feel a little bit strong-armed," she said.
"I don't have a choice but to choose from one of the associations. If I want to get a job, that is it."
She knows that almost half the students who sit the financial reporting exam will fail. And this semester there have been last-minute problems.
"So there was quite a bit of grumbling this semester," she said.
"CPA published a five page errata document with corrections to the textbook just days before the exam block started. So not very many people are happy about that, considering how much money we spend for that textbook."
CPA's accreditation exams cost more than $6,000 in total — even more for those who fail an exam and pay to try again.
Ms Hinner says students also shell out hundreds more for an associate CPA membership.
"We are the source of revenue," she said.
"So it is understandable that there is an textbook and an exam.
"If you fail your exam there is no resit fee, you pay your full fees including your membership fees again next semester."
Industry observers have noticed failure rates of post-graduate candidates at CPA have been rising in recent years.
Courtney Clowes runs a business helping thousands of CPA students. He says the number who fail has increased by an average of 10 per cent since 2009.

"We believe that's about 18,000 students a year failing, so if they all re-enrol that's $18 [million] or $19 million — a few of those people will leave the program — so you could conservatively say [there's] at least $15 million a year coming in from failed students having to re-enrol," he said.
That's almost 10 per cent of CPA's entire revenue.
Mr Clowes says the CPA's drive for growth is to blame.
"If you open the doors widely and let more people they're still going to get stuck at the exam point," he says.
And he says there is increasing commercialisation at his professional organisation.
"The tension there is, if you pre-screen rigorously you're going to have fewer enrolments which means lower revenues and lower membership numbers," he said.
"So if your KPIs are aiming at revenue growth and membership growth, you're going to be conflicted."
CPA Semester 2
2016 exam results
High
distinction
(per cent)
Distinction
(per cent)
Credit
(per cent)
Pass
(per cent)
Fail
(per cent)
CPA has defended its accreditation courses, and told the ABC in a statement that its students, "are required to demonstrate a high level of knowledge and skills".
"[CPA is] committed to protecting the integrity of the profession through the maintenance of high standards," the statement read.
The statement added CPA provided digital resources for students, including videos and online forums.
Mr Clowes — one of a growing number of external providers offering extra tuition to accounting graduates facing professional exams — says there needs to be a better screening process for prospective CPA students.
"I think it's unfair to students to let them in to an exam that they have no chance of ever completing. And the associate membership movement where people have left the organisation is enormous," he said.

CPA's main competitor, CA, says it has fewer students but rigorous pre-screening.
CA says it investigates if more than 20 per cent of students fail its technical subjects.
A third player, IPA, has fewer than 1,000 students each year.
Its masters course costs more than $25,000 to complete and has a fail rate of about 15 per cent.
Regardless of which organisation they choose, accounting graduates like Ms Hinner have to pay thousands for a private accreditation, if they want to get ahead.
"It just is the way that it is to be honest," she said.
"I'm a young accountant, not particularly in a position to change this system that has managed to be in place."
Injured veterans say they stand to lose hundreds of dollars per month under pending tax changes to disability support payments.
From July 1 a complex superannuation overhaul takes effect, closing an existing loophole and meaning some military compensation is taxed at a higher rate.
Veterans' advocates warn the move could push already vulnerable former servicemen and women to breaking point.
"If they're serious about veterans' suicide and veterans' mental health, they really, really need to stop doing this," former soldier and veterans' campaigner Shane Walker said.
"It is pushing blokes and females below the poverty line and it's causing them so much stress and anxiety contributing to the decline in their health."
The Government said fewer than 400 veterans were using the loophole and only started doing so when it was announced last year it would be shut down.
"If there is a loophole we need to close those down," Veterans' Affairs Minister Dan Tehan said.
"There weren't [any] veterans who were using this loophole when it was announced we were going to close it, now there's 390 who are using it but it was made very clear last year that that's what we would be doing."

The minister said Australian taxpayers provided very generous support to veterans and the ex-services community.
"We pay nearly $12 billion a year to look after our veterans' welfare and we have to make sure that we're making sure the money goes to the right places," Mr Tehan said.
Tara Young, who was medically discharged from the Royal Australian Air Force in 2008, is one of hundreds of veterans growing anxious about next month's changes.
"I will be losing over $400 a fortnight, which is basically rent and all that sort of stuff, and loans and things. So definitely impacts me adversely," she said.
From next month, the Iraq war veteran fears she may be forced to turn to charity for help.
"As a veteran who went to war, it's kind of offensive to me," she said.
"I just feel like I shouldn't have to be using charities, I should be getting looked after because my injury is service-related."
If you were to suffer a crime in Australia it would most likely be identity fraud. It costs the Australian economy $2.2 billion a year.
A growing component of identity fraud is the illegal porting of mobile phone numbers. Essentially, somebody convinces your telco they are you and has your number sent elsewhere, potentially giving them access to your personal details, such as bank accounts.
In the last 12 months cyber criminals have fleeced more than $5.8 million from the bank accounts of unsuspecting Australians.

Last week somebody successfully ported my number — while I was on the phone to Telstra telling them it was happening.
What ensued was a sleepless night wondering where my number had gone, what was being done with it and what the ultimate cost was going to be to me.
Thankfully I had frozen my bank accounts immediately and reported it to the police. Others have done the same but not been so lucky.
Deborah Brodie is a small business owner who saw my story on Facebook. The same thing had recently happened to her.

"It was very targeted," she said.
"It was 5.30pm on the Saturday of a long weekend. That gave them 72 hours where there was no security fraud access for the phone company. That gave them time to try and access the bank accounts and those sorts of things."
The scammers attempted to reset Ms Brodie's online banking codes, but her bank became suspicious and froze her accounts. She had no access to her money for 10 days.
"It was complete full-on panic, ringing every single person I could think of that had any form of asset of ours — mortgage companies, banks, the phone companies," she said.

Detective Chief Inspector Matt Craft, from the New South Wales Police Fraud and Cybercrime Squad, said they have had some success in catching out the scammers responsible for illegal porting.
"Many of the individuals we target here are involved in organised crime. That's their primary focus, that is their job," he said.
"We believe in terms of actual losses for the last 12 months, it's about $5.8 million that organised criminal syndicates have been able to obtain because of phone porting."
ID Care in Canberra is leading the way in helping individuals whose personal information has been compromised.
Professor David Lacey is the managing director of the organisation and professor of cyber security at the University of the Sunshine Coast. He says the criminals are staying a step ahead of the authorities.
"It's certainly organised, and in some cases so organised that crims know people are travelling overseas, know that they're not using their phone and are porting their phone before they're landing," he said.
Having been caught in one of these scams leaves you feeling ill, wondering when it might happen again since it seems to be so easy to do.
For their part, telcos say they are working on finding more preventative measures, such as extra layers of security.
Although, as I was told, I could add another security question to my account, but the person at the end of the line in an overseas call centre would be unlikely to even ask it. So what's the point?
Detective Chief Inspector Craft gave a few tips to offer to prevent the same thing happening to you: don't put too much personal information online, clear your mailbox so people can't steal your bills and understand how valuable your name, date of birth and address are to criminals.
If your mobile number is ported away, this is what you should do:
Once that's all been sorted, which could take days, contact ID Care.

Fire and termites will be no threat to a nine-storey all-timber office block to be built in inner Brisbane, according to the construction team.
Taller wooden buildings exist in Australia and around the world but 25 King, now underway at the $2.9-billion RNA Showgrounds redevelopment site, is touted as the tallest engineered-timber office tower on Earth.
The Brisbane building is due for completion in late 2018.
Cross-laminated timber (CLT) - layers of wood glued together under high pressure with the grain of each perpendicular to the one before and glulum - glued-laminated timber - will be used to erect the 45-metre tall structure.
Once completed 7,900 square metres of office space will be available for lease.
Acting Premier Jackie Trad, who turned the first sod, said it was a breakthrough for a building of its size.

"These materials are sustainable, strong and light, with a structural strength akin to the traditional concrete and steel," she said.
Lendlease said CLT had a lower carbon footprint than other building materials, the production process produced zero waste, and timbers were sourced from certified sustainably managed forests.
Lendlease managing director Mark Menhinnit said pre-fabricated engineered-wood was faster to work with and more environmentally friendly.
But what about fire?
"We've done a lot of testing over many years, burnt a lot of wood with CSIRO," Mr Menhinnitt said.
"The building just gets a char on the outside, the structural integrity is maintained through an intense fire event."
And termites?
"Everyone asks that question. It sits on a concrete podium to isolate the timber from the ground so we don't have that problem," Mr Menhinnit said.
25 King will be Lendlease's fifth engineered timber building in Australia.

It's well known younger people are struggling to buy their first home, but experts are warning of a "significant crisis" facing older Australians already in the market.
The pressures of carrying mortgages into retirement as well as finding suitable housing are leading to increased financial strain and even homelessness, according to the Council on the Ageing.

COTA described older Australians as the "forgotten faces" of the housing debate and is hosting a summit in Canberra alongside industry experts and policymakers to find a way to address the issue.
"If we're not doing something about it pretty soon then in 10 or 15 years we will be facing a really significant crisis," COTA chief executive Ian Yates told News Breakfast.
"We've seen some early warning signs."
Mr Yates said homelessness had risen amongst older people — particularly women — and it was not due to many of the factors of traditional homelessness.

"It's an economic issue, a financial issue for people,' he said.
"We're seeing more people entering retirement with a mortgage, and we're seeing the rates of home ownership amongst retirees starting to decline.
"The projections are they'll decline quite dramatically in the next decade."
The summit will consider six key issues that could hurt older Australians in the next two decades, including:
"We also have issues like later family formation — people who are divorced having unstable financial situations," Mr Yates said.
The summit will also look at the rental challenges facing older Australians.
The 2017 Rental Affordability Snapshot report by Anglicare found just 6 per cent of the market was affordable for a single older person living on the Age Pension.
"There is a whole group of people currently in their 50s and 60s who will be retiring as renters," Mr Yates said.
What's more, researched published by the University of South Australia earlier this year found age discrimination in the workplace was rife and workers over 50 are in the hardest age bracket to find a new job.

"Unfortunately older Australians make up a very significant proportion of the long-term unemployed," Mr Yates said.
"So you've got people coming into retirement after years of financial stress."
Grattan Institute chief executive John Daley is the keynote speaker at the summit and said change must begin now for there to be a "fighting chance" of turning the tide.
"We are dealing with a vastly different economic landscape than 10 years ago," he said.
"Policymakers must come up to speed with the key issues and trends in housing for older Australians, including re-evaluating assumptions about home ownership that underpin age pension policy."
Global liquor behemoth Diageo will pay up to $US1 billion ($1.32 billion) to buy a tequila brand co-founded by movie star George Clooney.
Diageo said it will pay $US700 million for Casamigos — which means "house of friends" — at first, and then pay another $US300 million over 10 years if the brand reaches certain performance milestones.
Clooney founded the Casamigos brand four years ago with nightlight entrepreneur Rande Gerber and real estate developer Mike Meldma.
London-based Diageo's other brands include Johnnie Walker, Guinness and Captain Morgan.
Clooney and Gerber, who is married to model Cindy Crawford, have appeared in adverts for the brand.
Diageo said the founders would continue to promote Casamigos and have a say in its future.
The deal is expected to close in the second half of this year.
"If you asked us four years ago if we had a billion-dollar company, I don't think we would have said yes. This reflects Diageo's belief in our company and our belief in Diageo," Clooney wrote in a statement.
"We'll still be very much a part of Casamigos. Starting with a shot tonight. Maybe two."
The deal comes two weeks after rival liquor company Pernod Ricard took a stake in mezcal maker Del Maguey and highlights the opportunity companies see in Mexico's native spirits.
A new spate of high-end tequilas has helped the drink transcend its traditional image as a party beverage for young drinkers.
Its sales rose 5.2 per cent globally last year, according to data tracker IWSR, outperforming a spirits industry that edged up only 0.3 per cent.
AP/Reuters
In the decades before they became a cultural phenomenon, Australians consumed avocados in but two dishes: accompanying prawn cocktails, or served with salad. So what happened?
One person you might ask is Antony Allen. Few in Australia know more about avocados than he does.
Soft-spoken, with an adman's glasses, Mr Allen is a qualified horticulturalist, the current president of the International Avocado Society, and a former chief executive of Avocados Australia.
Mr Allen is also chief executive of The Avolution — a coalition of Queensland avocado growers whose Pinterest page offers the beguiling taxonomy of "catchy food info", "fresh retail", and "recipes yum".
On The Avolution's website, the picture placed next to his biography is a Hass avocado tree. But Mr Allen hasn't always been a champion of the green-skinned goody.
"I used to pick the mushy bit out [of salads] whenever my mother put the avocados in," he says. "I wouldn't touch it."
For a while, being classed as a salad staple led to a degree of stigmatisation, Mr Allen says.
Now those days are long gone. A growing awareness of the avocado's utility, its relatively high monounsaturated (or "good") fat content, and concerted marketing campaigns have led to some wild numbers in the Australian fruit context.

Over the last decade, per capita consumption has tripled (from 1.2kg to 3.5kg), production has more than doubled (to 60,000 tonnes) and the gross value of the industry has nearly quintupled (from $100 million to $460 million).
As John Tyas, current chief executive of Avocados Australia, says: "Once people get the taste for avocados, there's actually nothing else you can put in there to substitute."

Avocados are not native to Australia. Their seeds were first brought here in 1840, before being planted in Sydney's Royal Botanical Gardens.
Almost immediately, nothing happened.
As Mr Tyas puts it: "They sat there for a century, and nobody really did much with them."
The berry — yes, fruits of the avocado tree are technically berries — had long been a staple of diets across Central America and the Caribbean.

For years, despite recognised health benefits, avocados struggled to gain a foothold in a Western diet.
In a 1915 annual report of the California Avocado Association, an agricultural explorer at the Office of Foreign Seed and Plant Introduction queried: "Why [has] not the extraordinary value of this fruit been earlier recognised?"
According to Mr Tyas, part of the reason is that avocados are difficult to grow — most varieties of the fruit flourish only in subtropical climates, and their root system is quite poor.
"They love water, but they don't like wet feet," he muses. "So they're a little bit precious."
Commercial opportunities for the fruit were limited, too, until widespread adoption of drip irrigation sufficient advances in combating cinnamon fungus — which, as botanical pathogens go, is something of a nemesis of fruit once known to the Aztecs as ahuacatl.
Once you've figured out how to grow avocados commercially, it's an entirely different problem convincing people to eat them.
"It's an incremental process," Mr Allen admits.
Marquee fruit products can rely on rather simplistic advertising: the most successful jingle in Australian fruit advertising history, you will recall, consists mostly of repeating the word "banana".
For avocados, the messaging is a more subtle, one of usage change.
"We had to evolve the industry," Mr Allen says. Thus, the "Add an Avocado" line was born.
Sweet or savoury, hot or cold dishes, it didn't matter: "It was about giving people the perspective [that] avocados could do the same things they do for salads for other meals."

Something else happened over to coincide with the avocado industry's renewed messaging: an overall awareness in nutrition in Australia.
"Health became a much more important aspect of the Australian lifestyle," Mr Allen says.
"So you started to see [avocados] being added to chocolate mousses, cakes, cooking — all these sorts of things."
In the age of wellness bloggers on Instagram, the avocado has an additional advantage: its flesh is bright green.
Avocados are grown year-round in every state of Australia. This regularity makes them an attractive product for Australia's main retail game: the supermarket duopoly.
"Because it is produced year-round, it has enabled the retailers to get behind it," Mr Tyas says.

In turn, consumers know there will always be a fruit of the Persea americana available to them.
"That's helped people to get into regular purchase patterns as well," he adds.
When the demographer Bernard Salt suggested young Australians spend too much money on smashed avocado at cafes to afford housing deposits, the humble Caribbean foodstuff became an unlikely flashpoint for class and generational warfare.

Economic dismantlings of Salt's theory aside, ordering smashed avocado in a café came to stand for, as Barthes once said of steak and chips, "both a nature and a morality".
In its smashed form, avocado offered an easy generational shorthand — a way of at once railing against the profligacy of gen Y and providing a causal link for their poverty. And weren't people livid.
"Anytime you want to talk about millennials, about avocados — it sets off a live wire," Jayne Orenstein, a Washington Post reporter, tells the Money.
"It's like avocado toast represents what's wrong with millennials!"
Which is all very surprising, when you consider for even a second where smashed avocado began.
"I don't even know why I stuck it on," Bill Granger says, of his decision to offer avocado as a side dish on the menu at his flagship Sydney restaurant, bills, in 1993.
"I used to like avocado and I thought it was a nice thing to have with a bit of tomato on toast."
He wasn't alone, and once it was on the menu in its own right, avocado toast became a popular dish — years before some millennials were even born, let alone using social media.
Later, Granger would go so far as put a variation of his recipe in a cookbook.
"I remember thinking at time, 'This is really stupid.' People are going to think I'm stupid for doing a recipe for avocado toast in a book," he says.
Granger — and Australian café culture more broadly — has since been credited with the global rise of the dish, though the California Avocado Association's 1915 report mentions in its recipe section that avocado toast "is one of the nicest ways of serving avocado".
For Granger, the avocado's worldwide dominance was entirely unplanned, "a total fluke".

Culinary prophesising isn't his main game — he prefers to stick to making food — but when pressed, he offers one contender: rice breakfasts.
"People are a bit more concerned about not having as much gluten," he says.
"In a lot of cultures, rice breakfasts are already huge, but I think in Western cultures they're going to become one of those straightforward, everyday things."
Research by Kate Pearcy.
Australian shares are set to open higher today, recovering from yesterday's sell-off which saw the ASX shed 1.6 per cent in one day.
The local market seems to be defying weak leads from US and European stock markets — which finished mostly lower.

On Wall Street, it was a mixed day with the Dow Jones index weaker, the S&P 500 flat and the Nasdaq making solid gains.
Healthcare and technology were the best-performing US sectors, which carried the Nasdaq towards a positive finish.
The Dow and S&P 500 were weighed down by a share market sell-off, particularly energy stocks.
Once again, US oil and gas companies have felt the impact of oil prices falling sharply for the second straight day.
Banking stocks were the second-worst performers on the New York market.
Within the next day, the Federal Reserve is scheduled to begin releasing results from its two-part annual stress test.
This test was adopted in response to the Global Financial Crisis, to gauge banks' ability to weather an economic storm that could threaten the stability of the system.
The results will be the first since United States President Donald Trump took office.
Oil prices plunged by another 2 per cent overnight after hitting a 10-month low in volatile trade.
"Because people are seeing oil lower as another harbinger of lower inflation, a lot of other cyclicals (besides energy stocks) aren't doing well," said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer at Cornerstone Financial Partners.
Energy was the weakest S&P sector with a 1.6 per cent decline, despite larger-than-expected declines in inventories.
The energy index has fallen 14.9 per cent so far this year, compared with an 8.9 per cent rise for the S&P 500.
Furthermore, an agreement late last year from the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producers to cut output by 1.8 million barrels per day from January was supposed to reduce the global glut.
However, production has risen in Nigeria and Libya, countries exempt from the deal — which was the main reason why oil prices fell sharply, by more than 2 per cent, on Wednesday.
Oil has slid 20 per cent in the first half of 2017, a period when prices have tended to rise.
Today is a quiet day in Australian economic news, with no new data being released today.
As for our Kiwi neighbours, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand has decided to keep its benchmark interest rate at its record low 1.75 per cent.
"Numerous uncertainties remain and policy may need to adjust accordingly," RBNZ governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement accompanying the rate decision.
The NZ central bank reiterated that it would keep them unchanged for a considerable period.
"Are you telling me I'm currently investing in tobacco?!"
Radiation oncologist Dr Bronwyn King made a horrifying discovery in March 2010.
At a coffee meeting with her super fund representative, she discovered — by accident — that her money was being invested in big tobacco.
"I was just so taken aback because I'd been a doctor then for 10 years and had superannuation for 10 years," she told News Breakfast.
"So for 10 years, I owned Philip Morris, British American Tobacco — I owned these companies. Because when you invest in these companies, you own these companies."
Dr King's voice trembles when she reflects on the horror she felt at that moment.
Up until that point she had never really paid any attention to her super.
"I was the classic disengaged member. I knew superannuation existed, but that was it," she said.
However, at that moment in the cafeteria, everything changed. She simply couldn't let it go unchecked.
Since then, Dr King has worked tirelessly to champion tobacco-free investment, bringing the issue to boardrooms of super funds across Australia and the world.

She is the chief executive officer and founder of Tobacco Free Portfolios and has helped redirect $6 billion of investment from the tobacco industry to other industries globally over the past five years.
It is estimated 41 Australians die every day because of tobacco, and according to the World Health Organisation the world is on track for one billion tobacco deaths this century.

Dr King believes that by engaging the finance sector we can change that trajectory at least a little bit, and she feels obliged to act.
"Most of my patients are either not here any more or are very sick, but I've got their stories," she said.
"I need to make sure that those stories are told and that we use those stories to change things."
When it comes to saving lives, Dr King admits her journey has been unexpected and she had a lot to learn when it came to taking on the finance industry.
"I was very green when I came to this," she said.
"I didn't understand any of the language, regulatory environment, the rules or the systems.
"I was just very naively coming in as a doctor saying, can we please fix this?"

One of the roadblocks she faced was justifying her stance.
She was frequently asked: "If we do exclude tobacco, are you going to come back next week and make us exclude 10 other industries. How can you justify excluding just tobacco?"
In response, Dr King developed a framework that suggested investors ask three questions of any company in which they may invest:
The trouble is, it's tricky to find out if your money is being invested in tobacco or not.
To tackle this, Tobacco Free Portfolios launched a crowdfunding campaign, seeking donations to help roll out their new initiative called "Verified Tobacco-Free".

The concept is a bit like the Heart Foundation tick.
Tobacco-free funds that agree to being audited (to confirm they are indeed tobacco-free) will be able to purchase and adopt the Verified Tobacco-Free logo.
They can then display the logo on their websites and letters to members to proudly declare their tobacco-free status.
Tobacco Free Portfolios hopes the increased awareness of the issue will encourage other funds to follow suit.
"The goal is to raise awareness of this not just in super funds but in sovereign wealth funds, insurers, banks, reinsurers, fund managers," Dr King said.
Tobacco Free Portfolios are engaged with more than 100 of those organisations globally and their goal is to make Australia the first country in the world with a completely tobacco-free superannuation system.
Forecast budget surpluses have been dramatically slashed to free up funds in order to soften the blow of Holden's closure, today's South Australian budget will reveal.
Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis said a $72 million surplus was now forecast next financial year, down from $382 million promised at last year's mid-year budget update.
Mr Koutsantonis said it was time for the Government to use its surpluses on new infrastructure, such as hospital upgrades, to create jobs.
"In 119 days Holden closes, in 119 days that transition is real for thousands of South Australians and now is time for the Government to step," he said.
"We've been building up to make sure those budget surpluses to spend when the headwinds are there."
The Government has outlined $315 million of spending at the Lyell McEwin, Queen Elizabeth and Modbury hospitals and the Flinders Medical Centre.

A new $528 million Women's Hospital has also been announced, to be co-located at the new Royal Adelaide Hospital site.
South Australia already has the highest unemployment rate in the nation.
To address that, the budget also includes a boost to the job accelerator grant program, with small businesses who take on a trainee and keep them for two years to earn a rebate of up to $9,000 over two years.
Bigger businesses will receive up to $15,000.
Mr Koutsantonis described today's budget as a traditionally Labor one.
"That's what this budget is about, the jobs of tomorrow," he said.
"Over the last two years we have been creating jobs, but of course we are losing an anchor tenant.
"We projected to have $1.6 billion in surpluses at the mid-year budget review but we're spending, we're spending in the economy, we're building infrastructure and we're trying to create jobs."
Other budget announcements included an increase in first-home-buyer grants for off-the-plan apartments in the CBD to $40,500.
The Government also announced $22 million will be spent on extra passenger services on the Gawler, Seaford and Outer Harbor train lines.
The privatisation of services provided by the Lands Titles Office appears set to boost the SA Government's budget bottom line by estimates of up to $400 million.
But a wide range of industry organisations are warning it will lead to the exploitation of valuable private information.
Expressions of interest for a 40-year lease to run the titling and valuation services closed in January, with the process of selecting a successful bidder expected to be finalised by the end of the year.
The Public Service Association, the Law Society, the Institute of Surveyors, the Institute of Conveyancers and the Real Estate Institute have all been arguing against the privatisation, describing the Lands Titles Office as one of the most efficient government agencies.
But the State Government is pushing ahead with the plan, which was flagged just under 12 months ago in last year's state budget.
Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis has defended the move as the simple outsourcing of the "processor" of the titles that would allow the successful bidder to commercialise private data held by the office.
But chief executive of the state's Real Estate Institute, Greg Troughton, said allowing a private company access to millions of pieces of private land title data was akin to "the fox being put in charge of the henhouse".
"I wonder how many South Australians would be up in arms if they knew that their driver's licence details were about to be given to a private sector company for them to commercialise the data and make as much money out of it as possible," he said.
"I think they'd be gravely concerned and I think that's what's going to be happening."
Public Service Association general secretary Nev Kitchin described the move as a "broken promise" by a Government that had previously stated it was opposed to privatisation.
He believes the move threatens the integrity of the state's famous Torrens Title system.

"We have real concerns when it's privatised that that business and the information contained in the computer systems and the network may be compromised into the future," he said.
"Ultimately [that] could render what is known as the 'indefeasibility of title' at risk ... that is the ownership of title to property whether you're buying or selling."
In a statement to the ABC, Mr Koutsantonis emphasised that "the State Government will provide a number of guarantees to protect the public interest and the integrity of the land titles system".
The Law Society's representative Phil Page said participants in stakeholder meetings held by the Government to discuss the privatisation had not been allowed to see the detail of those guarantees because they were "commercial in confidence".
The commercial value of land titles data is difficult to estimate.
But Mr Troughton believes the $2.6 billion paid by the Hastings Funds Management and First State Super consortium for the 35-year lease of the NSW land titles service shows it has a very high value.
He said there could be any number of ways the South Australian data could be exploited for marketing purposes over the next 40 years.
For private companies using very smart algorithms "there are opportunities in the data that you or I couldn't dream of right now but will no doubt cause us grief over the coming years", he said.
In response to concerns about exploitation, Mr Koutsantonis stated there would be "strong data security and service delivery requirements imposed on the new provider through contractual clauses, including penalties, step in rights and ultimately the termination of the contract".
Australian Institute of Conveyancers SA branch president Tim O'Halloran called on the State Government to provide more detail to industry bodies and the public about those protections that remain "commercial in confidence".
"We fail to see what the benefit is to the Government apart from a short-term cash injection," he said.
Mr O'Halloran was also worried additional costs, including title insurance, would become mandatory when the titles service is run by a private company.
No deadline has yet been set for the announcement of a successful bidder.
Industry estimates have placed the value of the lease between $300 million and $400 million.
The ABC understands the Hastings Funds Management and First State Super consortium that won the NSW lease is one of the interested parties.
A Panama-based company faces a fine of up to $17 million for allegedly spilling about 15 tonnes of oil near the Great Barrier Reef.

It is alleged the oil came from the ship Regina, owned by company Globex Shipping.
In court documents seen by the ABC, it is alleged the offence occurred at Pakhoi Bank, within a designated shipping lane in the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park.
Between 10 and 15 tonnes of oil washed up on beaches north of Townsville to Hinchinbrook Island and the Palm Island group in July 2015, requiring a clean up costing $1.5 million.
The clean-up effort took two weeks — at least two sea birds died and a turtle had to be rehabilitated for six weeks.

Globex Shipping will face the Townsville Magistrates Court in August charged with discharge of oil into the sea.
The $17-million fine is the maximum penalty the company can face can face if found guilty under the Commonwealth legislation.
World Wildlife Fund's Richard Leck said ships with poor safety and maintenance records should be banned from the region.

"The reef is too precious to risk by letting rogue ships come through the reef's waters and potentially have a major disaster on our doorstep," he said
"We're playing Russian roulette with the Great Barrier Reef."
Globex Shipping's legal representation Thynne and Macartney has not responded to the ABC's request for comment.
Queensland Ports Minister Mark Bailey said officers travelled around the world to identify the culprit.

"This is a very complex case. Seventeen ships could have been possibilities, we had an oil match against the samples of the beaches with seventeen ships who went to all parts of the globe," he said.
"Every oil sample from every ship is unique, and so there's been a process of matching them up."
Mr Bailey said the charges would send the message to the shipping industry that polluters will be caught.
"If you do the wrong thing and pollute our beaches, and pollute our reef, we will track you down and prosecute you," he said.
"I was outraged... I wanted us to make sure that we've made an example of the culprits because nobody reported this. That's the thing, nobody reported this as a problem, they get away with it — but not in Queensland"

University of Queensland maritime and commercial law expert Professor Nick Gaskell said even if the prosecution was to be successful, authorities might struggle to recover any fines imposed.
"The difficulty for a government is in trying to enforce fines abroad because most states would not recognise those fines," he said.
"If the defendant doesn't appear then you've got a real difficulty in enforcing those fines. Of course, if the ship comes to your shores again then it's at risk."
Professor Gaskell said it could be possible for the Queensland Government to recover the clean-up costs by dealing with the insurance industry.
"Most ships would have insurance cover for fines, provided it's an accidental discharge," he said.
"In many cases, the insurers might want to stand behind the ship owner because the insurer itself may well be directly liable for all the clean-up costs caused by the pollution."
The man known as the "Godfather of Coral" has called on the Turnbull Government to revoke its environmental approval for Adani's controversial $16-billion Carmichael coal mine proposal.
A former chief scientist of the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS), Charlie Veron is credited with discovering 20 per cent of the world's coral species.
"Coal mining is the number one danger to coral reefs now in the whole world," Dr Veron said.
"Somewhere between a quarter and a third of all marine species have some part of their lifecycle in a coral reef.
"So if we wipe out coral reefs, we are going to crash the ecologies of the oceans. It is that serious."

Acting for Dr Veron, the legal group Environmental Justice Australia wrote to federal Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg this month urging him to use his powers under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act to revoke approval for the Carmichael mine.
Dr Veron's legal letter states that since the mine was approved in 2015 by Mr Frydenberg's predecessor, Greg Hunt, the Great Barrier Reef had suffered its two worst coral bleaching events.
"It is clear that these events constitute very important information about the reef that was not before Minister Hunt when he made the decision to approve the Adani mine," the letter reads.
Environmental Justice Australia chief executive Brendan Sydes, who wrote the letter on behalf of Dr Veron, said the argument was not that the Adani mine had caused bleaching: "Clearly it didn't. It isn't even operating yet.
"But the argument is that this new information about the very perilous state of the reef is highly relevant to deciding whether the mine should proceed or not."
Scientists blame ocean warming for the death of about a third of the corals in the northern and central Great Barrier Reef in 2016.
A second mass bleaching event was confirmed this year.
"The combined impact of these consecutive mass coral bleachings stretches for 1,500 kilometres, removing the chance for corals within this stretch of the Great Barrier Reef to recover from the previous year's bleaching," the letter to Mr Frydenberg states.

Speaking to the ABC, Dr Veron said the bleaching events had "severely decimated" the reef.
"They've taken out something like half of all the corals, half the coral colonies of the Great Barrier Reef," he said.
In a statement to the ABC, the minister's office said Dr Veron's request had been referred to the Environment Department for consideration.
"The department is considering the detailed request and will respond once that consideration is complete," a spokesman said.
Dr Veron welcomed the department's consideration of his request.
"It could be just a fob-off but it could be a genuine thing, and if it's a genuine thing it's much to the minister's credit," he said.
Pre-construction works for Adani's Carmichael coal mine, in Queensland's Galilee Basin, will start in the September quarter of 2017.

Chinese stocks have finally been granted entry into the exclusive MSCI global benchmark equities index, the first step in a process that could see hundreds of billions of dollars of new capital flow into the country's share market from overseas.

MSCI — the giant New York-based stock index provider — has ruled that China's market has made enough progress on governance standards to be allowed a limited inclusion in its flagship emerging markets index.
While it is a small step, global broking houses suggest full inclusion could see up to $US500 billion ($660 billion) worth of foreign capital flow into Chinese equities in coming years.
Initially 222 companies — representing less than 1 per cent of the key Chinese listings — will be included in the index that is tracked by investment funds with estimated $US1.6 trillion funds under management.
From next year, those funds will be obliged to buy the Chinese shares on the index.
Previously, foreign investment in mainland shares — known as A shares - has been dominated by stock-pickers operating on a piecemeal basis.
Other China-related investments — in companies such as Alibaba and Tencent — have been made through Hong Kong listings.
It marks the end of the first stage of a four-year battle by Chinese authorities to gain access to the funds of the biggest global investors who have long been wary of — and prevented from — parking money in A shares.

The MSCI inclusion process suffered a severe set back in 2015, when a collapse of confidence sent Chinese shares plummeting and led to numerous suspensions of entire trading days, as well as many stocks.
Concerns about foreign investment restrictions has also delayed MSCI membership.
Despite being snubbed for years, China is the world's second-largest share market, with a capitalisation of around $US7.5 trillion — behind only the US with a value of $US32 trillion and ahead of Japan's $US5 trillion.
On Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures, the initial inclusion may initially bring around $US3 billion passive fund inflows and $US18 billion active inflows into the A-share market ahead of the index rebalancing in August next year.
"International investors have embraced the positive changes in the accessibility of the China A-shares market over the last few years and now all conditions are set for MSCI to proceed with the first step of the inclusion,"  MSCI Managing Director Remy Briand said.
"MSCI is very hopeful that the momentum of positive change witnessed in China over the past years will continue to accelerate."
The initial inclusions will be dominated by giant state-supported banks, utilities and industrial enterprises.
UBS China equity strategist Ting Gao said the A-shares were "part of their way in a global journey" towards full inclusion and an inflow of $US300 billion in new capital.
"Over the past two years, the A share market's progress towards globally accepted rules and regulations has helped ease foreign investors' concerns," Mr Gao said.

That includes new trading rules cutting the number of shares placed in long-term trading suspension.
MSCI made it clear further additions to its index depended on China becoming more transparent and aligned with global trading rules.
In other words, making further progress in eliminating the habit of intervening in the market to supress speculation and slapping on trading suspensions to arrest market falls.
However it may take some time for China to reap the full reward of full inclusion in global indices.
"Experience from Korea and Taiwan suggests it takes decades for emerging markets to go global, roughly 6-to-10 years to move from small initial inclusion to full inclusion," Mr Gao said.
Uranium firms are unfazed by a potential five-year deadline to get their projects up and running in WA, after the State Government would not guarantee approvals on existing projects would be extended.
The State Government yesterday reintroduced a uranium mining ban in WA, in line with an election commitment, but it cannot stop four projects that already had ministerial approvals from proceeding.
However, those projects' approvals will expire five years from being issued, and WA Premier Mark McGowan has warned companies his Government would be seeking legal advice on whether they would need to be renewed.
Chief executive of the Andrew Forrest-backed Vimy Resources, Mike Young, is in no doubt that his company's Mulga Rock project will be the state's first uranium mine.
"We're confident that we will start substantive works before 2021," he said.
Mr Young also confirmed his company had made investor presentations in recent months which stated the Government had reassured them "projects approved by the previous government will be able to proceed", although the Government only publicly clarified its policy yesterday.
The other two uranium companies looking to develop projects in WA were also unsurprised by yesterday's announcement.
Toro Energy general manager Andrew Worland said he was comfortable with the State Government's uranium policy because it provided certainty.
"It's consistent with what was said prior to the election and immediately subsequent to the election," he said.
"Their policy statement is not surprising to us.
"Had it have been in another direction, it would have been flabbergasting."

Cameco could present the McGowan Government with its first uranium challenge in early 2020, when the Canadian uranium giant could need to apply for fresh approvals for its Kintyre project.
But its Australian general manager, Simon Williamson, said it was too early to judge how Mr McGowan's pledge to potentially not approve new applications would affect Kintyre.
The remaining three projects would not need to seek new ministerial approvals, if required, until after the next state election in 2021.
Even if Labor won that election and kept the current uranium policy, it could get caught up in legal arguments with companies over whether they needed to seek new ministerial approvals.
One factor which could influence whether projects are deemed to have met the terms of their ministerial approval by the five-year deadline is the interpretation of the term "substantially commenced".
For example, in Toro's ministerial approval statement for its Wiluna project, it said "any commencement of any implementation of the proposal ... must be demonstrated as substantial".
"I'll wait until the time's right to spend the money to determine from a legal perspective what we think that definition is," Mr Worland said.
The head of one of Australia's biggest electricity companies has rejected coal as a solution to Australia's energy crisis.
In an exclusive interview with The Businesss, AGL chief executive Andy Vesey also urged the Federal Government to adopt the recommendations of chief scientist Alan Finkel, who delivered a report on our future energy needs a fortnight ago.
Dr Finkel recommended the adoption of a Clean Energy Target but insisted that all new renewable energy investment include some form of storage or back-up to ensure a stable flow of electricity.
According to Mr Vesey, AGL has opted for renewable energy, such as wind and solar, to be backed up by gas because it is the cheapest option.
"The economics are relatively simple," he said.
"If you look at the price of building large-scale coal, and look at the alternatives such as large-scale renewables that are firmed up with gas, we see the advantage in the long run — what we call the Levelised Cost of Energy — going to those other options.
"We do not believe that new coal plants are going to be the lowest cost options in the market."
There has been fierce debate since the Finkel Report was released with the Federal Government split on the issue, this week hinting that it may help fund the construction of new coal-fired plants.
That is not a prospect Mr Vesey relishes.

"My view is simple. I believe the market should depend on private investment and I think when the Government enters a market, it should do so very thoughtfully," he said.
"What's important is that people invest in the market and if it's private capital or even government capital, is that they choose the lowest cost and most efficient alternatives.
"We don't believe that coal is that."
The AGL boss also hinted that this week's Federal Government intervention in the gas market would be unlikely to keep energy prices lower for an extended period, arguing that new investment in electricity generation is what was needed.
AGL customers are facing price hikes of up to 20 per cent this year, due in part to the closure of the giant Hazelwood coal fired generator in March.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the Government's intervention in the gas market would immediately put downward pressure on prices.
Mr Vesey did not agree, saying that longer term price cuts could only be achieved through investment in new power plants — which will take a long time to develop.
That would reduce the wholesale price of power, which could then be passed on to the consumer.
"What we would hope is that good government policy and policy that drives bi-partisan support, we can see those wholesale prices and forward prices start to come down," he said.
The furore over the Finkel Report, and the divisions within the Federal Government over the future of coal, have clouded the report's recommendations.

"I think the Finkel Review has to get a very fair hearing," he said.
"It's important, broad, it covers a lot of bases. The Finkel Review isn't a cafeteria list.
"There's a policy architecture there and we're very hopeful people will give it a good hard look, have conversations and find a way to come out the other end supporting that blueprint."
Mr Vesey said that while it was healthy to debate these issues, both sides needed to focus on whose interests they were serving.
"Good healthy debate is very important and what's very important for both sides is that people shouldn't be positional," he said.
"They should look at the facts, they should have open and honest conversations and keep in mind who has to be the beneficiary at the end of the day, which is the consuming public."
Welfare organisations are seeing a surge in the number of clients who are struggling to pay their electricity bills, even before a price hike kicks in next month.
And it's not just those on welfare— they're seeing people who are working but still struggling to meet their payments.
At the Anglicare office in Penrith, on Sydney's western outskirts, Karina Honyi said she is seeing two to three people a day, just about their power bills.
"At the moment we're seeing the summer bills coming through," she told 7.30.
"Anything from $800 upwards is normal for a family. For a single person $450 to $500."

For some people, things have become so desperate that they are doing without essentials like food and medicine to try and make their bill payments.
"People are making decisions between medication and paying utilities," Ms Honyi said.
"Do I not take the medication I need to get better? Do I not buy food that I need?
"One meal a day is their food. It comes down to that for a lot of them."


Maree Wood is one of those people seeking help from Anglicare.
Her husband died seven years ago and she is caring for a bed-ridden daughter who had a stroke.
"She needs 24-hour, seven-days-a-week care. She can't do anything for herself," she told 7.30.
Ms Wood can't reduce her power usage without turning off the hospital equipment her daughter needs.
Her latest bill was $952 and she is already on a plan to pay it off.
"Seventy dollars a fortnight doesn't pay off a $900 bill, so I have to go and ask for help," she said.
"It just goes up and up and up, every time you look at it."
With power companies announcing that prices will rise a further 15 to 20 per cent from next month, the future is bleak for people like Ms Wood.
"There's nothing she can turn off or anything she can change," Ms Hunyi said of Ms Wood's plight.
"She's doing the best she can."
Future submarine jobs in Adelaide have been thrown into doubt in the wake of an apparent U-turn by French company DCNS on how much work will be carried out locally, senator Nick Xenophon says.
On Tuesday night, DCNS confirmed to a Senate committee it is not planning to directly involve Adelaide-based ASC in the construction of Australia's next fleet of submarines.
The company's interim chief executive, Brent Clark, told the committee DCNS had "no formal agreement" with ASC and that the company intends to "absorb" ASC workers.
"At this stage ... we would be looking at a transition of the ASC workforce to DCNS," he said.
"We would be assuming we would absorb them."
Last year, DCNS secured the $50 billion contract to build 12 new submarines for the Navy.
The same day the deal was announced, CEO Sean Costello — who has since quit — said "over 90 per cent" of the build would occur in Australia.
But last night, DCNS did not recommit to that target, telling the Senate committee it was too early to say whether it could be met.
"I don't want to give this committee a figure," Mr Clark said.

Senator Xenophon described the evidence as "disturbing" and said it could mean Australian jobs would be lost.
"The figures are now rubbery — they are talking about a 60 per cent figure," he said.
Senator Xenophon said the company's response also raised questions about long-term plans for deep-level maintenance of the existing Collins submarine fleet — work that is currently carried out in Adelaide.
He called on the Federal Government to clarify whether that would continue to be the case.
"Right now there are 1,400 South Australian-based jobs at stake in terms of the deep-level maintenance for the Collins-class submarines," he said.
"There doesn't appear to be any plan for that to continue with the future submarines, and that could mean 1,400 jobs being shipped over to Western Australia."
South Australia's Defence Industries Minister Martin Hamilton-Smith said DCNS appeared to be backing away from its promise to complete 90 per cent of the submarine build in Australia.
"The [interim chief executive] of DCNS is speaking a different language," Mr Hamilton-Smith said.
"The 90 per cent promise appears to have been jettisoned [and] that's very worrying."
"One would have hoped that the Federal Government would be writing into the contracts with DCNS that 90 per cent promise, or at least coming back to us and explaining why that can't be achieved, given that it was an ironclad promise."
Mr Hamilton-Smith said it was not just ASC, but workers in the supply chain, that stood to lose.
"If we're only going to get 60 per cent, or 50 per cent, or 40 per cent, that's a lot of jobs that will be going off overseas to France or elsewhere, and not [stay] in Australia," he said.
In a statement, ASC said it looked forward to working with prime contractors DCNS and Lockheed Martin, as well as the Federal Government.
"ASC anticipates growing its workforce significantly in coming years as it maintains the Collins-class submarine fleet as well as meets increased demand for future submarine capability in Australia," the statement said.
"ASC's maintenance of Collins-class submarines will be delivered through the In Service Support Contract, while current and future support for the future submarine program will be delivered under appropriate commercial agreements."
While there are now more solar panels in Australia than people, many apartment-dwellers have largely been locked out of this solar revolution by a minefield of red tape and potentially uninformed strata committees.
In the face of these challenges, Stucco, a small co-operative housing block in Sydney, embarked on a mission to take back the power.
Hopefully their experiences can serve as a guide to how other apartment-dwellers can more readily go solar.
From an energy perspective, Stucco was a typical apartment block: each of its eight units had its own connection to the grid and was free to choose its own retailer, but was severely impeded from choosing to supply itself with on-site renewable energy.
Things changed in late 2015 when the co-op was awarded an Innovation Grant from the City of Sydney with a view to becoming the first apartment block in Australia to be equipped with solar and batteries.
A central part of Stucco's plan was to share the locally produced renewable energy by converting the building into an "embedded network", whereby the building has a single grid connection and manages the metering and billing of units internally.
Such a conversion seemed like an ideal solution for solar on apartments, but turned into an ideological battle with the electricity regulator that took months and hundreds of hours of pro-bono legal support to resolve.

In this way the Stucco project grew to embody the struggle at the heart of the Australian electricity market: a battle between choice and control, between current regulations that mandate consumers to choose between incumbent retailers, and the public's aspirations for green self-sufficiency.
Embedded networks have been around for decades. Yet if the Australian Energy Regulator had its way, they would be banned as soon as possible.
The reason for this is that they inhibit consumers' choice of retailer: consumers are forced to buy their electricity from the building's embedded network management company, which may exploit its monopoly power.

Yet it doesn't have to be this way. At least one company in Germany allows apartment residents to buy power either from their preferred grid retailer or from the building's solar-powered embedded network. This business model relies on Germany's smart meter standards that ensure all market participants can access the data they require.
We currently find ourselves in a standoff. The regulator is waiting on companies to offer solar powered embedded networks that include retail competition, while companies are waiting on the regulator to create an accessible playing field that would make such services viable.
The recently released Finkel Report touches on this by recommending a "review of the regulation of individual power systems and microgrids".

In the absence of such a solution, Stucco made a unique agreement with the regulator: the co-op committed to cover fully the costs of installing a grid meter for any unit whose occupant wishes to exit the embedded network in the future.
Such a commitment was feasible because Stucco's residents, as co-op members, have direct input into the management of the network including controlling prices (that are mandated to be cheaper than any grid offer). But it is difficult to image regular strata committees accepting such liabilities.
Embedded networks are therefore not the best general solution for retrofitting solar on apartments, at least not under current regulations.
This is unfortunate because they represent the best utilisation of an apartment block's solar resource (Stucco's system provides more than 75 per cent of the building's electricity) and are therefore increasingly being adopted by developers.
The good news for residents of existing apartments is that there are easier routes to installing solar.
The even better news is that the cost of solar systems has plummeted (and continues to do so), while retail rates continue to skyrocket, so much so that body corporates are reporting rates of return of 15-20 per cent on their solar investments.

The recommended options for apartments are epitomised by the old adage "keep it simple". They fall into two categories: a single solar system to power the common area, or multiple smaller systems powering individual units. Which of these is best suited to a particular apartment depends primarily on the building's size (as a proxy for its energy demand).
For buildings with 1 square metre of sunny roof space per 2msq of floor space (typically blocks up three stories high), it is worth installing a solar system for each unit, as these will typically be well matched to unit's consumption.
Taller buildings (with less sunshine per apartment) are better off installing a single system for the common area, particularly if this contains power-hungry elements such as elevators or heating and cooling systems.
But here's the crux: no apartment can install solar without the political support of its strata committee. While this hurdle has historically tripped up many initiatives, increased public awareness has created a groundswell of support. Plus you may need fewer votes than you think.
To improve the chances of overcoming this barrier I have put together a solar-powered apartment pitch deck, available here.
While this article focuses on solar, it is important to remember that the first priority for any building should be to improve energy efficiency, by installing items such as LED lights, modern appliances, and insulation and draft proofing. For advice on these opportunities see the City of Sydney's Smart Green Apartments website and the Smart Blocks website.
Lastly, adding batteries to an apartment solar system creates extra challenges, for instance fire-prevention planning. But it allows for far greater energy independence and resilience, and a chance to join the future of distributed energy currently being enjoyed by so many of Australia's non-strata householders.

Bjorn Sturmberg is Associate Lecturer in Physics at Macquarie University
Originally published in The Conversation
Uber chief executive and co-founder Travis Kalanick has resigned from the troubled ride-booking service under pressure from investors.

"I love Uber more than anything in the world and at this difficult moment in my personal life I have accepted the investors' request to step aside so that Uber can go back to building rather than be distracted with another fight," Mr Kalanick said in a statement.
On June 13, Mr Kalanick went on indefinite leave amid criticism of his management style and following the death of his mother in a boating accident.
The resignation came after a series of costly missteps by Mr Kalanick and the fast-growing company that he helped found eight years ago.
Uber on Monday embarked on a 180-day program to change its image by allowing riders to give drivers tips through the Uber app, something the company had resisted under Mr Kalanick.
The San Francisco-based company is trying to reverse damage done to its reputation by revelations of sexual harassment in its offices, allegations of trade secrets theft and an investigation into efforts to mislead government regulators.
The Uber board said in a statement Mr Kalanick had "always put Uber first" and that his resignation would give the company "room to fully embrace this new chapter in Uber's history".

Board member Bill Gurley — who is also a partner at venture capital firm Benchmark, one of the five key investors named by the New York Times as having demanded Mr Kalanick's resignation — appeared to praise the embattled executive's achievements in a Twitter post, saying he had made a "lasting impact" on the world.
Mr Kalanick will remain on the Uber Technologies Inc board.
While building the world's biggest ride-booking service, Uber developed a reputation for ruthless tactics that have occasionally outraged government regulators, drivers, riders and its employees.

The company has been in turmoil as allegations of sexual harassment and questions over Mr Kalanick's treatment of his staff emerged in recent months.
Before going on leave, in early June, Mr Kalanick acknowledged he needed "to become a better leader".
"The ultimate responsibility, for where we've gotten and how we've gotten here rests on my shoulders," he said.
A damning report into Uber's "toxic" workplace culture found the company condoned sexual harassment, bullying and retaliation against those who reported problems.
Report author Eric Holder had recommended Mr Kalanick be released from some leadership responsibilities.
The scandals began in January when Uber was accused of capitalising on a on a protest by New York taxi drivers against President Donald Trump's immigration ban. Uber drivers picked up passengers from Kennedy Airport while cab drivers refused to do so.
In February, former employee Susan Fowler posted a blog detailing harassment she experienced during the year she spent at Uber, writing that she was propositioned by her manager on her first day with an engineering team.

She reported him to human resources, but was told he would get a lecture but no further punishment because he was a "high performer," she wrote.
Later in February, Mr Kalanick was caught on tape having an argument with an Uber driver over pay rates.
In the video, Mr Kalanick can be heard saying: "Some people don't like to take responsibility for their own shit."
"They blame everything in their life on somebody else. Good luck," he said.
The argument was captured on dash cam and prompted the then-chief executive to issue a "profound" apology to employees.
The company's hard-charging style has led to legal trouble. The US Justice Department is investigating Uber's past usage of phony software designed to thwart regulators.
Uber also is fighting allegations that it's relying on a key piece of technology stolen from Google spin-off Waymo to build self-driving cars.

ABC/wires
Four uranium mines approved by the Barnett government face a potential five-year deadline to get up and running, WA Premier Mark McGowan has warned.
The State Government yesterday reintroduced a uranium mining ban in WA, in line with an election commitment, but it cannot stop four projects that already had ministerial approvals from proceeding.
The Premier said those approvals, granted by the previous Liberal government, lasted for five years.
After that period expires the companies would have to go back and seek to renew their ministerial approvals, he said.
"I would hope they [the projects] don't go ahead," Mr McGowan said.
Asked if his Government would be likely to renew those approvals once they expired, the Premier said legal advice would be sought.
"Everyone knows our position is we are not very happy about these approvals, so the mining companies need to be aware that they have a potential deadline heading at them in five years from now," he said.
"Bear in mind five years is a long time, I mean they've already had eight years of getting a project approved and another five years to develop it, that's a pretty reasonable length of time for them to get a project up.
"If they can't do that then that's not our problem, that's their [problem]."
On Tuesday, Mines and Petroleum Minister Bill Johnston said if the companies sought to renew the approvals the Government would "have to make a fresh decision based on all of the issues at the time including the policy of the Government".
"Clearly the Labor Government has a policy opposed to uranium mining and if there's an opportunity for that policy to be implemented we will," he said.

The four proposed uranium mines are Cameco's Kintyre and Yeelirrie projects, Vimy Resources' Mulga Rock project and Toro Energy's Wiluna project.
Mining has yet to begin at any of them, due to a historic slump in the global uranium price.
The Premier said he was not happy with the decision the previous government had made, but it had no choice but to exempt the four projects already given approvals to protect WA taxpayers from massive compensation claims potentially for billions of dollars.
Mr McGowan said legal advice indicated the companies could sue the Government for all the money they had already spent on their projects plus potential loss of profits.
"This is the compromise we had to make," he said.
Mr McGowan said did not know how likely it was they would come to fruition.
"I know the uranium price is low and I know, according to the advice I've had, that demand is falling around the world so there's every chance they won't based on commercial reality," Mr McGowan said.
Rio Tinto director John Varley has resigned from the global miner's board after being charged by Britain's Serious Fraud Office.
The charges relate to a five-year investigation dating back to the Global Financial Crisis when Mr Varley was the chief executive of the investment big bank, Barclays.
UK-based Mr Varley was one of four former senior Barclays executives charged with fraud over an emergency fundraising deal with investors in Qatar during the height of the financial crisis in 2008.
Mr Varley was a senior independent director on Rio's board, having been appointed in 2011. He was also chair of the board's remuneration committee.
Rio Tinto issued a statement confirming Mr Varley "will step down with immediate effect".
"I am very grateful for John's outstanding contribution over the five or so years he has been on the board," Rio Tinto chair Jan du Plessis said in the statement.
Mr Varley was the chief executive officer at Barclays when the bank — along with several other big financiers such as Lloyds and the Royal Bank of Scotland — faced collapse and potential nationalisation.
Along with Mr Varley, the SFO also charged the ex-chairman of Barclay's Middle East investment banking arm Roger Jenkins, Tom Kalaris, a former CEO of the bank's wealth division and Richard Boath, a former European head of financial institutions.
The investigation focussed on deals associated with a 12 billion pound fundraising carried out in two tranches with Qatari investors in June and October in 2008.
The emergency recapitalisation allowed Barclays to dodge a government bail out, a fate that befell Lloyds and RBS.
Reuters is reporting authorities have examined whether payments from Barclays to Qatar at the same time as the recapitalisation, such as around 322 million pounds in "advisory services agreements", alongside the $US3 billion loan to the Gulf state, were honest and properly disclosed.
Mr Varley is facing two charges, which each carry maximum prison sentences of 10 years.
Ian Hall has enjoyed holidays and stints of work on Tasmania's west coast for the past two decades.
Last year he took the plunge, buying a home in Strahan and starting a business offering ATV tours of the nearby Henty Dunes.
But after a strong summer season, visitor numbers dropped and he's had to shut up shop for the winter and return to work in Western Australia's mining industry.
"Very happy with how our first season went, had hoped to trade through winter, but unfortunately we just don't quite have the clientele to sustain going through the winter period this season."
He intends to reopen in October.

Other businesses in Strahan have reported an unusually steep decrease in tourist numbers as temperatures have fallen.
The West Coast Wilderness Railway has had a record year, but other tourism businesses have not been so lucky.
Tia Rollins, manager of Strahan Beach Caravan Park, said the number of people staying there was half what it was last winter.
"This time last year even though it was winter we still had double the people in the park compared to what we do now," she said.
"We've locked off half of our cabins because they're not being used, so we've turned them all off and turned all the power off."
The West Coast Council's visitor centres have reported a 13 per cent drop in visitor number, compared with the same time last year.
There has been a 50 per cent drop in revenue at the centres.
A report to the June council meeting noted with concern that visitor numbers have slumped earlier than last year and several businesses were ceasing to operate over winter.

The co-owner of Queenstown Heritage Tours, Joy Chappell, believed most tourists were sticking to the state's south for the Dark Mofo winter festival in Hobart.
"I had two bookings last week, tourist bookings, and that was it," she said.
"Everyone was over at Dark Mofo, which is fantastic, but we really want them to come here afterwards. That would be great."
She said Hobart tourists need to be encouraged to head west in winter.
"To see the snow-capped mountain or the walks in the forest in winter, the forest absolutely comes alive. It's just mind-blowing over winter, it really comes alive."
Local and state tourism bodies are working on a plan to do just that.

The Cradle Coast Authority and other regional tourism associations want to promote a touring route between Hobart and the West Coast.

Cradle Coast Tourism executive chairman Rod Stendrup said it would try to repeat the success of the Great Eastern Drive.
"We are instigating the promotion of a drive journey route from Hobart to the West Coast that would highlight all of the attractions on the route," he said.
"Considering the impact the Government's support has had on the East Coast route, we are hoping the State Government will see the benefit of investing in a drive journey on the other side of the island."
Local operators have put forward other suggestions. Ian Hall said the region needs more inexpensive adventure tourism activities.
"We need to have more attractions there that are more family orientated, it's as simple as that. And we need to do it fast, and we need to do it well," he said.
Tia Rollins said the traditional winter slump creates a catch-22 for tourism businesses.
"'We expect it to be slower over winter, so a lot of things stop running, so if people do turn up, there's nothing for them to do on the West Coast," she said.
"We need to keep things going to keep people here."
The Tourism Industry Council said it's not unusual for regional tourism businesses to stop operating over winter, especially on the west coast.
TIC chief executive Luke Martin said a survey in April of tourism business sentiment showed an unusual divide on the west coast.
"About a third expected business to be up in winter, about a third expected business to be down and about a third expected it to be the same," he said.
"That's quite unusual, in other parts of the state we don't get that variation."
He was still confident the region's tourism industry will grow.
"I've never been more bullish about the future of the west coast tourism industry than I am now," he said.
"I think it's got a really bright few years ahead of it."
The Australian share market is set to open lower, following weak leads from US and European markets.
Although the US share market closed at new record highs on Monday, it is a totally different today.
This morning, Wall Street finished lower driven by a sharp fall in oil prices.

Oil hit a seven-month low, and it has smashed energy stocks, which were the weakest performers.
Nearly every sector — except for healthcare — posted losses, though energy stocks were the hardest hit.
Consumer discretionary stocks also fell after Amazon announced its entry into the fashion retail industry on Tuesday.
The online retailing giant launched a subscription-based box shopping service, Prime Wardrobe, which will let consumers try on clothes before they buy.
The tumbling oil price was a reaction to news that Nigeria and Libya have increased their production levels.
Libya's oil production rose more than 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 885,000 bpd.
Nigerian oil supply is also rising — and are set to reach 226,000 bpd in August, up from 164,000 bpd in July.
They are both members of OPEC, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Companies, but given their fragile nature are exempt from the cartel's deal to cut production levels.
In November, the 14 OPEC member countries — including Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq — agreed to curb production for six months in an effort to stabilise oil prices by containing its global oversupply.
This deal was extended by a further nine months in May, and they are aiming to cut oil production by 1.8 million barrels per day.
In a speech to London bankers, the day after Brexit negotiations began, Bank of England governor Mark Carney dashed any prospect that he would support an interest rate hike.
This is a contrast to the stance of the other three BoE policymakers, who last week voted to raise British interest rates from their record low of 0.25 per cent.
Mr Carney first wants to see how the economy coped with Brexit negotiations in coming months.
"Now is not yet the time to begin that adjustment," he said.
"In the coming months, I would like to see the extent to which weaker consumption growth is offset by other components of demand, whether wages begin to firm, and more generally, how the economy reacts to … the reality of Brexit negotiations."
The BoE has found itself in an awkward position.
Inflation has risen quickly after a drop in the value of the British pound — following the Brexit referendum one year ago — while signs of weakness in the economy are increasing, including a slowdown in wages growth.
The next BoE monetary policy meeting will be on August 3.
It is a quiet day on the local market with no key data to be released.
However, there could be a fair bit of selling action with the ASX SPI 200 index pointing to a 0.5 per cent fall on opening.
American Greg LeMond is an innovator and businessman who just happened to win the world's most famous bike race — three times.
LeMond won the Tour de France in 1986, 1989 and 1990 riding carbon fibre bikes, and pioneered the use of the strong, lightweight material in cycling.

But his latest venture with Victoria's Deakin University will develop new ways to dramatically cut the cost of carbon fibre production for a wide range of uses.
"I've been credited as being the most innovative cyclist in the sport, and I think that's totally an exaggeration, but what I have been is very curious," he said.
"I see opportunity where others ask, 'Why would you do that?' and I'm [saying], 'Well, why not?'."
In a $US44 million ($58 million) deal, LeMond Composites will license technology developed at Deakin's Geelong-based carbon fibre research centre, Carbon Nexus.
The new technology, developed by PhD student Maxime Maghe and Carbon Nexus general manager Steve Atkiss, can significantly lower the cost of producing carbon fibre, which had barely changed in the years since LeMond's Tour victories.
"Carbon fibre, up until recently, has been a dream material for automotive and for so many different industries but the cost has been prohibitive," LeMond said.
"They've been able to develop a manufacturing process that lowers the capital cost and allows us to scale the growth of it, because I think demand is going to be significant."
LeMond's start-up company struck an agreement with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee last year, with plans to produce millions of kilograms of low-cost industrial grade carbon fibre for the world market.
However, that venture hit a snag just months later when LeMond Composites fired its chief executive, Connie Jackson, who led the team developing the manufacturing process.

LeMond said those matters were settled in March and would not hinder the new deal with Deakin.
For its part, the university has stepped carefully in entering a contract to license its intellectual property to the US-based company.
"Geelong's been through a difficult time. Many people see the future of Geelong wrapped around the knowledge economy and what the university can do," Deakin vice chancellor Jane Den Hollander said.
"We have been extraordinarily careful on this basis.
"This new technology could revolutionise the advanced manufacturing sector locally, across Australia and around the globe, because it will make carbon fibre more affordable to produce, which will make it more accessible for consumers."
The deal could also pave the way for LeMond's company to build a carbon fibre manufacturing plant in Geelong to work in tandem with the Oak Ridge operation.
"We would plan on having multiple lines here," LeMond said.
The company plans to start production in September.

Federal Government backbencher George Christensen has crossed the floor and backed a Labor bill to stop penalty rates cuts, but it has been defeated.
The Opposition was trying to reverse a decision by the industrial umpire to reduce Sunday penalty rates.
Labor has attacked the Government for refusing to intervene after the Fair Work Commission recommended cuts to some penalty rates earlier this year.
Tuesday night's move was narrowly defeated 72-73, a loss Mr Christensen described as "sad".
"Just crossed floor and voted to save penalty rates from Fair Work Commission cuts and unions bargaining them away in EAs. Sad vote lost 73-72," Mr Christensen tweeted.

On Monday, Mr Christensen introduced a private members bill to effectively overturn the Fair Work Commission's recent ruling.
He told the ABC he supported Labor's amendment because it was "my private members bill pretty much word for word".
"I was happy to cast my vote for the amendment putting to rest all those claims my bill was a stunt," Mr Christensen said.
"My bill sought to protect penalty rates but also have a level playing field between small business and big business."
Last week, Mr Christensen came very close to voting with Labor to hold a new inquiry into the banks.
As time runs out for a renegotiation of Tasmania's gas supply contract, the Energy Minister is warning parties they need to reach an agreement or face arbitration.
Hydro Tasmania has a "take or pay" agreement with the Tasmanian Gas Pipeline to export across Bass Strait.
The contract will run out at the end of the year and, despite years of negotiations, a new agreement has not been reached.
Tasmania's major industrials, which employ thousands of people, are concerned about being hit with significant price rises.
"What we've said to the parties is we want a commercially-negotiated outcome as soon as possible, and we've emphasised the importance of the timeliness of that," Mr Groom said.
"Through the COAG process we have encouraged a reform which will introduce an arbitration mechanism. If necessary we will utilise that to achieve a fair outcome."
The arbitration mechanism is nationally legislated and comes into effect in September.
The Minister said the arbitration would be the next step if an outcome was not reached "pretty soon", but would not outline exactly when the trigger would be pulled.
Mr Groom was addressing a Committee for Economic Development of Australia (CEDA) business lunch in Hobart, discussing the transition of Australia's energy market.
In a keynote address, Mr Groom revealed the State Government had received a final report from the Energy Security Taskforce, set up in the wake of last year's prolonged energy crisis.
"I'm pleased to say I've very recently received the final report, the Government's currently considering those recommendations, we'll obviously have more to say about that," he said.
Ian Kay, from the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA), which is working with Hydro Tasmania to explore new pumped hydro schemes, told the gathering ARENA was committed to helping Hydro.
TasNetworks chairman Dan Norton, who has formerly been CEO of Hydro Tasmania and chairman of the National Electricity Market Management Company, raised the point that the differential between peak prices and off-peak prices influenced the economics of pumped hydro.
"It just seems to me that you can talk about the engineering aspects and look at the costs, but unless you've got some volatility in prices during the day you're not going to get the adequate driver to ensure pumped hydro works," he said.
Mr Kay said it depended on how the pumped hydro was owned.
"You could see an asset where pumped hydro is owned separately from any other generation, and you're absolutely right, in that case you've got to buying low and selling high."
The WA Government has delivered on an election commitment to ban uranium mining, but it will not stop four projects that already had approval from proceeding.
A ban on uranium mining takes effect from today, with the exception of the four projects.
They are Cameco's Kintyre and Yeelirrie projects, Vimy Resources' Mulga Rock project and Toro Energy's Wiluna project.
Toro's Wiluna project was the first to be approved in 2012, while Mulga Rock received approval last year.
Cameco's Yeelirrie mine was initially knocked back by the Environmental Protection Authority due to the threat it posed to microscopic stygofauna present at the site.
But those concerns were dismissed by former state development minister Bill Marmion, who overruled the EPA's decision and approved the mine in January.
It prompted anti-uranium activists to accuse the former government of rushing projects through without proper scrutiny, to ensure they would meet Labor's election deadline.

Mines and Petroleum Minister Bill Johnston said he was not able to discuss the legal advice the state received but said there could have been major payouts if the state tried to stop the projects.
"Effectively we were told there may be no limit to the amount of compensation that is potentially payable," Mr Johnston said.
"There's certainly potentially large risks to the state had we tried to set aside the existing approvals."
Mining has yet to begin at any of the four approved projects, due to a historic slump in the global uranium price.
Mr Johnston said Cameco had already spent more than $1 billion on its two projects to date.
But he said he was unsure if any of the projects were close to becoming commercially viable.
He said the state ministerial approvals were valid for five years, and if those lapsed the Government would consider a "fresh decision" if the companies sought to renew that approval.
WA Chamber of Minerals and Energy natural resource manager Kane Moyle said while the future of those four projects was now clarified, the chamber hoped uranium mining could gain bipartisan support.
"Ideally we would prefer that the WA Labor Government fully reserved its policy of not allowing any uranium mines," he said.
"These four projects have undergone an extensive environmental approval process over many years, a lot of work has gone into that, a lot of investment and they deserve the right to proceed.
"The development of a uranium industry in WA will no doubt broaden the state's resource export base, contribute future growth to the WA economy through royalties and provide future jobs and opportunities as these projects move through the construction and then mining phase."
The Liberals lifted WA's ban on uranium mining after Colin Barnett won the 2008 election.
WA Opposition mines and petroleum spokesman Sean L'Estrange welcomed the clarity but criticised the blanket ban saying it created confusion.
"We've got an industry where on the one hand you've got four projects that can proceed and on the other hand anybody else who wants to invest in that particular sector and grow jobs in Western Australia can't do so."
The Association of Mining & Exploration Companies Inc (AMEC) echoed the CME's position.
"Each new mine will bring jobs, revenue, royalties and social benefits to Western Australia," AMEC chief executive Simon Bennison said.
Major developments across NSW, including shopping centres and entertainment complexes, are undergoing urgent fire safety checks to investigate whether they contain flammable aluminium cladding, similar to the kind thought to have been used in the tragic London Grenfell tower fire.
Senior fire engineers and even major product importers are backing growing calls for an urgent audit of the product's use in Australia.
Investigators have not identified what caused the blaze in London — but some experts have blamed the flammable cladding on the building's exterior.
The owners of the Lidcombe Centre and Chatswood Concourse entertainment venue are conducting tests to determine the flammability of aluminium cladding on their building.
"Willoughby Council has previously taken advice, and is investigating and taking measures to further confirm the compliance of the material used on the external facade of The Concourse building," a spokesperson said.

"The Concourse has comprehensive emergency safety measures in place, including sprinklers throughout the building … and very early smoke detection apparatus."
Vicinity Centres, the manager of the Lidcombe Centre said: "While we do not have cause for concern … we have engaged an independent fire services expert who is currently assessing whether the panelling meets best practice requirements, including conducting further testing as required."

The widespread and diverse use of the cladding in Australia highlights the great difficulty authorities will have trying to audit the extent of the product's installation.

But the work must be done urgently according to former NSW Fire and Rescue chief engineer Ben Hughes-Brown.
Mr Hughes-Brown is now a fire engineer at Ignis Solutions and believes the number of buildings using the cladding is extensive — but just how much is out there is not clear.
"Until the governments or building owners undertake auditing, we can't really tell," he said.
"It's not exclusively coming from China — we see products imported from Germany, Turkey, France and a variety of other international locations."

The difference in flammability is in the type of core that is used.
"There are four basic types of aluminium cladding — the first being most flammable is polyethylene (PE)," Mr Hughes-Brown said.
"The core material is a critical aspect of flammability.
"[The PE core] will sustain itself quite well just burning ... [whereas the fire retardant] will see a minor impact but the fire doesn't sustain itself for long."
The ABC spoke to Australia's second largest importer of aluminium cladding, Fairview Architectural, which said it fully supported and would cooperate with any audit.
The NSW Government is this week looking at setting up an interdepartmental taskforce to prevent risky building products from being used — and the State Opposition wants an audit.
Fairview Architectural said while it had records of which contractors it had supplied to, it was not aware in every case where those products had ended up.
"The past is what it is," Fairview's chief executive Andrew Gillies said.
"There needs to be an audit of buildings in the past — going forward there needs to be clarity in supply."
Fairview Architectural is still selling a polyethylene core product - but it is not being "actively marketed".
Mr Gillies reiterated that the product could be used in a safe way — such as in low-rise developments.
Rival importer Halifax Vogel said it was also happy to open its books, with chief executive Bruce Rayment telling the ABC the company had "absolutely nothing to hide".
But he did not expect much of his product would be found in New South Wales high-rise apartments.
"I can't think of a high-rise residential [development] that has top to bottom [polyethylene] cladding," he said.
"There might be some small stuff around doorways and that sort of thing."
The Perth Mint is considering a ban on all clothing containing metal, including underwire bras, in a bid to boost security.
The mint processes high value precious metal products within its refining and manufacturing facilities.
It recently undertook a security review after a series of breaches, including an incident several months ago in which a contractor working at the refinery allegedly stole a gold bar worth more than $50,000.
A spokeswoman for the Perth Mint said the review highlighted the need to enforce metal-free clothing for any staff, contractors or visitors entering high-security zones. It is a move the organisation is considering.
"One area currently being explored with staff is the use of metal-free clothing for transiting through security checkpoints," the spokeswoman said.
"This will eliminate any question that staff may have precious metal on their person as they exit high security areas.
"The general public visiting the mint will not be affected."
Another option for staff being considered is to change out of their regular clothes at the end of the day.
They could then be scanned separately by a more sophisticated machine which can distinguish between precious metals and zips, buttons and underwire.
"Some of the pieces of precious metal are very, very small so there is a possibility for people to be able to put a small piece of metal underneath a bra strap or behind a metal button," human resources manager Jane King said.
Ms King said there were concerns scanners that could detect the metals while staff were wearing their clothes, such as those used at some airports, could impact their health.
While a ban on particular items of clothing is yet to be imposed, the Australian Manufacturing Workers' Union said it had been in contact with a number of female staff who have been told by their employer they may have to wear work-issued undergarments.
AMWU state secretary Steve McCartney said the union met with the company last week to raise concerns that such a rule unfairly targeted women and would be an unreasonable imposition.
"We think it's a disgrace," Mr McCartney said.
"It's without any real science behind it and without any real discussion.
"They've got machinery at airports that people can walk through that can tell you what you've had for breakfast.
"I'm pretty sure they could find the technology that excludes women from having to go through this embarrassment.
"We think it's an attack on women's rights and an attack on women."
The Perth Mint said new security technology was being considered, including body scanning equipment.
House price growth has started to cool, while the construction boom in the Melbourne and Brisbane apartment market has taken its toll with prices now starting to fall, according to data released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
The ABS Residential Property Price Indexes for the March quarter show attached dwelling prices in Melbourne fell 0.7 per cent in the first three months of the year.
While apartment prices in Brisbane edged up in the quarter, on an annualised basis the market deteriorated, with the Attached Dwelling Price Index slipping further, down 0.4 per cent from the same time last year.
The ABS noted the more pronounced falls in Melbourne's apartment market were in the middle-to-upper segments — $535,000 to $700,000 — which had seen the most growth in the 2016 December quarter.
While the quarterly figures are sometimes seen as a bit dated compared to monthly private surveys, they do provide deeper insights in corners of the property market across the nation.
House Price Index
March quarter 2017
Percentage change QoQ
Apartment (Attached Dwelling) Index
March quarter 2017
Percentage change QoQ
The first-quarter figures fail to capture important developments beyond March, including tougher lending regulations imposed — particularly on investors — by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, and the subsequent increases in mortgage rates imposed by the banks.

JP Morgan's Henry St John said the data suggests there is an "unhealthy underbelly" in the Australian property market.
"The glut of apartment supply due to hit the market over the coming year, particularly in Melbourne and Brisbane, is starting to weigh on attached dwelling prices,"  Mr St John said.
"Melbourne, Brisbane and Sydney have seen a rapid increase in the number of apartment dwellings under construction since 2015, and we expect that apartment prices in these capital cities will continue to face downside pressure as supply continues to hit the market."
Mr St John said given investor lending was the key driver of the upswing in Sydney and Melbourne prices, capital city house price growth will continue to moderate this year unless owner-occupier buying picks up.
"This should start to become apparent in the second-quarter house price index, and the extent of the deceleration is likely to be highly dependent on the rate at which housing market turnover slows," he said.
The decline is not surprising given economists have been warning a glut in apartments was looming, driven by the record pace of construction over the past couple of years.
Overall, the ABS house price index grew at 2.2 per cent over the quarter, or 10.2 per cent for the year.
Sydney dwelling prices grew by 3 per cent for the quarter and 14.4 for the year.
Mr St John said the noticeable slowdown in investor lending was likely to soon become a drag on prices.
"The private measures of house price growth suggest some moderation is already taking place, although it is too early to assess the full impact that these measures are having, he said.

The minutes from the Reserve Bank's June board meeting suggests house prices and household debt are still very much a concern for the board.
Central to the board's discussion was the use of tighter regulation of the banks in property lending by APRA to rein in household debt
"They (the RBA board) also discussed the role that prudential supervision can play in promoting financial stability," the minutes noted.
"In view of this, members acknowledged the importance of a strong relationship between the Bank and other regulators, particularly APRA."
Citi's Paul Brennan said it will take around six months before firm conclusions can be made about the impact of APRA's tougher stance.
"That said, there are some early positive signs on house prices and investor lending," he said.
The Federal Government is taking more steps to try to keep gas prices down, announcing it will follow through on its plan to restrict gas exports in a bid to counter domestic shortages causing high prices in Australia.
Resources Minister Matt Canavan said 65,000 people work in industries where gas is at least 15 per cent of the cost of doing business.
"We're acting to protect the jobs, because gas for these businesses is a staple and the bread and butter of the businesses," Senator Canavan said.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull would not be specific about how much impact the export controls would have on prices.

But he said wholesale prices had fallen since he first floated the idea earlier this year.
"How they translate into retail prices or prices for industrial users is another thing, but on the wholesale market, on the spot market, you've seen prices come down," Mr Turnbull said.
He argued it would not be acceptable for Australia to become the largest exporter of LNG in the world and have a shortage of gas in its east coast domestic market.
In a separate bid to keep prices down, Mr Turnbull announced he wants to stop energy networks being able to appeal against the regulator's rulings about what they can charge.
The Prime Minister has also asked the energy market operator (AEMO) to determine the exact impact of the expected closure of more power stations on energy prices over the next decade.
He said it should then provide advice about the best way to make sure a reliable and affordable power supply is available.
Mr Turnbull also did not rule out the Federal Government investing in or building a new coal-fired power station if AEMO said it would be required.
The $11.3 billion merger of Australia's two dominant wagering and gaming businesses, Tabcorp and Tatts, has been approved by the Australian Competition Tribunal (ACT).

The decision handed down by ACT president Justice John Middleton placed only one condition on the merger, which was first floated in October last year.
Justice Middleton ordered Tabcorp must sell its pokies monitoring Odyssey Gaming business in Queensland.
Tabcorp had previously announced it would sell the Odyssey business to Australian Federal Hotels if the merger was approved.
Tabcorp took the unusual step of heading straight to an ACT determination after the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission flagged a number of concerns with the deal, including the market power of Tabcorp's broadcast arm.
"The tribunal is satisfied that the proposed merger is likely to result in substantial public benefits," Justice Middleton said in a statement accompanying the decision.
"[As] the public detriments identified by the ACCC and the interveners are unlikely to either arise or are not of significance, the tribunal is satisfied in all the circumstances that the proposed merger would result, or would be likely to result, in such a benefit to the public that the acquisition should be allowed to occur," he said.
The merged companies will control about 90 per cent of Australia's totaliser betting and will generate revenues in excess of $5 billion.
Tabcorp forecast the deal would release about $130 million a year in synergies by eliminating overlapping IT platforms, merging head offices and cutting jobs.
Tabcorp's chairwoman, Paula Dwyer, welcomed the decision saying it was an important step to creating a diversified gambling entertainment group capable of competing on a global stage.
"[It] is expected to deliver significant value for both sets of shareholders and material benefits to other key stakeholders, including Australian racing industries, business partners, employees, customers and governments," she said.
"The combination will bring together two great Australian businesses, well positioned to invest, innovate and compete in a global gambling entertainment marketplace."
The merger deal is expected to be put to both sets of shareholders for approval in August.
The ACCC declined to comment until the reasons for the ACT's decision are made public later this week.
"[However, the ACCC] notes that the net public benefit test the Tribunal was required to apply is different to the substantial lessening of competition test the ACCC undertakes in its informal merger clearance process," an ACCC spokeswoman said in a brief statement.
Tatts jumped 3.6 per cent to $4.32 on the news, while the response was more muted for Tabcorp, up 0.4 per cent to $4.65 at the end of the day's trade.
The US stock market closed higher this morning as technology stocks rallied.
Tech stocks rose more than 1 per cent, resulting in the Nasdaq surging 1.4 per cent and new record closes for the Dow Jones and S&P 500 indexes.

This is a reversal from last week's situation when tech stocks were heavily sold off due to investors' concerns that they may be overvalued.
Also boosting global investor sentiment was the result of the French parliamentary election.
President Emmanuel Macron secured a landslide majority in the National Assembly, giving him a strong legislative mandate for his pro-business reforms.
Mr Macron's centrist Republic on the Move (REM) party and its centre-right ally MoDem won 350 out of 577 lower house seats in Sunday's election.
Although it was lower than expected, Mr Macron's majority has swept aside France's main traditional parties.
Prior to Mr Macron winning the presidency, power alternated between the Socialist and Republicans over several decades.
Following this news, Paris's CAC 40 Index experienced its biggest rise in over six weeks.
European shares also surged, with London's FTSE 100 gaining 0.8 per cent to 7,524, and Frankfurt's DAX surging 1.1 per cent to 12,889.
The London share market performed well even as Brexit negotiations officially began on Monday, one year after the UK voted to leave the European Union.
During this meeting, both the British and EU negotiators stressed goodwill but also the huge complexity and tight deadline.
"We've laid solid foundations for future discussions and an ambitious but achievable timetable," Britain's Brexit secretary David Davis said.
Mr Davis added that he was "encouraged" by the first talks, and hopeful of a "strong and special partnership" with the EU which continues after Britain's departure.
However, the Chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier emphasised that little had been agreed but an initial calendar and a structure for negotiations.
Mr Barnier said the talks will first focus on the "uncertainties caused by Brexit".
Some of the key priorities expected to include the cash settlement that the EU expects the UK to pay, the status of expats, and the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland — which will continue to be an EU member.
The Australian dollar has weakened against the British pound, with $1 buying 59.65 British pence.
Today is a quiet day in terms of local economic data releases.
The Reserve Bank will release the minutes for its June meeting, in which interest rates were predictably held at the record low of 1.5 per cent.
Hundreds of Dick Smith shareholders have launched a class action alleging they were deceived about the financial state of the company before it collapsed in 2016.

Compensation lawyers Bannister Law have sought leave in the Supreme Court of New South Wales to file the class action.
"We actually really do think that the shareholders were deceived and were not told the correct information that they needed to be able to have to make an informed decision," lawyer Diane Chapman said.
"The shareholders were treated very badly — they had a right to correct information to make an informed decision on the Australian share market.
"There's a lot of mums and dads who have actually lost personally a lot of money."
She said nearly 1,000 people had registered to take part.
"We have a range, from people who lost $500 to people who lost well over a million dollars," Ms Chapman said.
Dick Smith went into receivership in January 2016 after directors were unable to secure adequate funding from the company's banks to support the business.
Ms Chapman said the class action alleged the company should have informed the market a lot earlier it had financial problems.
"People were caught out because everything happened so quickly and it was because the reporting hadn't actually been conducted in the way that should have been," she said.
"That would have actually put shareholders on notice that there were problems with the company and it would have actually given a fairer market share price which investors could have relied on."

Ms Chapman said many shareholders invested after reading Dick Smith's annual report in 2015, which forecast profits of $45 million to $48 million.
She said that report did not disclose potential problems and the company in fact paid investors a dividend.
A couple of months later, in October 2015, Dick Smith downgraded its profits forecast, saying it expected them to be about $40 million.
In a statement to the ASX, the company blamed that on disappointing sales figures for that month.

This was the point when retiree Gerry Pauley decided to start buying Dick Smith shares, eventually investing $890,000.
"The forecast was a $40 million profit and then two months later it goes into receivership," he said.
By then Mr Pauley had invested $890,000. He lost the lot.
He said that had not affected his lifestyle, but it was frustrating.
"Since 1995, I've averaged a 19 per cent profit every year on my total amount of money, and that year, without Dick Smith, I would have made about $600,000," he said.
Mr Pauley's Dick Smith holdings represented about 18 per cent of his portfolio.
Not all claimants lost as big a single sum as Mr Pauley, but some smaller investors also took big hits.

Airline baggage handler Paul Handley lost 24 to 30 per cent of his portfolio.
"That $3,800 was a month's wages for me. I can think of better things to do with $3,800 — holidays or school fees or just putting some food on the table," he said.
He said he was unlikely to continue buying shares after also losing money when One.Tel and Babcock & Brown collapsed.
"It always seems to be the case that your mum and dad investors, it's us, that suffer the most in these sort of things you know. They suck us in," he said.
Ms Chapman alleged Dick Smith Holdings knew it was having cash flow and inventory problems much earlier than their profit downgrade of October 2015.
"We are alleging that it's quite obvious," she said.
The class action alleges that as early as February 2015 the company should have disclosed to the market it was incorrectly accounting for financial incentives known as "rebates".
These are cash payments from suppliers such as offering Dick Smith Holdings a discount for buying a certain amount of stock.
Public hearings into the collapse of Dick Smith have heard that those payments were being accounted for as profits before Dick Smith Holdings had sold the goods they related to.
The class action alleges that this did not comply with Australian accounting standards and that it might have resulted in "misleading or deceptive" financial statements published in February and August 2015.
Global ratings agency Moody's has downgraded the big four banks and eight other institutions over fears about the housing market.
Moody's cut ANZ, CBA, NAB and Westpac by one notch from Aa3 to Aa2.
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank and Newcastle Permanent Building Society went from A3 to A2 while Heritage Bank, Members Equity, QT Mutual, Teachers Mutual, Victoria Teachers Mutual and Credit Union went from A3 to Baa1.
Moody's action comes a month after rival agency S&P Global downgraded almost all Australian banks over fears of "a sharp correction in property prices".
Moody's said while it did not expect a sharp downturn in housing as its key scenario, it could not ignore the risk that high levels of debt and the rapid credit expansion could pose down the track.
"Whilst mortgage affordability for most borrowers remains good at current interest rates, the reduction in the savings rate, the rise in household leverage and the rising prevalence of interest-only and investment loans are all indicators of rising risks," the Moody's statement said.
The agency worries that while Australians have been taking on record amounts of debt, wages have not increased, while underemployment has.
It also did not like "the rising prevalence of interest-only and investment loans" which it believed were indicators of rising risks.
Banks are carrying an arsenal of cash, as required now by regulators, in preparedness for any downturn in the economy or problems in the housing market but Moody's indicates it is not sure whether it will be enough.
"The resilience of household balance sheets and, consequently, bank portfolios to a serious economic downturn has not been tested at these levels of private-sector indebtedness," it said.
Moody's has also rerated Australia's economic profile from "very strong" to "strong", driven by concerns over the household sector, and the country's debt-to-GDP level was also a factor.
The Federal Government's plan to sting online shoppers with the GST looks set to come to fruition 12 months later than it would have liked.

The Coalition and Labor have agreed to a plan to apply the GST to imported products worth less than $1,000 from July 1, 2018.
But they have rejected a proposal from the Greens to use the new revenue to cover the cost of removing the GST from sanitary products, including tampons.
The measure was included in the 2016-17 Budget, and forecast to bring in $300 million in revenue over three years.
Online shoppers searching for bargains from overseas are a primary target, with many arguing the explosion of online shopping was not foreseen when the GST was first developed.
It went before the Senate today, where Labor senator Katy Gallagher argued the initial July 1, 2017 timeline was not feasible.
"It's just inconceivable that the arrangements are in place [for the change to be made] in the next 10 days," she said.
"I don't think anyone is pretending to believe that that is actually the case."

Labor agreed with the idea in principle, but had questions around the Government's model for collecting the tax.
Shadow treasurer Chris Bowen said their amendment would require the Productivity Commission to review the Government's plans, including the "vendor model".
He said he was partly motivated by the concerns expressed by retailers like eBay.
"Whether they adopt [the Productivity Commission's recommendations] or not is a matter for them," he said.
"But I think if the Productivity Commission adopts or recommends a better way of doing it, it's really incumbent on the Government to take that up."
While Finance Minister Mathias Cormann argued against Labor's changes in the Senate, the ABC understands the amended bill will pass the Lower House.
Harvey Norman chairman Gerry Harvey has lobbied for the GST to be extended to overseas purchases for many years.
He argued today's change, delaying implementation for a year, was the result of clever lobbying by overseas internet retailers.
"They've been hijacked," he said.
"The unfortunate thing is that [politicians are] susceptible to this kind of activity, which doesn't say a lot for their mental capacity."
Mr Harvey said all politicians he had spoken to on the matter agreed the GST should be applied to overseas purchasers.
But he said the 12-month delay would only allow them to be further lobbied by the online retailers.
"In that time, these same people that have been lobbying them will be hard at work lobbying them even further, to put it off again," he said.
"What I would say to them is 'listen — you've just been hijacked for one year, don't let it happen again'."
The Greens unsuccessfully sought to use the bill to remove the GST from sanitary items, arguing the new revenue could cover the amount that would be lost.
Greens senator Larissa Waters said the change would still leave the states, who are the direct beneficiaries of GST revenue, better off.

"It is a sexist tax that applies only to women," she said.
"And when you look at the fact that condoms and lubricant are GST-free, and yet sanitary items are not GST-free, women are being taxed for their biology."
The Greens' amendment failed, opposed by both the major parties.
Senator Cormann argued the proposal does not have the unanimous support of the states and territories, while Senator Gallagher said while Labor supported the idea in principle, they did not believe this was the way to do it.
Up to 13,000 Polaris youth quad bikes could be affected by asbestos which has prompted a nationwide recall.
Testing carried out in the US found asbestos in brake pads, brake shoes, washers and gaskets in 12 models of Polaris youth quad bikes manufactured between 2001 and 2017.
The models are advertised as suited for ages six and up.

Polaris Australia country manager Alan Collins said third party testing had identified traces of asbestos, but said the risk was very low for owners and operators.
"The research and very extensive testing that we've had completed ... has come back that there were no asbestos fibres picked up in the air through the use of those vehicles," he said.
"It's an extremely low probability that those fibres could've been in the air and could've damaged the operator of the vehicle or anybody nearby to them.
"We've had similar testing also completed in relation to the technicians who may have serviced or repaired these vehicles over time, or also farmers that may do on farm self-servicing ... and the testing will continue but the testing that's been completed has come back as an extremely low hazard."
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) acting chair Delia Rickard said risk of exposure to asbestos was higher for people who did home mechanical work on quad bikes, or people that repaired and serviced quad bikes.
"The recalled quad bikes should only be repaired by qualified personnel using appropriate safety procedures," she said.
"Any materials containing asbestos must be disposed of at licensed facilities."
Mr Collins said they were investigating the root cause of the asbestos contamination and how it went unnoticed for so long.
"We source components from various parts of the globe," he said.
"We are working very diligently at the moment to understand how this has happened and ... to ensure there can be no repeats of it in future."
Mr Collins said dealers were notified of the recall on Monday afternoon and users could expect to receive information in the coming days and weeks.
"You can continue to ride the machine," he said.
"But we are instructing our dealers not to sell the products and we're also asking our dealers not to service the products.
"In the near future will release some very specific instructions to our dealers about how they can go about removing the affected part safely."
Mr Collins said the repair costs would be covered under warranty, while "discretionary" compensation for travel costs of owners in remote areas would be available on a "case by case" basis.
A revised bid is being made by British consortium GFG Alliance for the troubled steel business Arrium.
A GFC Alliance spokesman said the consortium remained passionate about the opportunity the South Australian steelworks, at Whyalla, offered and would keep pursuing discussions.
The Arrium steelworks went into voluntary administration last year, with debts of more than $4 billion.
The administrator for Arrium, KordaMentha, said it was dealing directly with the preferred bid by a Korean consortium headed by Newlake Alliance Management and JB Asset Management.
At a Whyalla Council meeting on Monday night, KordaMentha official Sebastian Hams said it had been a thorough process to select the preferred bidder.
A final sale of the Whyalla operations would be subject to approval by Arrium's committee of creditors and the Foreign Investment Review Board.
Arrium has a South Australian workforce of about 1,600.
The Korean bidder said it wanted to use a steelmaking technology known as Finex, which replaced the use of conventional blast furnaces.
Australia's consumer watchdog is calling for volunteers to sign up to a broadband speed-testing program in an effort to expose the 'real world' speeds provided to households and businesses connecting to the NBN.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) has resisted opposition from some internet service providers and is rolling out its speed test program to about 2,000 homes in the first year.
Deputy chairwoman Delia Rickard said the watchdog wants more transparency in a sector worth more than $4 billion annually.
"At the moment we're seeing lots of finger-pointing, everyone saying, 'It's not my fault, it's their fault'," Ms Rickard said.
"I think what this study will do will be to help us to identify where the problems are so that they can then be fixed."
Ms Rickard said she hoped the speed test program would drive improvements in broadband speeds and how they are advertised to consumers.
"Some [internet service providers] are reasonably comfortable, others are less comfortable about it," she said.
"But what we know from looking at overseas experience is that doing something like this and making this information publicly available for consumers has increased performance-based competition."
The ACCC has secured $7 million in federal funding for the first four years of the program, which will at first recruit 2,000 households before increasing to 4,000 in the years ahead.
The program will report on speeds, looking for any slowdown at peak times and comparing services between different providers and technologies.
Rachel Thomas, policy officer at the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network, urged people to sign up to the program.
"We're hoping that it'll provide some measurable and comparable statistics so the consumers can see which provider matches their needs," Ms Thomas said.

"We get consumers calling us as well and saying that they're not able to use certain services during certain hours.
"[They're saying] their children can't complete their homework, businesses are unable to upload within a satisfactory time."
John Stanton from the Communications Alliance, which represents the telecommunications industry, said he was concerned the sample size would not be big enough to provide any meaningful guide to consumers.
"If [the speed test program] is only looking at four big ISPs [internet service providers] and their performance, then whoever comes out looking good among those measurements will tend to draw customers away from smaller providers," Mr Stanton said.
He said service providers already had information from NBN about user speeds, but were not able to release it publicly.
"There are indicative numbers that come from NBN Co., but it's not presently possible for those to be released by the ISPs — it's part of commercial agreements," he said.
An NBN spokesperson said it supported, "any effects to help consumers better understand broadband speeds and performance".
The ACCC expects to release the first information from the study towards the end of this year.
The Nakagin Capsule Hotel in Tokyo opened in 1972, combining notions of futuristic existence with Japanese economic efficiency.
The idea of sleeping in a pod originally captured people's imagination in the 1960s. It brought to mind space travel and settling on distant planets.

Arguably, there's no better example of podmania than the Nakagin Capsule Hotel, which rises up on a city street like a bizarre stack of boxes.
It hinted at a future where buildings would all be made of plug-in components, and yet there's a distinct hint of the past.
Tokyo is famous for its lack of space and the Japanese are well-known for their ability to create simple but inventive living areas filled with clever storage.
To some, the capsule hotel seemed quite sensible. Each 4-by-2.5-metre capsule held a mattress, with a wall kitted out with various nooks and even a sound system.

A large round window gave the room a particular space-age quality. A bathroom module moulded in one piece completed the capsule, which was then bolted to one of two central cores.
It was an attempt to provide cheap crash pads for the city workers, or salarymen, of the financial district — who would otherwise have to trek home to the outer suburbs after a late night.
It was also a fabulous exercise in prefabrication.
The idea of prefabrication had been a dream of many architects since the early 1900s, who wanted to reduce everything to its basics. They thought that buildings could be created like cars on a production line.

This machine-made aesthetic came to a head in the 1960s, with furniture designers creating injection moulded chairs.
Verner Panton designed an upholstered lounging module called the Living Tower, which looks rather like one of those carpeted play towers people buy for cats.
Film makers adored the Nakagin Capsule Hotel for its futuristic look, but while it caught the world's attention when it opened in 1972, it didn't exactly catch on.
Many were appalled by the idea of reducing humanity to faceless items to be stored in pods.

Its architect, Kisho Kurokawa, went on to design streamlined but more conventional-looking buildings, including two in Australia, with the Central Plaza One in Brisbane and the Melbourne Central building both displaying a sharp style with no hint of the capsule in evidence.
As for the Nakagin Capsule Hotel, ageing structural issues and its valuable location have placed the building under threat of demolition several times.
It is a wonder simply because it made such a virtue of its prefabrication, although it's quite normal today for hotels and office buildings to be constructed from prefabricated modules.
Yet it remains an important icon of Japanese modernity and invention. And it shows, as the best architecture always will, that there are many different ways of thinking outside the box. Even with boxes.
Online shoppers have lost more than $110,000 in a scam targeting Queenslanders and more people are expected to fall prey, the State Crime Command says.
The command's Financial and Cyber Crime group is investigating 126 reports of people losing money on about 27 websites that advertise heavily discounted items including barbecues, outboard motors, air conditioners and gym equipment.
The fake websites since taken down by police include: airconditionerexperts.com.au, appliancediscounters.com.au, appliancespecialists.com.au, barbecuesales.com.au, bbqmaster.com.au, bbqdeals.com.au, gymsource.com.au, expertfitness.com.au and bbqmasters.com.au.
Victims were encouraged to pay cash for the goods that were never delivered.
Acting Detective Inspector Peter Robb said officers were looking for two people.
"We believe a man and a woman who may be able to assist us with our investigation are currently in Brisbane," he said.
"If you have any information relating to the people, we'd ask you to call Policelink, [and] if you have fallen victim to this type of scam or any other online scam, to report the matter."
Acting Detective Inspector Robb said police were working with hosting agencies to take down the websites, but believed there may be more websites and even more victims.
"We would also encourage the public to stay vigilant when shopping online and remember if it's too good to be true then it probably is," he said.
"By shopping online at sites that you know are trusted and using established payment systems that offer buyer protection, you can protect yourself from falling victim to these scams."
A Senate committee will investigate the use of cladding material on Australian buildings in the wake of the deadly Grenfell tower fire.
At least 58 people were killed in the London tower block when a fire tore through it last week.
Investigators have not identified what caused the blaze — but some experts have blamed the flammable cladding on the building's exterior.
Two British Government ministers said on the weekend the material appeared to be banned for use in the UK.
The Senate economics committee is already looking into building products, and it will now use a public hearing to zero in on the use of cladding material in Australia.
The committee chair, Labor senator Chris Ketter, said the Grenfell tragedy was a "timely reminder" that the Parliament had a responsibility to stop a similar disaster in Australia.
He said the main risk was that some construction companies used cladding products which were not meant to be used for high-rise buildings.
"I'm very concerned by the lack of progress in this area. We do have a patchwork of regulations in this country ... so there's always a possibility that something slips through the cracks," Senator Ketter said.
"I'm hoping we can have an inquiry to get to the bottom of this."

Senator Ketter compared the Grenfell blaze to the fire which consumed the Lacrosse apartment building in Melbourne in 2014.

Firefighters also blamed flammable cladding on that building, and the State Government ordered it to be removed earlier this year.
"What you've got here is perhaps an example of the regulations not being tight enough and enforcement not being adequate," Senator Ketter said.
He suggested the committee could also recommend the Government hit builders who use the wrong materials with higher fines.
Independent senator Nick Xenophon said his party would back the hearing.
"This is an issue that requires absolute bipartisan support. We need to have a national audit of buildings around the country, this was not done after the Lacrosse fire," he said.
"The London tragedy is more than just a wake-up call. There are now no excuses for any government at a local, state or federal level not to do everything possible to ensure the safety of occupants and visitors to buildings."
Engineering experts say it is difficult to gauge exactly how many buildings in Australia might have inflammable cladding installed in an unsafe way.
"It's a material that's quite commonly used," Victorian president of Engineers Australia Chris Stoltz said.
"I wouldn't be surprised if there are scores of buildings in each capital city and maybe in some of the regional cities as well."
Mr Stoltz said the Senate committee hearing would be a "useful exercise" but warned the Government not to focus too narrowly on the type of materials used.
"The application of the cladding is just as important as the cladding itself," he said.
Mr Stoltz said the Grenfell building was engulfed so quickly because the design of the cladding gave the fire a path both up and around the building.
In contrast, the cladding on the Lacrosse building only offered the fire a vertical path up the building.
"Ultimately it's not all about the cladding. It's about making sure that our buildings are constructed in accordance with their design," he said.
"It could be there are other reasons a building doesn't conform [with the code], it's not just about fire.
"And I think we need to broaden our horizons a little and look at systemic issues about ensuring buildings are compliant."
Industry Minister Arthur Sinodinos told the Senate that Australian regulators were in touch with their UK counterparts about the Grenfell disaster.
He said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull would write to premiers and chief ministers, urging them to make sure new buildings meet Australia's safety standards.
"We implore all states and territories to enforce compliance with the national construction code," Senator Sinodinos said.
A Liberal senator is threatening to vote against the Government's school funding plan, which would make it harder for the Government to get its bill through the Senate.
West Australian Liberal Chris Back told AM he would cross the floor unless Education Minister Simon Birmingham agreed to some changes, including a 12-month delay on implementation.
Senator Back has had a longstanding interest in education, especially the Catholic sector.
He said his main concern was that proposed changes to the distribution of school funding between different educational systems were not fair.
Senator Back retires from the Senate at the end of this week, which would make crossing the floor one of his final acts.
But he said he expected his concerns could be fixed.
"I'm confident that we can resolve it," he said.

Senator Birmingham said there were "technical issues" being discussed with Senator Back and, "I am sure that in the end he will support what is a very significant additional investment into Catholic education across the country".
If Senator Back does refuse to vote for the plan, the Government would need 11 extra votes to get the plan through.
The nine Greens senators have not ruled out voting for Senator Birmingham's plan but are still negotiating on the Government's plan to spend an extra $18.6 billion on schools by the end of the decade.
Greens education spokeswoman Sarah Hanson-Young said the Coalition was offering to bring the timeline forward so more money would be spent sooner.
"It's encouraging of course that they've been prepared to make improvements," she said.
"My partyroom is going to have consider all of the details of this, how it works, work out whether it does deliver for public schools."

As well as seeing the package brought forward, the Greens and the Nick Xenophon Team (NXT) want an independent watchdog set up to oversee how school funding is being allocated.
The body would, for example, make sure the Catholic system was distributing its pool of money between its schools fairly and based on need.
The Greens and the NXT also want the Commonwealth to force the states to better meet their school funding responsibilities.
NXT education spokeswoman Rebekha Sharkie said she understood why the Government wanted a quick outcome.
"All parents, including myself, need to know how to budget for next year and parents want to see investment and reform in schools," she said.
"Parents overwhelmingly say to me they like the idea of it being sector blind, so whether a school has a Catholic sign on the gate or a Lutheran sign on that gate, it's about the children within and the parents capacity to support that."
It is understood Department of Education modelling shows the Catholic school sector could be $700 million worse off over the next four years under the Government's plan than if the system stayed the same.
The Coalition argued it was redistributing the funding pool based on need.
Government data shows some top tier Catholic schools have been receiving nearly three times the taxpayer funding they are entitled to under the Gillard government's Gonksi school funding model.
But the National Catholic Education Commission's executive director and former Labor MP Christian Zahra argued the Coalition's changes would be anything but fair.
"There are a lot of low-fee Catholic schools which will have funding cut from them under the Minister's model," he said.
When asked whether that would only happen if the Catholic system did not redistribute money from its wealthy schools to its poorer ones, Mr Zahra said, "No, I think that's a misleading thing to say, there are many schools, right around Australia which are identified as being low-fee systemic Catholic schools, which under the Minister's model are going to have their funding decreased next year".
The Government said overall its plan would see a 3.5 per cent funding increase for each Catholic school student.
Debate on its legislation is set down for Wednesday.
Are you a first home-buyer still holding out hope that astronomical house prices might fall in Sydney?

Confidential NSW Treasury reports, obtained by the ABC through a Government Information (Public Access) request, say that despite years of rising prices, the local market may be headed for a "soft landing", and not the crash some frustrated home hunters might be secretly hoping for.
A 2016-17 half-yearly revenue forecast paints a picture of a once-in-a-generation boom saying that while Sydney's raging market cooled at the end of 2016, price growth remains "above expectations".
The reports also spell out something obvious to most millennials — record low interest rates and low wage growth are not helping young buyers get into home ownership.
The authors note Sydney's high prices are remaining "stronger than expected" despite weaker turnover of properties in the last quarter of 2016, and falling demand in other parts of the country.
Treasury calculations show that in 2016 average mortgage payments in Sydney were almost $51,000 a year — double that of Brisbane on $29,000.

The reports suggest we live in an unusual economic cycle and the current period of high prices is "significantly longer" than previous booms.
Demand is driven up by the trifecta of strong population growth, high investor activity and construction undersupply.
Despite a planning push to fast-track development, there is still a housing shortage with supply hovering at around 100,000 dwellings per year.
The report contradicts Premier Gladys Berejiklian, who said her policy of increasing supply would alone help affordability and slow Sydney's runaway prices.
So have tougher new lending rules stopped cashed-up investors out-bidding Sydney's first-home buyers?

A February 2017 Treasury Forecast said while APRA's attempt to clamp-down on investment lending was initially effective — lowering investor borrowing by more than 10 per cent in mid-2015 — the impact did not last long.
The authors noted that "affordability is not expected to improve" this year, pointing to the investors dominating 2016 residential finance approvals (56 per cent) at the expense of owner occupiers (44 per cent).
Recent Commonwealth Treasury figures revealed foreigners snapped up $72 billion in Aussie real estate last financial year, up from $60 billion in 2014-2015.
This might be a reason why the State Government has recently raised surcharges and taxes on overseas investors.
It may also have local buyers hoping for further reforms, such as reducing or even eliminating transfer duties, in Tuesday's state budget.
But the documents suggest further reforms wold be difficult.

The Treasury analysis makes clear that high numbers of investors are underpinning Sydney's construction industry, and in turn creating jobs in the NSW economy.
The revenue flows from cashed-up investors paying transfer duties are also helping fill the state's coffers.
The documents predict high levels of transfer duty receipts in 2017 as population growth, lack of supply and investor demand continue.
They also forecast $8.8 billion in stamp duty, boosted by revenues from large transactions like the lease of Ausgrid.
Transfer duty is far and away the biggest contributor to the NSW tax-take and its reform is complex and difficult.
While the documents suggest revenue growth is healthy, there are niggling warnings about some dark clouds on the horizon.
The authors warn that if house prices start to fall, yield-chasing investors are likely to hot-foot it out of the market.
Higher interest rates or increasing unemployment figures are cited as triggers of instability, prompting a collapse in residential property investment — and much state revenue with it.
Taps sold at supermarket chain Aldi may be contaminating drinking water with lead at up 15 times the maximum allowable level, tests by Queensland Health Forensic and Scientific Services show.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) has warned people to avoid drinking or cooking with water from the Easy Home spiral spring mixer tap, advertised in Aldi's June 10 catalogue, "until more is known about the health risks that may be posed".
It is believed the tap may be installed in thousands of Australian homes, including 3,000 units reportedly sold in Queensland.
The Queensland Building and Construction Commission (QBCC) said it commissioned the tests on the tap during an investigation into a separate issue.
"Our initial test results show that there is a cause for concern, and that the tapware may cause lead contamination of drinking water," QBCC commissioner Brett Bassett said.
QBCC said further testing was needed and echoed the ACCC's warning against consuming water from the taps.
It said all drainage work, including removing the tapware, should only be completed by a licensed plumber.
While the ACCC has not recalled the product, a spokesperson from Aldi Australia said it would remove any product from sale if it was identified as a risk to customers.
"ALDI is liaising with the responsible authorities and our supplier to investigate the matter with utmost urgency," a spokesperson said.
The spokesperson said the tapware was independently tested and confirmed to comply with Australian standards before it hit the shelves.
"If at any stage test results confirm that chemical parameters do not meet regulatory requirements, ALDI will take appropriate action," the spokesperson said.
Consumers who have purchased the taps but have not had them installed can seek a refund from Aldi, the ACCC said.
The United States will meet or exceed its Paris Agreement emissions targets despite an increasingly isolated President Donald Trump withdrawing from the accord, former vice-president Al Gore says.
In Australia to promote his latest film, An Inconvenient Sequel, the climate campaigner and one-time presidential candidate said Mr Trump was out of step domestically and internationally.
"The country as a whole is going to meet the commitments of the Paris Agreement, regardless of what Donald Trump says or does," Mr Gore told 7.30.
"He has isolated himself. He's not irrelevant, I won't pretend that, but it's encouraging to me that the country is moving forward without him."
Every G20 country, except the United States, recently signed a declaration to make binding the Paris climate agreement to eventually cut net emissions to zero.
Mr Gore argued it showed the rush towards renewables was unstoppable.
"There is a distinction between Donald Trump and the United States of America, especially on the climate issue," he said.
"The country as a whole is moving forward, the progress cannot be stopped.
"The economic realities have changed. The price of electricity from solar and wind and now the price declines in battery storage and the efficiency improvements of all kinds, these are economic realities that are really kicking in in a powerful way.
"We're going to win this. The remaining question though is whether we will win it in time.
"The Great Barrier Reef is in risk, sea level rises with storm surges are already affecting houses in parts of Sydney.
"The droughts that come with increasing regularity in many parts of the world are causing great damage."

Disputing the argument renewable energy is less reliable and more expensive than conventional power sources, Mr Gore praised South Australia's recently struck deal to build a battery storage facility with Tesla.
"The electricity from both solar and wind continues to come down every single year. And the new historic development is battery storage is coming down significantly in cost," Mr Gore said.
"And this historic announcement that South Australia is leading the entire world with the installation of the largest battery in the world, it will be the first of many to come."
While Australian politicians have argued coal must remain part of the energy mix — to ensure low prices and because it plays a central role in developing countries like India — Mr Gore said it was on the way out.
"The future of coal does not look bright, in spite of what the advocates would want, because of the new market realities," he said.
"It's similar to what happened with mobile telephones, with computer chips, with flat screen TVs: the cost keeps coming down rapidly, even as the quality improves rapidly.
"Solar and wind and batteries are the future and we see it all over the world."
Dreamworld is still struggling to regain visitors nearly nine months after a fatal accident at the Gold Coast theme park, new figures showed.
Compared to the year before, visitor numbers were down more than 30.5 per cent for June, which included two weeks' school holidays.
It is a slight improvement on May's figures, which showed a 35 per cent drop.
Guests have been dramatically lower for Ardent Leisure since four people died when a raft flipped on the Thunder Rive Rapids ride last October.
In its aftermath, ticket sales had reduced a whopping 51 per cent.
Dreamworld's acting chief executive Paul Callander is buoyed by the latest figures.

"Month by month we are welcoming more visitors back to Dreamworld," he said.
"This school holiday period has been encouraging."
That enthusiasm is echoed by Gold Coast Tourism.
"The theme parks are part of the DNA of the Gold Coast and it's very important that they're firing for the local economy," chief executive Martin Winter said.

"We are very confident for the future and very pleased to see the progress they're making over time since the tragedy."
Dawn McDougall had no hesitation in bringing her two young daughters to the theme park on Monday for a Wiggles concert.
"Absolutely not — we've been a few times over the holidays and we will be back again before our passes finish in a year," she said.
The Seven Network has ramped up its attack on the integrity of Amber Harrison despite the former executive assistant's decision to walk away from her battle with the media giant.
Ms Harrison - the ex-lover of Seven boss Tim Worner - did not appear in the Supreme Court on Monday morning and was unrepresented.
Seven is, meanwhile, seeking orders for her to pay its costs and remain silent about matters relating to the network.
Justice John Sackar ordered Ms Harrison's former counsel Shane Westcott to discuss with her an opportunity to address the court.
"I want her to be given every opportunity," Justice Sackar said.
Ms Harrison has since confirmed, over Twitter, that she will address the court at 10:00am tomorrow over the phone.
But Justice Sackar said Ms Harrison would be heard only be heard in regards to orders she objects to, and will be not be allowed to make broader statements relating to the case.
Dr Andrew Bell SC, Seven's barrister, described Ms Harrison as "a person with huge malice, enormous arrogance and vindictiveness" who breached confidentiality agreements in a "dangerous and reckless" manner.
Dr Bell also cited emails from Ms Harrison where she said she "wanted to kill him (Mr Worner)" and that she was "planning on revenge".
"I was pissed off and I needed to level the playing field," according to an email read to the court by Dr Bell.

Ms Harrison could also face potentially massive legal costs from Seven amid allegations that she continued to brief journalists in breach of a confidentiality agreement.
The court was told that according to subpoenaed records from Ms Harrison's phone records, 135 calls were made to journalists with 38 calls running more than ten minutes.
Dr Bell said that Ms Harrison had "boasted about her power to control the media and to destroy people's reputations".
The history of Ms Harrison's dispute with Seven is messy to say the least.
In a high-profile social media campaign against Seven, Ms Harrison released documents and details about her affair with Mr Worner.
This resulted in a company-funded probe which ultimately cleared him, and found the former executive assistant's claims to be unsubstantiated.
The network took legal action against Ms Harrison alleging she had breached confidentiality provisions of a settlement agreement.
Dr Bell previously told the court that Ms Harrison received $428,418 in exchange for her not disparaging the network, and keeping all documents confidential.
In early-February, Seven won an interim injunction to stop Ms Harrison from releasing confidential Seven documents to the public.
However, both sides were criticised by the previous judge, Justice Robert McDougall.
"Seven was using, and is working to continue using, the injunction to vilify Ms Harrison at a time when she (Ms Harrison) could not respond," Justice McDougall said.
However, he added: "Ms Harrison made it clear that she is reckless or indifferent to the collateral damage of others" and, unless restrained, she was likely to continue releasing Seven documents that would breach her agreement with the company.
The matter was listed for a four-day hearing at the Supreme Court, beginning on Monday.
However, Ms Harrison decided to abandon her feud with Seven last Friday.
The hearing, which could potentially run for three days, is continuing.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan
Imagine trading energy with your family or best friends or next-door neighbour.

That's what Fred and Eglantine Oualid are hoping to do as soon as next year.
They don't have a solar system but are strong believers in renewable energy.
"We like to choose where the energy comes from and who gets our money for it," said Fred Oualid.
He finds dealing with the big energy providers frustrating and is unsure where his energy comes from.
"There's a lack of transparency for sure. A lack of trust as well and misleading information."
Fred and Eglantine have signed up to trial and eventually use Local Volts, an energy trading system which doesn't require anything more than a mobile phone or computer.
"It's connecting people together that have the same ideas. I think that's a really important factor," added Eglantine Oualid.
Local Volts founder Jitendra Tomar describes his system as the eBay of energy trading.
His company will take care of the regulatory requirements, the licences and the bureaucracy.
Households join up for a flat annual fee and trade energy, whether or not they have solar systems or the capacity to store electricity.
Buyers will be able to get their energy from anywhere - the big energy retailers or their next door neighbour who might have a solar system with batteries and excess energy to sell.
"There's no transparency at the moment," Mr Tomar said.
"The big power companies simply set a price and consumers have no way of knowing the real cost.
"Local Volts will increase competition and consumers will see the real cost of that energy."
Mr Tomar also said trading can be tailored to be as simple or complicated as individual consumers need.
The search for alternatives has been stepped up by news households are facing massive increases in electricity prices.
"We've seen a very quick rapid surge in solar system installations in response to media reports," said Tristan Edis, the director of policy and analysis at Green Energy Markets.

Giant German energy company Sonnen is a much bigger player hoping to exploit consumer anger and dissatisfaction.
Sonnen has partnered with South Australian energy company Zen to take on the big energy retailers.
"The rest of the world's going in a direction of consumers playing a much bigger role, demand management playing a much bigger role and this way we can end up with a cheaper grid," said Zen Energy's chairman Ross Garnaut.
"At the moment, Australia has a very expensive grid. It's hard to find another one in the developed world anywhere near as expensive for the amount of electricity we put through it."
A Sonnen battery will cost around $8,000 but, once installed, members of the "Sonnen community" will be charged between $30 and $50 a month for all their energy needs.
In exchange, the company will have the right to sell any excess power into the grid.
Tristan Edis said Sonnen wants a share of a lucrative market dominated by the established energy retailers.
Sonnen can use the battery at times when it is being underutilised.
It enables Sonnen to participate in selling some of the capacity in that battery to either an electricity network or to the wholesale electricity market where they can exploit large premiums, while the householder effectively does not even notice.

Richard Martin's giant 10 kilowatt solar system makes him almost immune to the price hikes.
He is his own power plant, with plenty of excess energy to sell, but the big energy retailers are paying him a pittance for it.
"We're in the situation now where we're generating power, it's just not recognised as a valuable commodity," he bemoaned.
Richard Martin plans to add batteries to his system, store the power for himself, and leave the grid.
But that will prevent him from joining the push for individual households to be part of the energy trading market, free from the dictates of the established power companies.
The prospect that households could become more active energy traders in the not-too-distant future changes the idea of what it means to be independent. It makes the national grid even more important.
"The only requirement we have is that you have to be on the electricity grid," explained Mr Tomar.
"Where you're living you must be connected, you cannot be an isolated system."
David Martin at Power Ledger is already testing a system giving households more control.
His software enables consumers in groups of apartments or commercial properties to sell excess energy from their solar systems to their neighbours.
"Consumers really don't have to do anything at all. They log into the system, they pre-purchase their electricity, and then the system does all of the trading for them," he said.

The establishment of energy communities will help to reduce pressure on the grid at peak times, and prices should reflect that.
But it will be easier said than done, according to Ross Garnaut.
"Then we'll actually bring the cost of the grid down. Now that won't be easy, that's hard policy," he argued.
"Very strong vested interests will have to be confronted. [Chief scientist Alan] Finkel mentioned in his report that it's going to be important to look at writing down the sunk cost in the grid."
Regulators have guaranteed grid operators their revenue - so when demand falls regulators have sanctioned price increases.
"They're almost like a casino, they always get their money back irrespective of how stupid their decisions are," said Tristin Edis.
That will have to change.
Energy retailers making big profits on reselling energy fed into the grid from households will also take a big hit as trading platforms unleash competition and improve transparency.
As electricity prices skyrocket, motivated consumers are cheering on the disruptors.
"You don't have much power as an individual. Certainly the larger companies have a lot more power than we do," said Richard Martin.
The established players will not give up their profitable privileged positions without a fight.
The question is, will the fight mean lower costs for households or politicians pushing back against consumer-led change.
A bold plan by Tesla's Elon Musk to build the world's biggest lithium ion battery in South Australia has thrown doubt on a project being planned by renewable energy company Zen Energy.
It is now reconsidering a proposal for a $100 million solar plant with 100 megawatts of battery storage at Port Augusta at the top of Spencer Gulf.
Zen chairman Ross Garnaut expressed fears there would not be enough room in the market for both ventures.
"That's the assessment we have to make over the next few weeks," he said.
"We've got a lot of work to do over the next few weeks to judge whether there's room for our battery alongside the Tesla battery [and] whether we can make a commercial case for that."
Asked if Zen might shelve its proposal, he said: "That may happen, yes."

The Port Augusta solar plant and storage was promising hundreds of jobs during construction.
The Federal Government had already committed some funding but the South Australian Government had not put in anything at this stage.
Earlier this year, the Lyon Group announced plans to build a solar farm and battery storage facility in South Australia's Riverland, which will be even bigger than Tesla's, with a projected storage capacity of 400 megawatt hours (MWh) compared to Tesla's 129 MWh.
A spokesperson said land had been acquired for the project and transmission lines run to the site.
Port Augusta Mayor Sam Johnson said he was pleased about the Tesla battery storage proposal near Jamestown, but it had brought some disappointment for the Port Augusta community.
"But maybe this is just another sign that the State Government will actually come through and support solar-thermal," he said.
"The upper Spencer Gulf region, whether it's us, or Whyalla or Port Pirie, we certainly believe that our future is well embedded in the energy sector, particularly when you're looking at renewable-based technology."

Mr Johnson hopes there will eventually be room in the market for both the Jamestown and Port Augusta projects, particularly as his regional city has been fighting to retain jobs.
"I'd like to think that projects like Zen Energy's can still go ahead to fill that [employment] gap in which we've lost in the last 18 months," he said.
The Mayor said another company, Pangea, was seeking approval to build a battery storage system in the region as well, and there remained optimism that would proceed.
Other renewable energy ventures in the planning in northern SA include a hybrid solar, wind and diesel power station for Coober Pedy and a solar storage plant at Roxby Downs.
SA Premier Jay Weatherill would not be drawn on the future for the Zen venture and, in an ABC Adelaide interview, he said he could give no guarantee the Tesla battery storage would reduce the state's high electricity prices.

"I'm not going to guarantee anything about what a private sector market does in what is essentially a series of private sector decisions," he said.
"But what I can say is that this will put downward pressure on prices."
He conceded that had the Jamestown battery storage been in place last year, it would not prevented the statewide blackout in September.
But he said the storage capacity could have helped when the state faced other load shedding incidents at times of high electricity demand.
Half of the top 20 suburbs in Australia that are under mortgage stress are in Victoria, which is a "serious problem", according to a report by the Grattan Institute.

The report's data, which comes from the last two censuses, found Wollert, which is about 27 kilometres north of Melbourne's CBD, has the highest percentage of houses under mortgage stress in the nation, with 23 per cent.
Roxburgh Park is a close second at 20.9 per cent.
Mortgage stress is defined as any household that spends 30 per cent or more of its income on loan repayments.
"Mortgage stress is particularly acute on the suburban fringes of our major cities, especially Victoria," Grattan Institute Fellow Brendan Coates said.
"Places like Roxburgh Park in the north, Cranbourne West, Burnside Heights and so on, have quite significant mortgage stress.
"I do think this is a serious problem."
But the report goes on the say that across the nation, many households could find themselves in trouble if the economic environment changes even slightly.
Even though house prices are at record high in Australia, low interest rates have off-set the cost of mortgage repayments.
Even a small change in interest rates, Mr Coates said, could have mammoth effects on that equation for many.
"Our research suggests that if interest rates rose just 2 per cent from where they are now, the mortgage burden on the average house would be higher than what it was in 1989, when we saw 17 per cent interest rates," he said.
"That's because the principal is so much larger that people are handing over to purchase the property.

That leaves those living in the top 20 stressed suburbs in a particularly precarious position, Mr Coates said.
That is because they tend to be new home buyers, who bought recently and in areas outside of the centre.
"It is those people who have been priced out of the city," Mr Coates said.
"So, if something does happen it is hard. You are spending more time commuting and your employment may be less secure because if you lose your job, there may not be as many jobs around where you are."
Nasser and Noura Hojok have lived in Wollert for six years and spend about 40 per cent of their income on paying the mortgage.

They were shocked to hear so many people in their suburb were technically classed as being under stress.
"They all [our neighbours] seem pretty stress-free," said Mr Hojok, who is an automation engineer.
"Maybe it is because interest rates are quite low at the moment. If they went up it might be a different issue."
For this family, a two percentage point increase in interest rates would mean they would have to rethink whether or not Noura could continue to stay at home to look after their children.
"A 2 per cent increase is a big difference. It would mean we would struggle," Mr Hojok said.
"We are getting by at the moment, but [if there was] a 2 per cent increase, we'd have to think about it."
Flanked by Commonwealth and Queensland politicians, the giant Indian conglomerate Adani last month announced that its board had given final investment approval to its controversial mega-mine in North Queensland, and declared the "official start" of the Carmichael coal mining project.
But what does that mean in practice? For the moment, it seems, not much.
The ABC has obtained the plan of operations for the Carmichael coal mine project submitted to the Queensland Government last month.
It covers just six months and involves next to nothing: just re-establishing signage at the site, recommissioning an existing temporary camp and installing some additional demountable buildings.
"The plan of operations will be amended in due course to include all early works related to commencement of construction activities for the mine and related infrastructure works," it says.
The lack of a substantive plan for development of the mine "is a huge embarrassment for the Adani cheer squad including the Prime Minister, the Premier of Queensland and [Minister for Resources and Northern Australia] Matt Canavan, who have bent over backwards to get this project over the line," said Rick Humphries, co-ordinator of the mine rehabilitation campaign for the Lock the Gate Alliance — a group established by farmers to fight "inappropriate" coal and gas mining.
"It only really commits Adani to maintaining the existing temporary camp and looking after the signs and roads," he said.
"It raises serious doubts about the project's financial viability.
"I mean after all the support that has been thrown at the project including royalty deferments, giving it unlimited access to scarce groundwater and offering a billion-dollar-or-two loan, Adani still won't commit."

Ron Watson, Adani's spokesman in Australia, has maintained the company is fully committed to the project and hopes to have finance confirmed within six months.
"We are working towards financial close for the mining venture this calendar year," he said.
"We expect to complete the pre-construction work well before then.
"The Final Investment Decision last month has provided sufficient funding from the parent to achieve this.
"That work involves surveying, soil testing and design work for the mine, the airstrip, mining camp, access roads, and the rail link," Mr Watson told the ABC.
He said to expect "significant announcements in coming weeks and months" including contracts for mining equipment and a port for FIFO (fly in, fly out) workers.
Mr Humphries is sceptical.
He used to work in the mining industry as a mine closure specialist and is an expert on mine rehabilitation costs.
Alone, he said, the money Adani would have to stump up to the State Government to cover potential mine rehabilitation costs would be enormous.
"A recent report that we commissioned looked into what the likely cost of that financial assurance is going to be for the first five years of the mine's development — it is about the $1.5 billion mark," he said.
"I suspect because of their weak balance sheet and the state of the coal market they will have difficulty finding a financial institution that is prepare to stump up, or underwrite, that amount of liability."

Adani's mine project, if it were to proceed to full scale, would be the largest-ever coal mining development in Australia and the biggest export coal project in the world, involving a series of open cut mines and underground pit with a capacity of 60 million tonnes a year.
Adani would also have to build an additional port at the Abbot Point Coal Terminal — which it owns — to accommodate output from the mine, though there has been speculation that Adani intends to scale down the mining venture to less than half the initial planned capacity.
Despite the question marks about Adani's ability to finance the venture there are clear incentives for the Adani family to make the project happen.
An "overarching royalty deed" at the project will see $2 from each tonne of coal mined beyond the first 400,000 tonnes each year go a private company ultimately owned by an Adani family entity registered in the Cayman Islands.
This could potentially mean that hundreds of millions, or billions of dollars, from the venture could flow to the Adani family rather than to shareholders of the publicly-listed company that owns the Carmichael mine.
The ABC has also been told that the response of Adani's billionaire chairman Gautam Adani to years of activism and opposition to the mine in Australia is a determination to see the project realised.
If you've been thinking there are a lot of empty shops in Perth's CBD, you are correct.
The closure of Topshop a week ago has left a sizeable hole on Murray Street and dozens of other stores are sitting empty.
Property Council WA executive director Lino Iacomella said the current vacancy rate was around 16 per cent.
"Retailers in the city are struggling at the moment," Mr Iacomella said.
"That's largely because their biggest consumer market is the office workers and at the moment we've got high vacancies in the office market."
He said the shopfront vacancy rate has not been this high for about 20 years.
"That's about the last time we had a lot of vacancies in the office market so there's a close parallel there," he said.
Lease Equity managing director Jim Tsagalis said a lot of the vacancies could be attributed to upcoming developments.

"Forest Chase is about to have a $100-million makeover, with more than 35 new retailers being introduced into the city," he said.
"Raine Square at the moment is [being redeveloped], it'll have another 30-odd retailers go in."
"Plaza Arcade, 10 to 15 retailers are being dislodged to make way for Uniqlo."
Mr Tsagalis added Perth's main pedestrian precinct had more than 100 different owners, unlike Melbourne and Sydney's prime malls which were controlled by less than five main owners.
"That means it's more coordinated. Perth is moving in that direction... and in time, I think we'll find it'll be more coordinated but in the short term it's different owners, different agendas and that means different time paths," he said.
Mr Tsagalis was optimistic about the opportunities brought by new hotel rooms, direct Perth to London flights and Perth Stadium.
But he said retailers still faced challenges.
"Clearly, Perth is suffering but more broadly, we also have internet [shopping], international retailers coming into Perth and indeed Australia, so there's real change. There's a revolution," he said.
Mandurah residents Richard and Carol came in the city for Sunday shopping. They said the empty stores were not a deterrent.
"You can't sort of stop progress, they're only trying to make it better for the future," Carol said.
"A day out really is what it's about," Richard said.

Ruby was shopping with a friend and said she was happy with the city retail experience.
"The shops are really good, there's lots of new stuff out, and lots of sales on," she said.
Mr Iacomella said he expected Perth's retail vacancy rate had peaked, as office vacancies had begun to recover.
However, he said it was important not to rely on upcoming developments to solve Perth's retail vacancies.
"The challenge is to broaden out the shopping market, to increase the market from beyond just office workers but also attract people from all around Perth and then of course the tourist market," he said.
Mr Iacomella said about half the current retail vacancies could be attributed to redevelopments, while the remainder was due to the economic situation.
The City of Perth said the fact international investors had committed $350 million to the city's retail precincts in coming years showed confidence amid a subdued economy.
Long-time Melbourne street artists are worried the rebel, anti-establishment movement has sold out.
"It is not art anymore. It's become what I call 'Brandalism'," said artist Adrian Doyle.
Street art, which traces its roots to New York in the 1970s, is often a form of protest or social commentary.
When it came to Melbourne, it was also a way for young people to rebel against commercialisation, capitalism and governments.
Works by locals such as Rone, Ha-Ha and Meek are displayed next to artists like Banksy and Blek le Rat who are known for their biting social commentary.

Doyle grew up in Frankston and has had his work displayed nationally and internationally, but said today's street art has lost its sting to corporations entering the scene.
"When I was a little punk, as street art started, it was very political," he said.
"9/11 had just happened, so [George W] Bush was everywhere, Osama [bin Laden] was everywhere.
"What happened to that content? That content has disappeared.
"Now it is just a competition of who has the prettiest pictures."
Around Melbourne, the biggest and prettiest pictures are giant street art-style murals, funded by corporations and often promoting shoes, drinks, medicines and movies.

Danish Chan is the national planning director of whiteGREY, an advertising firm with clients such as Volvo, Bakers Delight and Victoria Racing Club.
He said street artists get hired for a range of product campaigns.

"The amazing thing about street art is that it speaks to pop culture," he said from the company's Melbourne office.
"It is the kind of work people want to watch and see and spend time with, instead of the ugly, yelling at you advertising."
Mr Chan said he understands why artists can feel torn about what is happening, but overall the two sides can work together.
"Artists have always had commissions and patrons. Whether is it galleries, or churches or brands," he said.
"As long as the artist is proud of the things they are making, the brand they are involved with, it doesn't compromise on their ideals."


Mr Chan said a recent campaign his company was involved in called The Unmissables was the perfect example of how corporations and artists could work together.
Under the program, people can donate a wall or cover the purchase of paint for a piece of street art depicting a missing person.

"How better to get people to pay attention to missing people throughout the city then by using the city as the canvas," he said.
"We've found an amazing response to using street art to overcome the cliché of the black and white missing person's photo."
Doyle said he also understood artists' need to earn a living and the desire to work with marketers and advertising firms.
"Yeah man, I totally sell out my urban art, but I keep my art different," he said.
"If some dude wants to have their corporate logo, I'm happy to do it, but with a fair few rules."

Doyle wants Melbourne to create more space and time for established and developing street artists to experiment and get their message heard, even if it upsets people, politicians or corporations.
"I liked it when it was political," he said.
He said the thriving street art environment that Melbourne has created that gets international attention is in jeopardy if things do not change.
"Melbourne has become the best at urban art … we are awesome at this, and we need to look after it," he said.
"It is important to let artists be artists."
After what seemed a pretty volatile week, equity markets ended going pretty much nowhere.
Solid jobs numbers on Friday pulled Wall Street up to an overall marginal gain over the week. Europe was a bit stronger too. The ASX lost ground, although looks likely to open higher on Monday.

Sentiment was largely driven by the view that central banks were confident enough now to tighten up the loosest monetary policy the world has seen since the epic debasement of the denarius by a succession of Roman emperors a couple of millennia ago.
The RBA is playing a bit behind the beat and was still firmly "neutral" last week.
A tightening should normally be embraced as a sign various central banks believe economies have enough momentum to grow out of their post-GFC funk.
But these are far from normal times and markets have become addicted to the easy money splashing about.
US jobs growth supports the theory the extraordinary close-to-zero rates and quantitative easing are doing something.
Although it could be added that US economic growth remains uninspired and inflation almost non-existent.

Not everything was so rosy.
Wage growth was disappointing again. The May figure was revised down to barely 2.4 per cent over the year and the June figure needed a decent rounding up to get it to 2.5 per cent.
As Societe Generale's Omair Sharif pointed out, there was little to cheer in the industry breakdown either.
"In fact, the three largest sectors by their share of aggregate hours worked in the economy posted weak average hourly earnings figures in June," Mr Sharif noted.
It didn't change the betting the Federal Reserve will push ahead with a third rate hike this year.
However, given stagnant wages, the market believes the pace to "normalisation" will be unrushed.
Another way of looking at it is, it will take a lot to turn back the flood of concocted central bank money that has hit the global economy.
The Big Four central banks — US, EU, Japan and UK — have injected around $US14 trillion in the global economy in recent years. Make that $US19 trillion if you tip China's state generated liquidity in the pool.

No one is talking about turning off the taps any time soon, just turning them down a bit is the humble ambition.
Central banks will continue to buy bonds by the billion for some time yet. It will just be at a slower pace, or "tapering" as it is called.
The idea is central bankers will cancel the trillions of long-dated bonds they've bought as they mature, thus running down their bloated balance sheets. That is still way off in the future.
But markets are all about momentum. The slightest hint of a slowdown is enough to spook big investors, who then spook small investors.
The action in the bond market where yields jumped as institutional investors sold out — which in turn spilled over in equities — is a symptom likely to continue.
"Bond yields continued to rise partly in response to the minutes from the last ECB meeting which indicated it considered dropping its easing bias, but decided against it because it might trigger a tightening in financial conditions — which of course has happened anyway," AMP's Shane Oliver noted.
"The first 'taper tantrum' in 2013, which was kicked off by then Fed chair Ben Bernanke's comments around slowing or tapering the Fed's quantitative easing program, saw share markets fall 6-to-11 per cent and 10-year bond yields in the US and Australia rise by around 140 basis points.
"However, we remain of the view that the latest taper tantrum will settle down."

The ASX's 0.3 per cent slip last week was hardly cataclysmic.
"After strong gains and signs of investor complacency, shares and bonds have been vulnerable to a correction for some time," Dr Oliver observed.
Minack Advisors' Gerard Minack says his best bet is that the Fed's tightening will pressure long-end yields, which points to moderately lower equity valuations, particularly in defensive sectors.
"In terms of what out-performs, I expect that the rest of the world will continue to do better than the US, in common currency terms,"  Mr Minack says.
"And I expect sector leadership will be shared by industrial cyclicals and financials.
"I think the resource sectors — energy and mining — are not likely to participate in the broader cyclical out-performance," he said.
There may be a few more insights into the pace of tightening when Fed Reserve chair Janet Yellen fronts Congress again for her regular testimony/grilling on Wednesday.
From a historical point of view, it may be Dr Yellen's last visit to Congress as the Fed's boss.
The Fed's voting members are not exactly in lock step if the minutes of their latest meeting are any guide.
With internal debate going on, any precision on when the balance sheet rundown might commence, or if a September hike is on the cards, will be unlikely.
Then again precision and Federal Reserve-speak are not often mentioned in the same breath, so markets will probably take what they want from it anyway.
Otherwise it is a pretty quiet week.
The Bank of Canada is expected to raise official rates a notch (Wednesday), while China releases inflation (Monday) and trade (Thursday) figures.
The key piece of data in Australia will be home loans (Tuesday), while key readings of business and consumer confidence (Tuesday and Wednesday respectively) should tell two contrasting tales.
Business is pretty optimistic, consumers less so.
Monday
10/7/17
Tuesday
11/7/17
Wednesday
12/7/17
Thursday
13/7/17
Monday
10/7/17
Tuesday
11/7/17
Wednesday
12/7/17
Thursday
13/7/17
Retirement villages will have to simplify their contracts and make exit fees and preparing units for resale fairer, under proposed laws the Queensland Government wants passed by the end of the year.
Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said a bill would soon be introduced to State Parliament that would give stringent consumer protections to seniors living in retirement villages, residential parks and aged rental complexes in Queensland.
Last month, a joint investigation by the ABC's Four Corners and Fairfax Media into retirement village company Aveo uncovered exorbitant fees and complex contracts.
Fairfax Media and Four Corners spoke to current and former residents, their children, lawyers, former Aveo staff and lobby groups and found several alarming business practices at Aveo — including safety issues, misleading marketing and advertising and property sales.
The joint investigation obtained numerous Aveo contracts, which included clauses some lawyers described as complex and draconian.
The State Government said about 42,000 Queenslanders lived in 315 retirement villages, 17,000 were living in 185 residential parks, and 3,000 resided in aged rental complexes.
The proposed Queensland laws would require seniors accommodation providers to make contracts simple and standard, clearly declare ongoing fees and charges, give seniors at least 21 days to evaluate the contract before signing, and limit rental increases.

They would also make exit fees and preparing a unit for resale fairer, implement dispute resolution processes, and introduce enforceable behaviour standards for village operators.
Ms Palaszczuk said the changes were needed urgently to better protect seniors' rights.
"I want these changes to take effect before the end of the year," Ms Palaszczuk said.
"My Government consulted widely over the past 18 months and it's very clear that the rights of people who live in retirement villages just aren't in line with the expectations of the community."
Ms Palaszczuk said people who lived in residential parks faced similar issues.
"We intend to put in place a new, staged pre-contractual disclosure process, limits on rent increases, and minimum behavioural standards for park owners, staff and home owners," she said.
Opposition Leader Tim Nicholls said a parliamentary committee inquiry into retirement villages was held in 2012 and the LNP responded in 2013.
"We accepted 12 of the 37 recommendations," he said.
"There are another nine that we supported in principle that required further consultation and the balance required detailed investigation because they required legislative changes.
"Here we are three years on and only now has [Housing Minister] Mick de Brenni discovered that there is action that needs to be taken."

National Seniors Australia chief advocate Ian Henschke said he wanted Queensland to lead the way for national reform.
"Given that many of these retirement village companies operate nationally, I think it's only fair that people should have national laws," he said.
"I also believe that it's very important to have a commissioner who oversees these laws as well so they can handle complaints."
Mr Henschke said the Queensland reforms were welcomed, but the problem was broader.
"I think it's a very large problem and I think it's going to be a growing problem as well because we have 5.5 million baby boomers moving into that scene, so you can just see the scale of the problem," Mr Henschke said.
"Instead of having a comfortable retirement, many people are starting to see worries and concerns in their retirement because of the increases in ongoing fees and charges for example.
"Those things can put great strains on people, especially when they see other things going up like electricity charges for example."
Mr Henschke has urged the Queensland Government to talk to the Federal Government and state counterparts in other parts of Australia to eventually have a national system.
"So perhaps a person who lives on the Gold Coast and moves to northern New South Wales knows that they've got the same conditions for the contract in both states," Mr Henschke said.
"People in Australia like to have national laws, especially when they cover and protect them in consumer legislation."
The ABC has contacted the Retirement Living Council for comment.
There's something almost cult-like about the world of Sanjeev Gupta — the man who is now posed to take over Arrium's troubled Whyalla steelworks in South Australia.
The British Indian billionaire works at a frenetic pace, often through the night, rarely takes a day off and has high expectations of his staff.
They, in turn, offer the level of loyalty and dedication that any boss would kill for.
"He's surrounded himself with people who do seem to be intensely loyal to him, both very high up in the company and on the shop floor," BBC Wales business reporter Brian Meechan said.

Meechan has been following Mr Gupta for a documentary for the past year.
News that his business interests were about to extend to South Australia with the purchase of the Whyalla steelworks has sparked interest in Wales, where Mr Gupta now lives.

Mr Gupta began his business career from a college bedroom at Cambridge University but it was only in 2013 that he began buying distressed companies, in particular those that manufactured metals, and turned them around.
The first purchase was in Newport, Wales, where 150 workers had already seen numerous owners fail to make the steel mill a success.
They were used to hearing bad news. The last to try were Russian.
Mr Gupta was a mystery to them when he decided to step in.
"Nothing. Never heard anything of the man," said Ricky Skuse when asked about Mr Gupta's reputation.
Mr Skuse has worked in steel factories for 30 years.
In 2013 the industry was in crisis. There was a massive global over-capacity.
"It was a very gloomy time," Mr Skuse said as he finished his night shift this week at the Newport mill.
"It was the end of the industry as far as we were concerned, the industry I'd been in since I left college. It was gone, nothing left.
The mill was mothballed for two years before restarting under its new owner as Liberty Steel Newport.

But instead of sacking the workers during that period, Mr Gupta kept them all on.
Nineteen remained fulltime as caretakers and the remainder were put on half-pay and told they could take other jobs until the factory was up and running.
"He decided: 'I want to retain the workforce, retain the skills, put them on gardening leave'," the plant's production manager Peter Janik said.
"He didn't stop anyone else taking other work but when he needed them, he wanted them back."

It was a tactic that bought him loyalty and admiration — even from the unions who aren't renowned for their trust in the bosses.
Only two workers didn't return in 2015 for the reopening. And that's because they died.
"He hasn't made any of us redundant and throughout the country he hasn't made anyone redundant," Mr Skuse said.
Meechan suspects it takes a dedicated person to be in the Gupta inner circle.
"The world he operates in is quite a chaotic one," he said.
"He will be flying to Scotland one day and it will be cancelled at two o'clock in the morning and he'll decide he's flying to Australia instead. And the people who work with him will have to cancel all those bookings and suddenly start booking flights and everything to go to Australia.
"So I think you need to be a certain type of person to work for him, who's not on the clock and not working nine to five."

Liberty Steel CEO VB Garg came on board after a long career for big companies like ArcelorMittal and with stints in factories in India, UAE and Ukraine.
He said there's no secret to the world of Gupta.
"It's a sense of commitment… it's a sense of commitment that he shows towards the people and the business and he gets it back so people respond in a similar manner," he said.
Mr Gupta is buying up in an industry that many others are bailing out of.

It helps that he's buying businesses in trouble at discount prices — and he's concentrating on renewable energy.
He has big plans for green power at Whyalla including pumped storage hydro, solar and combined heat and power.
The steelworks in the UK have bio-diesel power plants and the aluminium smelter in Scotland is powered mainly by hydro-electricity.
He firmly believes if you can sort out the energy supply chain and reduce the cost of powering these factories then you're halfway there — and he sees recycled steel as the way of the future.
Professor Max Munday from Cardiff University said "only time will tell" if that will truly be the case but Mr Gupta has made impressions, and it's happening at breakneck speed.
"Unfortunately for Liberty, many of the key factors are completely outside of their control no matter how efficient they are," Professor Munday said.
And Meechan also has lingering questions about the finances of this privately owned company.
"It's a legitimate question," Meechan said.
"As far as he's [Mr Gupta] concerned and what he puts to us is that this is not unusual for a large global company with sales of over $10 billion throughout the world, but ultimately people do question it and want more information and want more transparency."

Ivanka Trump has broken with protocol and briefly taken her father US President Donald Trump's seat at the G20 leaders' summit in Hamburg.

The US President had stepped away for a meeting with Indonesian President Joko Widodo when Ms Trump, officially an adviser to the President, took the seat between British Prime Minister Theresa May and Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Absences at the G20 are usually covered by high-ranking state officials. The President returned a short while later.
A White House official said Ms Trump, a senior adviser, moved forward from the back of the room when the head of the World Bank discussed topics particularly relevant to her.
A photograph of the "first daughter" was tweeted by a member of the Russian delegation, before the tweet was deleted.

First lady Melania Trump also had a notable G20 role — she was spotted at more than one of the President's bilateral meetings.
Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump's husband and a senior adviser, also was present in a number of the President's meetings.
It is all part of Mr Trump's family-focused governing style that takes its cues from his decades running a family business.
The first lady was rarely seen or heard from during the early months of her husband's administration. But during the President's first two trips abroad, she has taken on a far more prominent role.
"It's not uncommon for the President to ask Mrs Trump to be present for many different meetings," Mrs Trump's spokeswoman, Stephanie Grisham, said.

Earlier Ms Trump also headlined her own event at the G20 when she joined World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim to launch the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative.

The World Bank fund conceived by the US President's 35-year-old daughter aims to help women entrepreneurs access capital and other support and received a $US50 million ($65 million) contribution from the United States.
Mr Kim said the fund had raised more than $US325 million ($427 million) so far for projects and programs to support women and women-led businesses by improving access to capital and markets, providing technical assistance, training and mentoring, and pushing public policy.
The fund grew out of conversations between Ms Trump and Mr Kim early in Mr Trump's administration.
"This is not a cute little project," Mr Kim said during a panel discussion, arguing the effort would spur real economic growth.
In addition to the US, the new fund has also received contributions from several countries including Australia.

Officials have stressed that Ms Trump will not have an operational or fundraising role with the fund, which will be run by a governing committee of contributors.
Mr Trump said the fund would help eliminate barriers for women to launch businesses, help transform "millions and millions of lives" and "provide new hope to these women from countless communities all across the world".

The President has been criticised for crude remarks he has made about women over the years, including a recent tweet focusing on a television news host's appearance.
Mr Trump's senior staff is dominated by men, despite the considerable influence of Ms Trump.
During his 2016 campaign, Mr Trump frequently criticised rival Hillary Clinton's ties to her family's Clinton Foundation, which received millions in donations from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and several other Mideast nations for charitable work.
Mr Trump also took the opportunity to praise his eldest daughter, saying he had been proud of her since "day one" and offered a rare, self-deprecating assessment of the challenges he has added to her life.
"If she weren't my daughter, it would be so much easier for her," he said.
"That might be the only bad thing she has going, if you want to know the truth."
Ms Trump has faced sustained criticism from opponents of her father who'd hoped she would be able to push him to adopt more moderate policies. Many have labelled her "complicit" in his agenda.
ABC/AP
There has been more flight chaos in Brisbane today after heavy fog caused the cancellation of scores of services out of the city's airports on Friday night.
Brisbane Airport Corporation (BAC) spokeswoman Leonie Vandeven said 80 flights were cancelled and 40 diverted due to the fog that blanketed the city.
Ms Vandeven urged passengers to contact their airlines before heading to the airport today as the backlog would continue to pose problems.
"Today it going to be probably just as disruptive — if not more — than last night," she said.
"There's going to be lots of overbooked flights so it's not going to be a pleasant travel day today.
"Normally where we have 30 aircraft sitting at the domestic terminal we currently have three."

She said it could take the entire day to get the network back on schedule because aircraft that were meant to be in Brisbane were diverted to other ports, including some international flights.
Ms Vandeven said the airlines were working to get passengers where they need to be.
"We do have a lot of people coming to the airport, so my advice is again to please if you're travelling this morning or even today, double-check with your airline before coming to the airport," she said.

The Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) said conditions would be clear today.
BOM senior forecaster Diana Eadie said the fog was caused by rainfall during the day and a humid air mass over the region.
"It did lift quite early this morning though, which was good for international flights that came in quite early this morning, so they were able to get through, so it did lift about three or four in the morning," she said.

The WA Nationals have joined Australia's biggest miners in calling for a quarter of mining royalties to be quarantined from the GST, despite likening BHP's efforts on tax reform to a "wet lettuce leaf".
Their agreement on the GST issue follows their fight over the Nationals' push for a substantial tax increase on BHP and Rio Tinto — which the mining lobby criticised as benefiting other states through GST distribution.
The Productivity Commission is reviewing whether the system of horizontal fiscal equalisation used to allocate GST revenue so all states can provide an equal level of services is benefiting the economy.
Both sides of WA politics want an overhaul of the distribution system which currently gives the state 34.5 cents for every dollar of GST it collects.
In their submission, the WA Nationals echoed BHP and the Minerals Council of Australia in suggesting a quarter of WA's mining royalties be exempt from the GST formula.
"At present, any increase in royalty income is offset by a reduction in GST revenue," the submission said.
"This situation therefore recommends quarantining a portion of mining royalty in recognition of the direct mining related expenses that are attributable to the industry."
The Nationals have continued to stand by their push to increase a 25 cent per tonne iron ore tax on BHP and Rio to $5 per tonne, to help fix the state's budget.
That's despite the mining lobby's multi-million-dollar campaign against the policy during the March state election, which saw former Nationals leader Brendon Grylls lose his seat of Pilbara.
Commenting on BHP's submission to the Productivity Commission, Nationals MP Terry Redman said if the company really wanted GST reform it could do a lot more.
"[The submission] is a wet lettuce leaf compared to the campaign that was run against the Nationals in the last election," Mr Redman said.
Nationals Leader Mia Davies said on Friday, BHP and Rio Tinto needed to put the same effort into changing the GST as they did in opposing her party's proposal.
"The Nationals today call on BHP and Rio to wield the same clout — dollar for dollar — to lobby the Federal Government to ensure Western Australia gets a better GST deal," Ms Davies said.
"Anything less would be a slap in the face to their landlords — all 2.5 million of us."
The WA Nationals also want a GST distribution that involves a mix of per capita allocation and the current system of equalisation, similar to that suggested by the McGowan Government and the Liberal opposition.
"This would better reflect actual circumstances and deliver a balanced GST share," the submission said.
It has also called for the three year lag in assessing a state's GST share to be removed, and replaced with a real time annual assessment to avoid further "perverse and unintended consequences" experienced by WA, where the economy has slumped but its GST share remains low.
Airports were once nothing more than grassy strips suited for biplanes, with only rudimentary forms of infrastructure.
But after the Second World War, aircraft became bigger and heavier. Accordingly, airports began to pave their runways to handle heavier planes and expand their terminals. They ended up with buildings that looked recognisably like the airports we see today: cities in their own right.
So, what makes a good airport, and are there things we can learn from the world's best?
Before the Second World War — and for a long time after — most airports were owned and operated by the state. The largest airport in the Netherlands, Schiphol Airport, was owned by the city of Amsterdam until the 1950s.
When it became clear that the city was not willing or able to finance a Schiphol upgrade, the national government of the Netherlands took ownership of three-quarters of the newly upgraded aerodrome.
But governmental control comes with challenges, particularly when the interests of different levels of government come into conflict. This problem, according Douglas Baker, head of property and planning at Queensland University of Technology, is particularly true in Australia.

"On one hand we have airports controlled by national governments expanding, and then we have state planning and city planning expanding around that," he says.
Professor Baker says that the layering of governments can lead to "silences" between the two. "That occurred worldwide, I think — certainly in the United States and certainly Australia."
In the 1980s, under Margaret Thatcher, the British government began to experiment with airport privatisation. Portions of London's Gatwick were sold off, and in Australia airport privatisation accelerated under the Howard government.
Today, Professor Baker says, Australia has the most privatised airport system in the world.
You can divide the real estate of airports into two categories: air side (runways, hangars) and land side (food courts, duty free stores). Today, Australia's largely privatised airports are among the most profitable businesses in the country — and a large chunk of that profit is not related to aviation.
According to Professor Baker, some 30 to 40 per cent of Australian airports' revenue comes from the land side.
"One of the most lucrative revenue streams is parking," he says.
"They are now businesses. They have shareholders, and the airports have got a turnover to shareholders — and fair enough."

For Antonin Kazda, professor of airport design and operation at the University of Žilina in Slovakia, this throws up something of an existential question for airport operators.
"Is it still an airport, or is it a shopping mall somewhere near a runway?" he asks.
Professor Kazda argues that the rush to create new revenue streams through commercial development has an impact on what is termed, in the business, passenger experience. (Intuitively, this makes sense: navigating crowded shops en route to a boarding gate is hardly an enjoyable experience.)
Interestingly, Professor Kazda sees variety by country. In the UK and Ireland, he says airports have become like big shopping malls. "On the other hand, if you go to the US, it's quite the opposite."
In the 1970s, Singapore's aviation industry faced something of a conundrum. Global air travel was a booming industry, and its existing two airports were struggling to keep up.
These forces led to the development of Changi airport — now consistently voted one of the best airports in the world. For Alan Chong, associate professor at the S Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore, Singaporean governments were right to target aviation as a growth industry.
"Flights to and from Australia, of course, had to stop over in Singapore at some point," he says.
The new Changi airport, Professor Chong says, was deliberately situated by the sea: with land reclamation techniques ensuring it would have little impact on residential dwellings (at least in theory).
For Professor Baker, the world's best airports are Changi, Hong Kong, Amsterdam's Schiphol and Vancouver.

"What makes all these airports a joy to move through is the passenger experience in terms of moving through customs and then moving into the terminals and transferring," he says.
According to Professor Chong, what makes a good airport is government control. "Aviation is a political goal which should not be impeded in any way."
Government ownership ensures that, in the likely event of expansion, airports have an easier time negotiating land acquisition and resettlement processes, he says.
Airport constructions are, like any major work of infrastructure, relatively thin on the ground. So where does the above leave Badgerys Creek, Sydney's long-awaited second airport?
Professor Baker says the first thing to be decided has to be the role of the new aerodrome.
"Do we want an airport that does all the regional hubbing? Do we want an airport that competes directly with Sydney? What type of second airport are we developing?" he asks.
Professor Alan Chong, for his part, is excited. "Building a second airport from scratch is one of the most wonderful things in anyone's national development plan," he says.
"An airport is no longer just a bricks and mortar facility for aviation transit, it has to be a destination in itself."
The deafening din is the same as any sawmill, but the timber rolling off the conveyor belt is far from conventional.
It has been radially sawn, a milling technique that delivers some enormous advantages over existing methods.
"Basically we cut up timber differently to other people," explained Chris McEvoy, former CSIRO wood scientist and now a joint owner of a company called Radial Timber.
"We cut it up like a pizza or a cake, so we're getting round logs and cutting them up into wedges and turning those wedges into boards."
Those boards are invariably more stable than conventionally sawn timber.
Its proponents believe it will hasten the shift away from the current large reliance on native forests.
A new $6 million sawmill at Yarram in Victoria's east is the culmination of three decades of invention and careful development. It takes the radical idea of radial sawing from a concept to a commercial reality.
"I've always said that once our demand exceeds our supply that really proves that the technology can work and the product can be accepted in the marketplace, so the slow build has been good for us because we've been able to iron out any bugs," Mr McEvoy said.
"And we've been able to really develop the technology and the end result is this mill which is going to cut a lot of timber for a long time."

The technology has its origins in the tall eucalypt forests that thrive in the nearby steep hills.
Inventor and ardent conservationist Andy Knorr was tired of seeing prime sawlogs sent to a district woodchip mill, so Mr Knorr invented a prototype mill that utilised up to 80 per cent of a log — about double that of conventional milling.
His quest to improve the technology continues, but a few years ago he sold his Yarram mill to Mr McEvoy and several other investors who saw the merits and potential of radial sawmilling.
To date some of Australia's leading architects have been the flagbearers for radial timber.

"Architects have taken our product and taken it to a whole new level," Mr McEvoy said.
"They've actually given us even more confidence in our product in what it can do and use it in some amazing designs."
Some of those designs have won national design awards and the timber has won support for its environmental credentials, its durability and aesthetic appeal.
"I thought it was so pure and simple and clever that I was immediately drawn to it," Melbourne architect Ric Zen said.

"I thought it was too good to be true, to be honest at first."
Mr Zen, an enthusiastic supporter of the radial sawing technology for several decades, said he was delighted that the concept was being vindicated.
The company was also in a trial venture with Heartwood Plantations to evaluate the best species to grow to supply the mill in years to come.
The trial plantations, on sites near the mill, were looking so promising that they are on track to yield useful sawlogs by the time they reach 25 years of age. That is about half the time it takes to grow a sawlog in a native forest.
For the small town of Yarram, the new mill means 15 direct jobs in a region where employment can be hard to find.
Mr McEvoy said he never doubted the technology would work. But he admitted he was constantly surprised by the success of the business.
"Probably our biggest area of sales now is inner city. It used to be very rural and used to be very like farm sheds. Now we're basically the cutting edge of inner city architecture, which is fantastic."
See the story on Landline this Sunday at noon.
The South Australian farming community of Jamestown could become a tourist hot spot after Tesla builds the world's largest lithium ion battery nearby.
A historic agreement to build a 100 megawatt battery has been reached between the South Australian Government, Tesla and French renewable company Neoen.
It will store energy from Neoen's Hornsdale Wind Farm near Jamestown.
Tesla boss Elon Musk said the battery would look quite impressive and could become a drawcard for the area.
"It'll actually be a tourist destination for some period of time because you'll just want to see this giant battery farm," he said.
"I think it'll be quite nicely arranged white obelisks. I mean if this got unearthed in the future [people would say], 'What was this, some sort of art exhibit?'
"I think it will have some value as a tourist spot for a while."

Jamestown born and bred, resident Kevin Alcock said locals were excited by Mr Musk's promise.
"I think it's fantastic for the town and the district [for] investment, [it] puts us on the map," he said.
"Anything for country towns is a big, big plus."
Another Jamestown local, Colin Cross, said anything new for the district was welcome.
"It's going to keep some young fellas here instead of going to town looking for jobs," he said.
"It will keep families together, that's my honest thoughts."
Tesla said tens or hundreds of jobs would be created during the construction phase of the battery, which should be completed by December 1 this year.
Premier Jay Weatherill said South Australian company CPP had been awarded the contract to be part of the construction.
"It's a massive installation, so there will obviously be a huge initial input of jobs," Mr Musk said.
"And I think long term, because it'll be three times more powerful than the next biggest battery installation in the world. We're going to also make an effort to have it look good."
Northern Areas Council Mayor Denis Clark said he felt positive about the Jamestown community's future.
"Any jobs in regions is excellent and it's got to be great for the long-term future of our communities," Mr Clark said.
"It's new news, so I will have to wait for a period of time to see what the reaction is — for the regions and for the sustainability of our power, well it has got to be a positive I would've thought."

The usually "boring" second-quarter power prices have given way to "astounding, off-the-chart" increases, according to a leading energy analyst.

Research from consultants WattClarity shows average wholesale power prices for east coast states in the National Energy Market (NEM) have jumped between 150 per cent and 240 per cent over the past two years.
Second-quarter (Q2) power prices generally are the least volatile in the NEM, lacking the huge spikes associated with hot weather in the first three months of the year and the cold snaps of winter.
WattClarity analyst Paul McArdle said if the jump in Q2 prices in 2016 were "truly remarkable", then 2017 was "off the scale".
While the wholesale prices are not exactly correlated to retail prices paid by households and business, they do indicate bill shock is on its way.
Most retailers hedge against volatility to an extent, with the least hedged likely to pass on the steepest rises.
"Higher prices will flow through, guaranteed, the size will depend which retailer you're with'" Mr McArdle said.
"What the figures show is the level of risk at play in the NEM is a whole lot higher," Mr McArdle said.
"You can see it in higher prices and lower security of supply."
Retailers have already announced households in New South Wales and South Australia will see their power bills rise by around 20 per cent from this month, while Queensland increases are more modest.
Victoria and Tasmania are priced on the calendar year and will release new prices in December.
Q2 wholesale power price
(Long time weighted average)
Percentage change
vs Q2 2016
Percentage change
vs Q2 2015
Second-highest on record
1/2 hr prices +$50/MW on long-term average
Second-highest on record
Exceeded only by drought affect 2016
Highest on record
Just below "crisis" levels of 2016
1/2 hr prices under $50/MWh disappeared
Highest on record
1/2 hr price above $100/MWh 67pc of the time
Mr McArdle said the recent rises seen in Q2 are both more systemic, and actually increasing over time.
"It's clear that there are a number of factors behind these changes, and that these factors play different weights in different regions.
"This will have huge implications all the way through the electricity supply chain — for generators, retailers, traders, and for energy users — small and large."
Mr McArdle said Victoria's break above $100 per megawatt hour (MWh) took it to, "A gut wrenching level for the vast majority of energy users in what has traditionally been one of the more boring quarters".
Both New South Wales and Queensland endured marginally higher Q2 prices during the 2007 drought.
"Whilst that year suffered from transient issues, it is looking like what's affecting prices in the NEM is now more deep-seated, multi-faceted, and systemic," Mr McArdle noted.
The situation in South Australia — with half-hour price blocks now above $100/MWh for 67 per cent of the time — was extreme, more than triple the incidence of two year ago.
In Victoria it is above the $100/MWh level around half the time.
"Quite literally, the incidence for South Australia and Tasmania are both off the chart, with Victoria just scraping in below 2,400 half hours — still more than 50 per cent of the time," Mr McArdle said.
"This is a far more excessive outcome than either Q2 2016 and Q2 2007 (the drought year), and there seems to be worrying signs that this is a continued pattern.
"All the while our political leaders fiddle, Rome burns."
Two years ago, the average Q2 wholesale price ranged between Victoria's $31KWh and $45/KWh in South Australia.
However the cost structure has shifted dramatically.
"These days generators can't, or don't bid, at anything much under $50/MWh," Mr McArdle said.
Mr McArdle said there are numerous cases of over-simplification for the cause of the price hike which have clouded the issue.
"It's all due to the Hazelwood closure, it's all due due to high gas prices, it's all due to intermittency, it's all due to those greedy incumbent gentailers, it's all due to the wind drought, the list goes on."
Mr McArdle said there was a desperate need to increase the capacity for thinking around the greatly increased number of variables in power pricing.
If not, "it will all end in tears", Mr McArdle warned.
Queensland's new ID scanning laws will hinder the progress the state's nightlife industry has made in the past few years, an award-winning Brisbane bar says.
Gresham manager Ryan Lane said the laws were "embarrassing" after the club was forced to turn away a group of French winemakers who were not carrying identification earlier this week.
"These guys were anywhere between 40 and 65 years old, sober, incredibly polite, lovely people," he said.
"They ticked every single box to enter our venue, except for the fact that two of them didn't have their passport on them so they're not going to break up a group, so they all left."
Aimed at curbing alcohol and drug-fuelled violence, the laws require venues open past midnight in Queensland's safe night precincts to scan IDs after 10:00pm.
Mr Lane said the blanket laws needed to be more flexible, instead of having a one-size-fits-all approach.
"The four years we've been open, we have an absolutely perfect record when it comes to alcohol-related violence and safety," he said.
Mr Lane also warned the laws could have negative impacts on the city's thriving hospitality industry.
"Brisbane is going through its greatest transformation when it comes to nightlife," he said.
"We draw a lot of tourism from down south and internationally as well … those people aren't going to know this legislation that just came in last Saturday."
The last few years have seen Brisbane bars pick up major category awards in the Australian Good Food Guide and Gourmet Traveller.

"We picked up four of the major categories for Australian Bar of the Year … we got Best Bar, Family got Nightclub of the Year, West End's Cobbler got Small Bar of the Year, and Lefty's Old Time Music Hall on Caxton Street picked up Live Music Bar of the Year."
He explained the costs associated with the installation and operation of the compulsory scanning machines would force some venues to shut down.
"We're very proud of the success of the Queensland hospitality industry over the past few years … and now this is just cutting us off at the knees," he said.
Security guards have also said the machines had trouble reading interstate and foreign identification.
A nightclub owner in Cairns was left out of pocket when the scanners failed to read the foreign passports of sailors from a visiting US Navy ship.
Cairns Safe Night Precinct president John Lynch, who also runs a CBD pub, said there were significant delays because details had to be entered manually, with some patrons walking away.
"It's actually cost our business alone around $5,000 to $10,000 over the weekend, as well as the additional cost of extra security. We're imploring the Government to do the right thing, pause what they're doing and make sure the technology is ready to go before they roll it out," he said.
The Government said the scanners would have to be reconfigured for international visitors, because of the reversal of dates on passports and licences.

But Deputy Premier Jackie Trad said the issues were part of the initial shift to the new system.
"I think the scanners are working — people are getting used to the transition, but to be clear this was a very important part of reducing alcohol-fuelled violence in licensed premises," she said.
"What we need to do is work with clubs and licensed premises to make sure those issues are resolved."
Australia's largest coffee chain Gloria Jean's is being sued by reusable coffee cup company KeepCup for allegedly copying one of its designs.
The KeepCup Brew was introduced in 2014 and sells for about $30.
"It's got fully tempered soda lime glass and this is the really critical part for engineering — the fit of [the] lid on the glass cup," KeepCup managing director Abigail Forsyth said.
But last November, Gloria Jean's started selling a similar reusable cup for $22.
Gloria Jean's has 400 stores in Australia and is owned by the ASX-listed Retail Food Group, which also owns Donut King, Brumby's and Michel's Patisserie.
Although both companies' cups look similar, Melbourne-based KeepCup will have difficulty proving that its design was copied, Professor Andrew Christie from Melbourne University's law school said.
He also said it was unusual for a small company to take on a multinational.
"I imagine Gloria Jean's pockets are a lot deeper than KeepCups'," he said.
"Gloria Jean's can afford to drag this out where KeepCup probably can't."
While firms can register their designs with the Australian Patent Office, it does not guarantee protection.
If another business copies the design, the only alternative is an expensive court battle.
"The fact you can't be sure you'll get the chance to have your concerns properly considered by virtue of cost is constraining people from even taking out [intellectual property] rights in the first place, or possibly even engage in the innovation," Professor Christie said.
Last year, the Productivity Commission released a damning report into the state of Australia's intellectual property (IP) laws, saying the current protections in safeguarding rights fell short.
The commission recommended a new IP framework, changes to the act, and charging companies for delaying court cases.

The Federal Government is expected to respond soon.
Meanwhile, Professor Christie believes this is a good test case.
"If KeepCup succeeds, that's sending a strong message saying that registered design law matters," he said.
"If KeepCup loses, it's saying Australian registered design law doesn't give enough rights.
"And if the parties don't even get to have their fight in court because it's all too expensive, that tells me we have a problem with our court system."
The stakes are very high for KeepCup.
"For us, this is a fight for our business," Ms Forsyth said.
"If we don't protect our IP and demand others respect it, we don't have a business anymore."
Ms Forsyth, a former cafe owner, started the company back in 2009 when she noticed a need for reusable cups that fitted into a coffee machine.
"What we designed fitted under the group heads, had the right internal volume, and you could just press the lid on in a busy service environment," she said.
Gloria Jean's has pulled its cup from the market, but declined to comment when contacted by the ABC.
The case will be heard in the Federal Court later this year.
This story is on The Business — tonight at 8:30pm (AEST) on the ABC News channel and ABC iview.
Careers Australia's executive chairman sent an urgent letter to the Federal Education Minister six weeks before the collapse of the private education giant, demanding immediate access to taxpayer funding and accusing the department of threatening its existence.

Careers Australia collapsed into voluntary administration in late May, leaving 15,000 students and 1,100 staff facing uncertain futures.
The leaked letter, seen by 7.30, was written by executive chairman Patrick McKendry on April 15, and co-signed by Nicholas Watkins, the partner of private equity owner White Cloud Capital.
Careers Australia has been plagued by accusations it made hundreds of millions of dollars from vocational education by using dubious sales tactics which pressured vulnerable students into enrolling.
A crackdown by the Turnbull Government on the scandal-plagued sector announced last year resulted in Careers Australia being refused entry to its new VET Student Loans scheme in April.
The letter, written days after the decision, reveals how desperate the financial situation inside Careers Australia was.
"CAG (Careers Australia Group) has received no payment from its major client, the Commonwealth Government, for three months [soon to be four]," Mr McKendry wrote.
Mr McKendry goes on to demand Education Minister Simon Birmingham and the head of the department, Dr Michele Bruniges, immediately reverse the decision to refuse his organisation entry to VET Student Loans.
"CAG's very existence is now at serious risk due to the department's recent decisions," he wrote.

The letter is particularly concerning because the voluntary administrators, PPB Advisory, believe Careers Australia could have been trading insolvent for up to six months before its collapse.
Company directors are legally obligated to avoid insolvent trading and a director that breaches that duty can face up to five years in jail and fines of up to $200,000.
Careers Australia is in liquidation and the corporate regulator ASIC will consider whether to pursue action against the directors.
In the letter, Mr McKendry chastised the behaviour of the department, accusing it of not meeting its obligations.
"CAG needs the DET (Department of Education and Trainee) to meet its payment obligations and be a responsible sector partner — 'doing what it says, when it says it will.'," he wrote.
"There cannot be any more letters out of the blue, like that received … on Friday 31 March information CAG that a multi-million-dollar scheduled payment for the next day would not be made!"
"This type of behaviour shows no understanding or regard for the cash flow realities of businesses."
Mr McKendry accuses the department of having "close to zero communication" with it about its ongoing concerns and describes any issues as "historical".
In an apparent contradiction he later wrote: "We have been working in recent months to address issues that had previously been of concern to the department, including investing millions of dollars".


The letter also makes it clear to the Education Minister the dire financial situation faced by the organisation.
"The surprise of CAG not receiving a permanent VSL (VET Student Loans) licence with its massive impact on CAG's viability was the proverbial straw that broke the camel's back," Mr McKendry wrote.
"The board of directors are now under a legal obligation to cease trading and call in a voluntary administrator if the company cannot meet its future obligations."
Mr McKendry signed off by suggesting it is up to Senator Birmingham and his department to save his organisation from collapsing.
"We very much hope that you and your colleagues at the department will support us and the banks to save the largest private vocational training provider in the country, secure the education of its 15,000 students and employment of its 1,100 staff."
Careers Australia collapsed six weeks later with staggering debts of more than $150 million.
The Education Department is owed $30 million after making excessive payments due to inflated estimates of student enrolments.

Former staff member Roslyn Bennett said the letter was another concerning revelation.
"It appears Patrick McKendry has told the Education Department they could be insolvent training in April," she told 7.30.
"The staff could have used the extra warning to start applying for work sooner."
Staff are owed up to $17 million in unpaid entitlements and many remain unemployed.
In a statement to 7.30, Senator Birmingham defended the decision to exclude Careers Australia from the its new scheme.
"The Turnbull Government's VET Student Loans program ensures only high-quality training organisations are accessing taxpayer-funded student loans and it puts students front and centre with greater protections and an emphasis on ensuring they are completing and passing courses," Senator Birmingham said.
Mr McKendry was contacted for comment but did not respond.
Victorian businesses are struggling to cope with their power bills, with new analysis showing wholesale prices in the state have more than tripled since 2015.

Analysis from energy consultancy company Global-Roam shows wholesale power prices soared 63 per cent in Victoria between the second quarter of last year and this year.
When the second quarter of 2015 is compared with 2017, the wholesale price more than tripled — rising 238 per cent to $104 per megawatt hour.
Victorian prices have never been so high in the 19-year history of the National Electricity Market, according to Global-Roam analyst Paul McArdle.
He said the closure of the Latrobe Valley's Hazelwood coal-fired power station was just one factor contributing to the "extreme" rise, with others including high gas prices, intermittency from renewables and regulatory uncertainty.
"Those pre-disposed to draw overly simplistic 'it was due to' … conclusions are unlikely to be correct and could be dangerously misleading," he wrote.
The Wilson Transformer Company, which manufactures electricity distribution and power transformers for coal, gas, solar and wind projects at two factories at Glen Waverley and Wodonga, said its electricity costs rose by 83 per cent this month to $1.5 million for the financial year.
The company's executive chairman, Robert Wilson, said the increase would shave about $700,000 off the company's bottom line.
He said power costs for the following two financial years would then reduce to about $1.27 million and $1.17 million, which he said was still high.
"That was the best offer we could get, other offers went up to over 100 per cent," he said.
It came after a national survey of 2,300 consumers and 200 small businesses by Energy Consumers Australia found they ranked electricity behind banking, mobile phone and internet services on value for money.

Grattan Institute's Energy Program director Tony Wood said it was difficult to see how the situation would improve in the short term.
"This is the result of a train wreck that's taken a while to create," he told ABC Radio Melbourne's Mornings with Jon Faine.

"We're now seeing some of the consequences of probably four or five things over the last several years that have all come together at the worst possible time."
Mr Wood said governments at both the federal and state level had failed to provide policy certainty about what would replace the output from the closure of coal power plants such as Hazelwood.
The gap has to this point been mostly filled by gas "just when gas is turning out to be very expensive," he added.
"We get concerned, not surprisingly, about the impact on we as consumers at a household level. But the impact on business, in percentage terms, is even bigger, because they use so much more electricity," he said.
"The longer-term outlook looks a whole lot better but in the short term ... it's hard to see any relief from the situation we're in."
St Vincent de Paul Society policy and research manager Gavin Dufty said the increase in wholesale prices would not be felt by Victorian households until next summer.
He said the state's major retailers would adjust their prices for the new year, adding about $200 to the average first quarter electricity bill.
"We saw between 6 to 7 per cent price increases in Victoria on the 1st of January this year. There will be another price reset for Victoria on January 1, 2018, and I would expect a similar price increase again," he said.
A survey earlier this year by Victoria's Chamber of Commerce and Industry showed that 1 per cent of businesses were planning to shut down because of high energy costs.
Industries such as manufacturing, tourism and construction, which use large amounts of electricity, have been the hardest hit.
South Australia will be home to the world's largest lithium ion battery thanks to a historic agreement between Tesla and the State Government.
And Tesla boss Elon Musk is promising to build it in 100 days, or it's free.

Tesla will build the 100-megawatt battery which will store energy from French renewable company Neoen's Hornsdale Wind Farm near Jamestown, which is still under construction.
The project will be in place before summer.
Mr Musk's '100 days or it's free' pledge starts once the grid interconnection agreement has been signed.

But the promise could leave Mr Musk significantly out of pocket if he fails to deliver to deadline.

He estimated it would cost him "probably $50 million or more" if the 100 days lapse without the battery installed.
"If South Australia is willing to take a big risk, then so are we," he said.
South Australia has been battling power problems since a statewide blackout in September 2016.
In response, the State Government announced a raft of measures to improve stability, including building a 100-megawatt (129 megawatt hour) battery, and owning and operating a $360 million gas-fired plant.
The Government said the battery would put the state at the forefront of global energy storage technology.

The battery will stabilise the network at all times and will provide back-up power if there is a shortfall.
Mr Musk, who is also the head of space exploration company Space X, told a press conference at Adelaide Oval that this project was "not a minor foray into the frontier".
"There is certainly some risk, because this will be the largest battery installation in the world by a significant margin ... the next biggest battery in the world is 30 megawatts," Mr Musk said.
He said it was "three times further than anyone has gone before" and would "stabilise the grid and buffer power".
"You can essentially charge up the battery packs when you have excess power when the cost of production is very low ... and then discharge it when the cost of power production is high, and this effectively lowers the average cost to the end customer," Mr Musk said.

"It's a fundamental efficiency improvement for the grid."
Mr Musk initially made the 100-day pledge via Twitter in March, after being alerted to South Australia's power woes by billionaire tech guru Australian Mike Cannon-Brookes, who co-founded software company Atlassian.
The pledge caught the attention of the twittersphere and surprised Mr Cannon-Brookes, who tweeted "Holy s#%t".
Mr Musk, who will visit Jamestown before he leaves Australia, said the battery would be "nicely arranged white obelisks".
"We're going to make an effort to have it look good, that it will also be a tourism destination."

Mr Weatherill said the state had led the nation in renewable energy and would now lead the world in battery storage.
"It will completely transform the way in which renewable energy is stored, and also stabilise the South Australian network as well as putting downward pressure on prices," he said.
"It opens up new opportunities for renewable energy in this state, in this nation, and around the world, to be dispatchable [to be used]."
Mr Weatherill said the Government had about 91 international bidders for the battery project.

"That was of course assisted by a little bit of Twitter exchange in the few days before we released our plan between Elon Musk and also Mike Cannon-Brookes."
"This historic agreement does more than bring a sustainable energy giant in Tesla to South Australia, it will also have some significant economic spin-off," Mr Weatherill said.

Neoen deputy chief executive Romain Desrousseaux said the company was proud to work with the Government and Tesla to expand the Hornsdale Wind Farm in Jamestown in the state's Mid North.
"At 100MW and 129MWh, the Hornsdale Power Reserve will become not only the largest renewable generator in the state but also home to the largest lithium ion battery in the world, with our company's long-term, direct investment in South Australia growing to almost $1 billion since 2013," he said.
Climate Council chief councillor Professor Tim Flannery said the state was moving away from polluting, expensive and inefficient fossil fuels.
"South Australians are witnessing first hand how swiftly this technology can be built and used, with the battery expected to be up and running this summer," Professor Flannery said.
"South Australia joins the likes of California as a world leader in demonstrating how renewable energy and storage technologies can power our economy cheaply and cleanly."

Telstra and Dodo customers are giving the telcos a bad rap in a CHOICE survey that found 62 per cent of Australians are experiencing slow speeds, disconnection and drop-out issues with their internet.

Some of the better performing internet providers on overall satisfaction were Internode, iiNet and iPrimus, with Telstra and Dodo coming out on the bottom of the survey.
Telstra has been under scrutiny in the past two years for repeated service drop-outs and has apologised to customers more than once.

CHOICE chief executive officer Alan Kirkland said he was not surprised Telstra rated poorly on value for money.
"[Telstra] are one of the most expensive providers," he said.
"When we looked at Telstra services last year and compared like-for-like with other services we found that consumers can pay a premium of up to 92 per cent just for going with Telstra."
A Telstra spokesman said they understood "value and a great network experience" was important for customers.
"We will continue to invest more than any other Australian telco to provide the best network experience, offer plans with generous allowances that meet the changing ways people use their service and include a number of valuable extras customers can't get anywhere else," the spokesman said.
Dodo disappointed on connection speed and reliability of connections, which Mr Kirkland said was probably a result of their sales strategy.
"It's interesting to see Dodo do so poorly for connection speed given that it spruiks 'superfast' broadband. Clearly people are not getting what they paid for," Mr Kirkland said.

The survey also identified bundled offers were not the most important factor for consumers when selecting a plan, with customers instead focused on a basic service that was reliable and value for money.
"When it comes to broadband you want it to work when you need it to work, whether you're trying to watch a movie or work from home," he said.
"Those issues around speed and reliability are what's driving Australian consumers mad."
Slow speeds and connection issues were also one of the major problems reported amongst those with the NBN.

Infant formula maker Bellamy's shares are in a trading halt - after Chinese authorities decided to suspend the export licence of its newly-acquired subsidiary.
The subsidiary in the firing line is Camperdown Powder Pty Ltd, a Victorian blending and canning facility, in which Bellamy's purchased a 90 per cent indirect stake for $28.5 million.
In a statement to the ASX, Bellamy's said it was trying "to determine the reasons and impact of the Camperdown's suspension of its CNCA licence by the China authorities overnight".
China is Bellamy's major export market and, in recent months, the company has been plagued by problems with sales and regulations there.
Bellamy's bought the Camperdown facility with the hope that it would guarantee access to the Chinese market, and form a key part of its turnaround strategy.
It was only on Tuesday that the embattled company raised $60.4 million to help fund the acquisition.
"The transaction has been approved, the money has been raised," financial analyst Sam Baker said.
"But it now appears only a week later that the food and drug association in China has deregistered this facility - which was the primary purpose of the acquisition.
"There would have to be some questions raised in relation to the due diligence done by the company in relation to this facility."

Bellamy's shares have plunged by more than 30 per cent in the past 12 months.
The company's shares closed steady at $6.74 on Thursday.
In the lead-up to the G20 summit, most of the world's major stock markets in the US, Asia and Europe finished lower.

Wall Street fell the sharpest as every sector posted losses, with the worst performers being technology, healthcare and energy stocks.
Oil prices lifted, but not enough to recover from their 4 per cent plunge on the previous day.
All this suggests the Australian share market will open lower today.
So why was it so glum for overseas markets?
Firstly, nervousness about international conflict is still weighing on investor sentiment.At a news conference in Warsaw, US President Donald Trump vowed to confront North Korea "very strongly" following the rogue state's latest missile test.He also urged nations to show Pyongyang there would be consequences for its weapons program.
This issue presents President Trump with perhaps his biggest foreign policy challenge.
It has also put pressure on his relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping, whom Mr Trump had pressed to rein in Pyongyang.
On Tuesday, North Korea tested its latest intercontinental ballistic missile, which some experts believe can strike parts of the US, and even northern Australia.
There was a sharp rise in sovereign bond yields following the release in recent days of meeting minutes from the US Federal Reserve and European Central Bank, which contained more hawkish rhetoric.
European stocks dropped after the 10-year German Bund yield rose above 0.50 per cent - their highest level in one-and-a-half years.
In the US, the 10-year Treasury yield lifted to 2.38 per cent.
This helped to drive the US and European stock markets down.
Furthermore, the US had some weaker-than-expected jobs data, according to a report jointly developed by Moody's Analytics and payroll company ADP.
One hundred and fifty-eight thousand new jobs were created in the US private sector, which is less than the 184,000 new jobs estimated by economists polled by Reuters.
It is also much less than the 230,000 positions created in May.
The US Department of Labor also released some disappointing job figures overnight.
It revealed that last week applications for unemployment benefits rose for the third straight week, with 248,000 new claims (higher than the 243,000 predicted by economists).
A report by the energy watchdog has found a relatively cheap option could solve South Australia's Eyre Peninsula's power issues that were most starkly exposed during last September's statewide blackout.
The draft report by South Australia's Essential Services Commission (ESCOSA) found there has been a "significant deterioration" in power reliability in the region within the past year.
It attributed that to severe weather, which caused three major outages — two in September and one in December.
Eyre Peninsula residents were without power for three days during the worst of those incidents, which began on September 28 when electricity supply was cut to all of the state.
ESCOSA's report considered potential solutions from providers ElectraNet and SA Power Networks, including construction of new transmission lines and reinsulating thousands of existing poles to make them lightning-resistant.
The most expensive of those — building two single-circuit transmission lines along separate routes between Port Lincoln and Cultana near Whyalla — was estimated to cost almost $37 million.
But ESCOSA found that a cheaper, and potentially more effective solution, would involve upgrading SA Power Networks' sub-transmission network to allow diesel generators at Port Lincoln to supply wider parts of the peninsula.
"Total maximum demand on the Eyre Peninsula [excluding the Whyalla region] is around 50 megawatts which could be met by two of the Port Lincoln generators," the report stated.
That option was costed at $398,700.
ESCOSA's chief executive Adam Wilson said whatever solution was adopted, planning would be crucial.

"We need to have a conversation with the community about how much it's prepared to pay for what level of reliability," he said.
"It's no good the community having lots of disparate plans and lots of people doing their own thing.
"There needs to be a common approach to delivering power in the long run."
Mr Wilson said boosting the role of renewable and battery power was also within the scope of the report.
"Alternative generation sources, new technologies, are squarely the things we're looking at to see if reliability can be improved on the peninsula to give good consumer outcomes at perhaps a better cost than you might see from just investing in the old-fashioned poles and wires," he said.
Energy Minister Tom Koutsantonis said ESCOSA had identified some practical options with the potential to improve reliability and quality of supply on Eyre Peninsula.
"This is a draft report and ESCOSA will be looking at costs and customer impacts in further detail as it gathers evidence through the consultation phase," Mr Koutsantonis said.
"This is particularly important as the impacts of new and changing circumstances, such as the Arrium announcements, will be taken into account."
German police have used water cannons and pepper spray to disperse protesters in Hamburg after being attacked with bottles and stones by marchers protesting about the G20 summit.

About 75 police officers were injured throughout the evening clashes, with three requiring treatment in hospital, police said.
The pilots of a police helicopter sustained eye injuries when laser pointers were directed at them, police said.
The clashes erupted near the summit venue on Thursday (local time), less than an hour after Chancellor Angela Merkel met US President Donald Trump.
Police said they repeatedly asked a group of hardcore anti-capitalist demonstrators to remove their masks, to no avail.
They fired water cannons at black-clad protesters after they threw bottles and bricks, breaking the window of a police vehicle.

A nearby building was plastered with the slogan: "Borderless solidarity instead of nationalism: attack the G20."

A small group on the roof set off fireworks. Police said windows at a furniture store and a bank were damaged.
There was no immediate word on the number of arrests.
Thousands of protesters from around Europe, who say the G20 has failed to solve many of the issues threatening world peace, poured into Hamburg ahead of the talks.
Police expect about 100,000 protesters in the port city, some 8,000 of whom are deemed by security forces to be ready to commit violence. Up to 20,000 police officers are on hand.
At least 13,000 protesters joined the main march on Thursday, including about 1,000 black-clad anarchists, police said.

"Welcome to hell" was the protesters' greeting for Mr Trump and other world leaders arriving for the two-day meeting.
The chaos tarnished the outset of the meeting Ms Merkel hopes will cement her role as a stateswoman as she seeks re-election in September.

The summit, which starts in full on Friday, is a chance for her to polish her diplomatic credentials but would be disastrous if marred by violence.
Ms Merkel has taken a high-risk gamble by choosing to hold the summit in the northern port city of Hamburg, partly to show the world that big protests are tolerated in a healthy democracy.
Before meeting Mr Trump, she struck a consensual tone, holding out hope for agreement on the divisive issue of climate policy and pledging to broker compromises.
She pledged to represent German and European interests at the summit, but added: "On the other hand, as hosts we — and I — will do all we can to find compromises."

Mr Trump faces a testy confrontation at the summit with leaders of the other big Group of 20 economies after deciding last month to pull the United States out of the 2015 Paris climate deal.
Agreement could yet be found on climate, Ms Merkel indicated.
"There are various options, which can be discussed. We know that the United States have withdrawn. All others ... or as far as I know, many, many others stand by this agreement," she said.
She and Mr Trump discussed G20 themes, North Korea, the Middle East, and the conflict in eastern Ukraine, a German government spokesman said.
Mr Trump, who earlier in Poland called again on NATO partners to spend more on defence and said he would confront the threat from North Korea, is also due to hold his first face-to-face meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin on the sidelines of the summit.
Their meeting, scheduled for Friday, will be closely watched at a time when mutual ties remain strained by US allegations of Russian election hacking, Syria, Ukraine and a US row over Mr Trump associates' links to Moscow.


Reuters
Households and small businesses rank electricity behind banking, mobile phone and internet services on value for money, a national survey of energy consumers shows.
The survey of 2,300 consumers and 200 small businesses by Energy Consumers Australia also found there was widespread concern about the sector's future reliability.

The group's CEO Rosemary Sinclair said with consumers facing double-digit price hikes, the survey results highlighted the need for retailers to better communicate with their customers.
"There's no visible reason that consumers can see for these increases," she said.
"So when they think about energy compared to other sectors they really feel that the value for money's very poor."
"Retailers have a responsibility to work with their customers to help them avoid a price shock in the months ahead."
Ms Sinclair also said there was evidence consumers saw competition as a good thing but they were not convinced they were getting the benefits they should be.
"What the energy sector will be doing at the start of July will be sending more price hikes to customers and we just don't see that sort of price rise in other industries without a change in the value for money," she said.
"But ultimately with consumers being nervous about the sector, we're not at a good starting point."

The survey also showed more people were taking energy consumption into their own hands.
Ms Sinclair said as the cost for electricity increased more people were likely to invest in energy alternatives.
"We've seen a very significant increase in people investing in solar panels and batteries," she said.
"We expect with more price rises expected that that trend will accelerate."
The new report into the future of the National Electricity Market could lead to a better consumer experience, according to Ms Sinclair.
She said the implementations of some of the measures laid out in Alan Finkel's report could lead to more consumer confidence.
"We're not expecting this to be over in a hurry, but certainly value for money disillusionment has been a consistent [theme] over the past three surveys that we've done and we're not expecting it to be over in a hurry," she said.
"It's going to require a combination of the Finkel recommendations being implemented to deal with the issues in the medium to long term."
The invasion of robots into factories and offices has long been seen as final blow for workforces ravaged by cheap offshore labour and the never ending quest to cut costs.

However, that is a view being seriously challenged in hi-tech steel fabricating factory just south of Brisbane.
Having put "artificially intelligent" welding and cutting equipment to work, Smart Steel Systems chief executive Chis Brugeaud said he was now able to bring back jobs "onshore" and reverse the trend of laying off people as technology improves.
"What makes us different from the traditional fabricator is we have as many developers as we do welders, so we can process around 42,000 tonnes of steel a year," Mr Brugeaud told The Business program.
Robotics has delivered two noticeable outcomes. It has more than halved the time it takes to produce a tonne of fabricated steel and the number of employees has risen from three to nine.

The payroll now includes software, mechatronics and robotics engineers.
The company's welders and boilermakers like Mike Robinson have moved off the factory floor into the office and now sit alongside computer scientists and artificial intelligence experts.
"We've gone from marking material out on your hands and knees by hand and cutting it by hand, to profile cutting out by computer technology," Mr Robinson said.
Economist and director of consultants Alpha Beta, Andrew Charlton, has been studying whether there is any truth to concerns that the pace of automation is increasing and will end in mass unemployment.
"The rate today is no higher than it was in the peak of the 1950s and 60s, when automation was taking thousands of jobs out of agriculture, no greater than it was in the 70s and 80s when automation was taking thousands of jobs out of manufacturing," Dr Charlton said.
"What's new today is that automation is affecting predominantly white-collar jobs more and more than it ever has in the past."
Studies have shown two-thirds of the shift away from automatable tasks will be driven by people changing the way they work, not changing jobs.
Source: AlphaBeta, O*Net, ABS

It is a trend evident in legal and paralegal circles where the more mundane functions are increasingly handed over to artificial intelligence (AI) platforms.
"The reason you do that is very simple — [it] is that people in business are very frustrated that the traditional mode of receiving legal services, and this [automation] just delivers legal services faster and more cost effectively that we ever thought imaginable," said Andrew Mellett, CEO of software developer Plexus.
Mr Mellett took four years to develop the Plexus platform, which clients, including Medibank, Optus and Loreal, use for contract work.
"The huge amount of work that is done in law firms is frankly not interesting and lawyers are very talented and intelligent people," he said.
"What's exciting for us is that we are able to create career paths that people are far more engaged and excited to come to work each day."
Mr Mellett said the increase in productivity has not come at the expense of legal jobs. In fact, it is the obverse — he's hiring.
"A lot of these roles are a blend between consulting, law, technology, client services and so we have to come up with new job descriptions new job titles," he said.
If Australian firms embraced automation to the same extent as peer economies, productivity growth could increase by over 50 per cent.
Source: Compustat, AlphaBeta, O*Net, ABS
One such job is that of young lawyer, Dougal Stevenson, who has been retrained as a "legal knowledge engineer" at Plexus.
"My role in particular leverages AI in some aspects, it's really at the moment meant to support existing processes," Mr Stevenson said.
"So I don't think AI is going to take over jobs, it will certainly push out older jobs and create new jobs like mine."
While a tertiary degree is handy, there are other ways to future-proof job prospects.
"The best thing you can do as a worker is to make sure you're not doing something routine and repetitive and predictable," author and futurist Martin Ford said.
"Move into other areas, things that involve perhaps working more with people, or being creative."
Data scientists and robotic engineers have solid futures, advertising and teaching, food, and healthcare in particular nursing are regarded as safe as well.
Automating routine tasks will improve job satisfaction for 62 per cent of low-skilled workers.
Source: O*Net, ABS
Of course, no-one could deny that some workers would find themselves redundant.
"There's been just an enormous change in the seriousness that this issue is now associated with. You see economists, policy makers, people in universities, in the business world who are genuinely concerned about this," Mr Ford said.
Dr Charlton argued the nature of work is changing in a way that was improving the competitiveness of the economy but also creating more jobs that were good jobs.

However, that doesn't mean an open slather approach was the way to go, according to Dr Charlton.
"We have to work really hard to make sure that workers displaced by automation are reskilled, retrained and given new opportunities in different areas," he said.
"When machines do work that humans could do, that is a positive productivity shock in the language of economists. And if we get that shock right, then there's an up to $2 trillion dividend for the Australian economy over the next 15 years."
Workplace injuries will fall by 11 per cent as automation eliminates some of the most dangerous physical tasks in the economySource: AlphaBeta, O*Net, ABS
Back at his technology-driven law firm, Mr Mellett said the shock was less in the new, but more what's in store for the old.
"The flipside of that is there will be professionals and firms that don't evolve their offering and how they provide it and unfortunately that's not going to give them a bright future," he said.
This is final report of a three part special by The Business and Business PM which looks at how automation will reshape the Australian workforce.
Millionaire art provocateur and professional gambler David Walsh has officially unveiled his grand expansion vision for his Hobart art gallery MONA.

Mr Walsh, the founder of the Museum Of Old And New Art (MONA), also flagged a move north for the annual Festival Of Music and Art (FOMA) event, which will in future be held in Launceston — if the Government agrees to help finance the shift.
Appearing at a lunch for Tasmania's tourism industry yesterday, Mr Walsh unveiled his plans for his gallery's "next phase of growth", which includes what MONA described in a statement as "early designs for the proposed 172-room, five-star hotel", known as HOMO, at Berriedale, north of Hobart.
"It's very simple really. We like building stuff. So far it has gone pretty well for us, and hopefully also for our communities," he said ahead of the event.
"This time, some may think it's gotten a little out of hand - the excavation alone is more than four times the size of that for the museum - but we seem to have some support, the plans have turned out pretty well, and we can't rest on our laurels for ever."
"The heart of MONA is chance."
In the statement, Mr Walsh said "the build of HOMO is expected to take approximately three years from commencement and will create 300 new full-time construction jobs. When open, HOMO will deliver an additional 120 full-time jobs on an ongoing basis".
"The proposed HOMO [HOtel MOna] development plan is yet to be submitted to Glenorchy City Council. A comprehensive consultation process with the public will be held at the same time," the statement read.

The announcement plans include a mention of "Monaco" - a "private, members-only, high-limits, poker machine-free facility for non-Tasmanians".
"Unlike the principles applied to the design of most casinos, Monaco would be designed as an 'anti-casino' and act as an outlet for art and design," the statement said.
Mr Walsh has previously said having a casino on the MONA premises "might make it a little easier to pay for all this".

Mr Walsh, whose annual Dark Mofo mid-winter festival enjoyed record patronage amid controversy over the Hermann Nitsch 150.Action show, is also behind a $2-billion redevelopment proposal at Hobart's Macquarie Point precinct, with a focus on Tasmania's colonial past and conflict with the original Aboriginal inhabitants not to the liking of some, including Hobart's Lord Mayor.
MONA had also asked for government funding to move FOMA, MONA's summer festival, to Launceston.
In a statement, Violent Femme's member and festival curator Brian Ritchie said "the festival's original 10-year plan - to change the culture in Hobart - has come to fruition ahead of schedule".
"We'd like to embark upon a new creative journey - to relocate to Launceston in search of new challenges, new collaborations, fresh partnerships and novel creative models.
"We want to make it bigger, better, more creative, more diverse and more famous [and by famous we mean infamous]," Ritchie said.

The images of Mr Walsh's plans were put to the Hobart audience on social media, with not all taken by the bold design.
"I don't get it," Breeanna said. "The current MONA building was built with great attention to making it fit in with the profile of the land and blended in. Now he wants to build that monstrosity and ruin the whole site?"
Wendy said the design "looks disgusting and doesn't fit the Tasmanian aesthetic".
But Charles countered with "that is its strength".
"Good on him, let him do as he pleases. He is single-handedly driving our economy without trashing the state," Andrew said.
"Is that a shopping trolley!" asked Jason.
"What an atrocious looking piece of crap," was Shani's verdict.
"For all those who are complaining it is an 'ugly' proposal I'd argue that any comments about it spoiling the landscape or view fail to remember that we have the lovely zinc works, Incat, the Marine Board building to name but a few," said Nicholas.
"Which for the life of me I cannot figure out how they were built in the city of naysayers", he added.


Australia's biggest miner has joined calls for a substantial overhaul of the way GST revenue is distributed to the states, warning the current structure is stifling the national economy.
BHP's submission to a Productivity Commission review called for a portion of mining royalties to be quarantined from the GST distribution formula, arguing it would broaden the economy and generate more investment in the minerals sector.
BHP's position is in line with what other miners have suggested and WA has also argued for it to be implemented, in a bid to improve its low share of GST revenue.
In its submission to the commission's inquiry, BHP warned the existing structure was serving as a disincentive to states from growing their mining industries and therefore harming the national economy.
"Over time, this is likely to result in less investment in the resources sector than would otherwise be the case," the submission stated.
"This translates to lost opportunity for jobs [including flow-on opportunities for other businesses that support the resources sector], less activity in regional communities and in turn, a less productive, efficient and robust national economy."
Its submission states that changing policy to encourage new resource projects could create hundreds of thousands of jobs over a 12-year period.
The submission, written by senior BHP executive Mike Henry, supported the Minerals Council of Australia's suggestion a quarter of mining royalties be exempt from the GST formula while introducing a safety net to protect smaller states from losing revenue.
Such a change would be expected to see WA's share improve, from a level that is much lower than any other state.
The WA Nationals dismissed BHP's submission as an attempt to distract from the party's calls for a substantial tax increase on the large miners.
The Nationals have lobbied for BHP to be charged $5 per tonne, on top of existing taxes and royalties, for each tonne of iron ore mined in WA in an effort to fix the state's budget.
The mining lobby ran a multi-million-dollar campaign against that proposal during the recent WA election campaign and Nationals MP Terry Redman said, if BHP really wanted GST reform, it would do something similar on that issue.
"[The submission] is a wet lettuce leaf compared to the campaign that was run against the Nationals in the last election," Mr Redman said.
"I'd like to see them stump up, put some resources in and run a serious campaign for Western Australia on the GST debate."
WA has led the calls for the GST distribution system to be reformed, after seeing its allocation drop to just 34 per cent of what would be its per capita share.
WA receives by far the lowest per capita share, but other states which fare better under the current system have strongly resisted calls for change.
Earlier this year, the Federal Government ordered the Productivity Commission to examine how the existing distribution system was impacting the national economy - sparked in part by WA's complaints.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull previously promised to introduce a "floor", with no state's share able to fall below that level, but has since said that will only happen once WA's portion improves under the current formula.
The Productivity Commission is due to report back by January 2018.
Volvo plans to build only electric and hybrid vehicles starting in 2019, making it the first major automaker to abandon cars and SUVs powered solely by the internal combustion engine.

Chief executive Hakan Samuelsson said the move was dictated by customer demand. It means that in two years, all new Volvo vehicles will have some form of electric propulsion.
The announcement comes as the global auto industry slowly moves towards electric-powered vehicles after more than a century of using engines that burn only fossil fuels.
Even though sales are a fraction of conventional autos, companies must sell them to meet fuel economy and emissions regulations.
In some markets, electric vehicles are seeing increased demand.
Yet, the transition to fully electric vehicles will take years. Although Tesla Inc. announced a $46,000 electric car for the masses and General Motors Co. is selling the all-electric Chevy Bolt for a similar price, less-expensive hybrids are likely to sell more at least in the short run.
Other automakers are likely to follow Volvo's announcement in a few years, with luxury automakers leading the way, senior analyst for Navigant Research Sam Abuelsamid said.
"I think we'll probably see most of the premium brands do the same thing in roughly the same time frame," he said.
In order to meet government fuel-economy requirements worldwide, automakers are developing more hybrid systems.
Many are 48-volt "mild hybrids" that assist a gas engine to move a car to make it more efficient, improving gas mileage by 10 or 15 per cent, Mr Abuelsamid said.
Such systems generate enough electricity to allow automakers to move functions, such as air conditioners and water and oil pumps, to electric power, getting rid of mechanical belts that are a drag on the engine.
Those systems can run only when needed, and that can save another 2 or 3 per cent on fuel consumption.
European luxury brands, such as Audi and Mercedes-Benz, are already rolling out mild hybrid cars in Europe.
All manufacturers are moving towards more hybrids, but the transition to 100 per cent electric vehicles is still years away, said Darren Jukes, head of industrial products for accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.
"I don't think we're seeing the end of combustion engines just yet," he said.
Volvo, which is based in Sweden but owned by Chinese firm Geely, will launch five fully electric cars between 2019 and 2021.
AP
A big rebound in coal and LNG shipments in the wake of Cyclone Debbie has boosted Australia's trade surplus to $2.5 billion in May.
The result was well ahead of forecasts and a 2650 per cent increase on April's surplus which was revised down to a wafer thin $90 million.
The value of exports surged, in seasonally adjusted terms, by 9 per cent to $32.8 billion, while imports edged up by just 1 per cent to $30.3 billion.
The rise in coal exports offset a decline in the value of iron shipments.
Overall, the value of coal exports rose by 62 per cent to $5 billion in May, with hard coking coal - used in steel production - up 180 per cent.

The value of LNG exports rose by 23 per cent to $423 million, with a 29 per cent increase in volume more than offsetting a 3 per cent slide in price.
The value of iron shipments fell by 7 per cent, reflecting lower prices while volumes were reasonably steady.
Rural goods also enjoyed a stronger month, up 3 per cent or $118 million to $4.2 billion, with the bulk of the lift coming from cereal shipments which rose by 15 per cent or $116 million.
The import side of the ledger was more stable.
Tourism rose to 2 per cent to $4.3 billion, while the value of consumption goods arriving rose by 1 per cent, despite falls in food and electrical goods imports.
Capital goods imports fell 5 per cent, largely due to a drop in the delivery of civil aircraft.
ANZ's David Plank says combining the May and April results, the trade balance is still down from its average in the first quarter.
"This suggests another negative contribution from net exports in Q2," Mr Plank noted.
Ben Jarman, from J.P Morgan, said the trade balance will continue to be buffeted by multiple forces for the next couple of years.
"The choppy unwind of earlier commodity price gains is ongoing, making the terms of trade a drag in coming reports, while the increase in iron ore inventories in China is also a concern on the demand front," Mr Jarman said.
"LNG output by contrast is scheduled to skyrocket as projects are finished and contract delivery is finalized.
"Still, we think this chop is mostly a distraction from the perspective of the broader economy's performance, given the sector keeps shrinking its local cost base and as swings in trade profits will be offset by repatriation of profits to foreign owners,"  Mr Jarman noted.

Passed in without a formal bid. Not even a dummy bid.

It is an irony not lost on the Fairfax Media board as it put the business up for auction, hoping an outsized return would be delivered by its most valuable piece of real estate, the Domain property advertising portal.
Things had looked promising. It appeared genuine buyers were circling.
By the time US private equity firm Hellman and Friedman put in an extremely conditional offer, topping a bid from another private equity firm, TPG, the board was looking like getting around $2.9 billion - a price most likely above its tightly guarded reserve.
TPG and its partners from the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan told Fairfax's chair Nick Falloon, "Thanks, but no thanks."
Hellman and Friedman wandered off before the auction too. Its interest has not been completely extinguished, but its failure to make the deadline is hardly promising.

"Done, all done." No need for the auctioneers from Macquarie Capital to nip inside and check vendor instructions. The champagne was put back in the fridge.
There was no clear reason why TPG walked. Private equity requires high internal rates of return - somewhere in the range of 20 per cent - to pull out the cheque book.
It typically loads businesses up with debt and needs strong organic growth in the business to convince the next buyer there is still some money to be made.
With private equity there's always a next buyer in mind, or sometimes a receiver when things go badly.
Clearly the numbers just didn't add up.
Fairfax concluded TPG simply didn't want to buy 100 per cent of the business. Domain was fine, but demands for a commitment to support quality journalism weren't going to be fulfilled easily or cheaply.
So what does Fairfax do now?
The simple answer is hit Ctrl Z and go back to Plan A.
That means dressing up Domain for a partial sale and renovating the traditional print business in the stark, minimalist, downsized style of 21st century media survival bunkers.

The trading update Fairfax dropped earlier this week, along with its unhappy news about the bidders walking away, confirmed a well established trend.
Domain's revenue stream grew by 10 per cent in the six past months.
Domain's digital growth of 22 per cent even outstrips that of its bigger rival REA. It is an extremely strong effort, only dragged down by a steep decline in Domain's print-based sales.
The traditional print and radio businesses were all downgraded from previous guidance, again.
Fairfax's Plan A is based retaining a controlling 60-to-70 per cent stake in the Domain business and cutting costs.
The restructuring has already started. Since May, redundancy notices have been handed to 125 journalists, or roughly one-in-four in metro newsrooms.
Senior analyst at broking house Morgans, Ivor Ries, said it is more a financial exercise than a long term strategic plan.
Mr Ries knows a thing or two about Fairfax, having been one of the select few senior business journalists who have written the AFR's esteemed Chanticleer column.
He now scrutinises information technology and online media businesses - the very ones, like REA, devouring Fairfax's profitability.
"Fairfax sells 30 or 40 per cent of Domain, it redirects a big pile of cash back into the Fairfax company. It doesn't solve the problem of declining revenues in print," he concluded.
"It brings cash in the door and it will be able to operate for a long time, but that's about it."
So what does that mean for print's future?
"If the print business continues at the current trend, it (Fairfax) will have to keep cutting and keep making redundancies," Mr Ries said.
That's a view shared by Citi's media analyst, David Kaynes, who argued Fairfax will have a tough job to keep print in the black.
Mr Kaynes said it was most likely the rapidly declining earnings profile and the potential restructuring and redundancy charges needed to keep newspapers in positive territory that soured TPG's desire to buy the entire business.

"Cost savings of $30 million for financial year 2018 should keep the division in positive territory next year despite double-digit revenue declines," Mr Kaynes wrote in a note to clients.
"However, after restructuring charges - $15m this year - net cash flow is negligible, and Fairfax will need to repeat those same cost savings every year."
Mr Kaynes said Fairfax is unlikely to stabilise revenue in the next few years.
"We also see ACM and NZ Media following a similar trajectory, although both are a few years behind Metro Media," he added.
"For the media (newspaper) divisions our core concern is the rapidly deteriorating cash flow profiles."
The price multiple Citi places on Fairfax's newspaper business is just one quarter of value it applies to overseas peers given concerns that restructuring charges consume most of the free cash generated each year.
At least one broker said the end of private equity tyre kicking has created a buying opportunity for investors as Fairfax's share price tumbled around 20 per cent, back below $1.
But that investment idea is based entirely on getting in early for a slice of the Domain pie, rather than any hope of a print recovery.

Fraser McLeish, from Credit Suisse, said investors are likely to pay a premium for the strong growth opportunity potentially offered by Domain.
Punters have bid the News Corporation dominated rival REA to a market capitalisation of around $8.5 billion over the years.
Domain is a strong number 2, with a large presence in the key Sydney and Melbourne markets and its sales - in the digital space at least - are outstripping REA.
Following the trading update, Mr McLeish bumped up his Domain valuation to $2.35 billion.
Just what future investors, keen to make a quid on an online real estate portal, think about subsidising a struggling newspaper business is open to question.
The other big question is just how much more whittling away the traditional newspaper business can take before it snaps.
The Australian share market is headed for a higher open this morning when the ASX opens for business.

Most of the world's major stock markets - in the US, Europe and Asia - are providing positive leads.
It seems they have recovered from the initial anxiety over the geopolitical tensions relating to North Korea.
On Tuesday, the rogue state launched its latest missile test, which its leader which Kim Jong-un said was his "gift" to the Americans for their Independence Day holiday.
Technology shares boosted Wall Street, while the worst performer (by far) was its energy sector.
Shares in oil and gas companies were weighed down by a sharp plunge in oil prices.
After rebounding in the last eight trading sessions, the price of Brent crude has once again plunged - by around 4 per cent overnight.
Despite its commitment to reducing the global oversupply of oil, exports by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) rose for the second straight month in June, according to data from Thomson Reuters Oil Research.
Last month, OPEC exported 25.92 million barrels per day (bpd) - this is 450,000 bpd higher than May, and 1.9 million bpd more than a year ago.
The lift in exports happened despite OPEC member countries agreeing on a deal to cut production until March next year.
Nigeria and Libya, which both exempt from the production-cut deal, continued to produce more oil last month.
But Russia - one of the main non-OPEC producers which agreed to enter into the deal - is reportedly refusing to make further production cuts.
It is expected to oppose any proposals for deeper cuts at OPEC ministerial meeting later this month.
The minutes of last month's US Federal Reserve board meeting were released overnight.
They revealed that Fed policymakers disagreed amongst with other on their outlook for inflation, and how it might affect the future pace of interest rate rises.
Several officials wanted to start cutting the central bank's large portfolio of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities by late-August.
But others preferred to wait until later this year.
US shares did not change much after investors digested these minutes.
Last month's Fed meeting resulted in a 0.25 per cent interest rate hike - its third time in six months - which signals the Fed's confidence that the US economy is improving.
In terms of economic news, the Bureau of Statistics' trade balance data for May will be released today.
These figures keep track of the difference in value between the nation's imports and exports during the month.
Economists, polled by Reuters, have predicted a $1 billion trade surplus as the May result.
Jobs and exports from existing coal regions will be decimated if the Galilee Basin is developed for coal mining, according to new research.
Globally renowned resource analytics firm Wood Mackenzie, which conducted the research, is forecasting massive reductions in future coal output from the NSW Hunter Valley and significant falls in Queensland's Bowen and Surat basins.
The Federal and Queensland governments have been stressing the job gains and economic benefits if coal mining goes ahead in the Galilee Basin, making it the first new coal region to be exploited in 50 years. Both governments are prepared to back investment with subsidies.
However, the new research suggests that while the development of the Galilee Basin would expand coal exports overall, it would come at a severe cost to jobs and economies in other regions.
According to its findings:
The modelling was commissioned by The Infrastructure Fund, which owns a 50 per cent stake in the privatised Port of Newcastle.
It compares a "no Galilee Basin coal" scenario to the impact of 150 million tonnes of Galilee Basin coal production being put on the world market.

Jonathan Van Rooyen, the general manager of investments at The Infrastructure Fund, said the impact for the Port of Newcastle "is pretty devastating".
"I'm an investor, not a politician, but it seems a perverse outcome when you are taking jobs in one part of the country and promoting them there and displacing them or destroying them in other parts of the country," he told the ABC.
"The addition of significant new coal supply from a new basin will inevitably displace coal production, and coal jobs, in existing coal basins in NSW and Southern Queensland.
"To the extent that the Adani mine lives up to its promise to be automated 'from pit to port' it is likely that substituting a million tonnes of coal production in the Galilee for a million tonnes of coal production from NSW will result in a net reduction in jobs."

Many environmentalists and financial analysts have downplayed the prospects of Adani's mine going ahead and the Galilee Basin being developed.
If Wood Mackenzie's base case forecast is on the money, they should think again.
"We forecast about 120 million tonnes to come from the Galilee Basin, possibly up to 150 million tonnes," Wood Mackenzie's head of mines and metals consulting Dominic Tisdell said.
"That will mean the main development for thermal coal will happen in the Galilee Basin and not as much in other areas such as the Surat, the Hunter Valley or Indonesia.
"In the Hunter Valley, we expect that most of the existing mines will operate for the terms of their natural lives — many of the mines are world class and will operate into the 2030s and beyond.
"What it will mean though is that new mines … will probably be delayed in preference to new developments in the Galilee Basin."
In Queensland's Bowen Basin, exploitation of metallurgical coal for steel-making will continue apace, but output of thermal coal would be 20 to 30 million tonnes lower than it would be without the Galilee Basin coming online.
But Mr Tisdell said Australia's coal exports would be better off "net about 50 million tonnes" with the Galilee Basin than without.

The Infrastructure Fund bought the Port of Newcastle in conjunction with China Merchants for $1.75 billion in 2014.
The hit to output from the Port of Newcastle would mean lower returns for people with superannuation monies invested in the asset.
"We are used to modelling economic and financial risks," Mr Van Rooyen said.
"But this is sovereign risk. The Government is preparing to give subsidies of up to a billion dollars to open up a new coal region at a time of flat world demand.
"Put simply, either the $1 billion loan to Adani will have a significant impact on coal production, and jobs — in the Hunter Valley, Bowen Basin and Surat Basin — or the business case for the Adani rail line is deeply flawed."
But the Minister for Resources and Northern Australia, Matt Canavan, has previously pointed out that coal infrastructure has been subsidised by the Government in the past, including the rail line that supplies the Port of Newcastle, which was built by government and expanded with government money just a few years ago.
With enthusiastic Federal Government support, Adani has sought a loan of up to a billion dollars from the Government's Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility.
The Queensland Government has offered Adani unlimited water rights and it will not have to pay mining royalties during the initial years of production.
However, the financial hurdles facing companies with control of mining leases in the basin raise doubts about Wood Mackenzie's forecast scenario.
Adani, for example, is yet to get finance for its Carmichael mine and Clive Palmer, whose Waratah Coal owns leases in the Galilee Basin, has been beset by financial problems.
India's debt-ridden GVK group, which owns three tenements in a joint-venture with Gina Rinehart's Hancock, defaulted on debt repayments earlier this year and has faced the prospect of forced asset sales.
Financial assistance for Tasmania's major industrials will be on the table if gas negotiations continue to break down and result in massive price hikes, the Energy Minister says.
The contract for the transportation of gas across Bass Strait expires at the end of the year but discussions between Hydro Tasmania and the pipe's owners, Tasmanian Gas Pipeline (TGP), have broken down.
TGP chief executive Lindsay Ward hit out at Hydro, accusing it of being "disinterested" in negotiating and threatened to put up costs by 95 per cent if they cannot agree.
There are fears that could lead to mass job losses at the state's major industrials such as Bell Bay Aluminium and Nyrstar, which employ thousands of Tasmanians and are the biggest users of gas aside from the Tamar Valley Power Station.
State Energy Minister Matthew Groom said price hikes of 95 per cent would be unacceptable, and the Government would intervene.
"If we needed to provide financial assistance to a major user to avoid major job losses in the state, we would do that," he said.
He said TGP's current contract offer was not reasonable.
"At the moment, the deal that presents, from all advice I've received, is not in the best interests of the state," he said.
"We're talking about tens of millions of dollars here.
"It is important that we get a fair outcome. We can't just write a blank check to a monopoly provider."
TGP argued it had put a reasonable offer on the table, that would bring down costs for the Tamar Valley Power Station by 45 per cent.
Opposition spokesman Scott Bacon blamed Mr Groom for the breakdown in commercial negotiations.
"No one thinks a 95 per cent increase in gas prices is going to help our major industrials," he said.
"What this shows is Matthew Groom has had three years to sort out this issue, he's done nothing to put the minds of the major industrials at rest.
"It's just not good enough."
Four Arab nations seeking to isolate Qatar over its alleged support for extremist groups have been angered by what they say is a "negative" response by the tiny Gulf nation to their demands for ending crisis in the region.

Ministers from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt met in Cairo to weigh possible further sanctions against Qatar in a dispute that has aroused deep concern among Western allies of the region's ruling dynasties.

Doha's response, they said, was "not serious" and betrayed Qatar's "failure" to realise the gravity of the situation.
Qatar's Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani maintained that the list of 13 demands, delivered on June 22, was unacceptable.
The demands included the downgrading of ties with Iran, the closure of the Al-Jazeera news network and cutting support for the Muslim Brotherhood.
Egypt's foreign minister, Sameh Shukri, told reporters on Wednesday Qatar's response to demands was "negative on the whole".
It did not "lay the foundations for Qatar's abandonment of the policies it pursues. It's a position that does not realise the gravity of the situation," he added.
The ministers did not say what their next steps would be — that, they explained, would be announced after further consultations. They will meet next in Bahrain, but date has yet to be set.
"We hope wisdom will prevail and Qatar will eventually make the right decisions," Mr Shukri added.
The four Arab states broke off diplomatic and transport ties with Qatar on June 5, accusing Doha of aiding terrorism and courting Iran — a regional rival of the Gulf states which shares interest in a gas field with Doha.
Qatar, whose international diplomatic and commercial profile has risen dramatically in 20 years, driven largely by gas revenues, denies the charges.
Officials say the demands are so draconian they suspect they were never seriously meant for negotiation and were instead meant to hobble Doha's sovereignty.
German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, on a tour of Gulf countries, said he was cautiously optimistic the feuding countries would reach a solution once they met for talks.
But it is also possible that it will continue to be difficult for some days, he told reporters in Kuwait, where he met with the Gulf state's ruler who is mediating in the crisis.
He said Kuwait's mediation, backed by the United States, had already achieved a lot.

Qatar faces further isolation and possible expulsion from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), a regional economic and security cooperation body founded in 1981, if its response to the demands fails to satisfy the Arab states meeting in Cairo.

The Dubai-based al-Bayan newspaper said in an editorial that all indications suggested Qatar had "belittled joint Gulf action and the Arab block".
"Doha chose to enter into a dark tunnel," it said.
"We are today at a new situation after the Qatari rejection, and it is a rejection that will not pass without a price, and Qatar alone bears responsibility for this reaction."
Qatar's response to the demands has not been made public.
Qatar has already made clear that, while seeking settlement, it is preparing for a more protracted dispute.
Doha announced on Tuesday it planned to raise Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) production capacity by 30 per cent in the next five years.
Qatar's relatively limited trade ties with other Gulf states — largely food and construction exports — could also soften the effects of extended regional isolation.

ABC/Reuters
There is no reason why South Australia's steelmaking business, Arrium, cannot once again become a profitable company once its sale goes through, its future owner says.
Arrium, which runs the steelworks in Whyalla, is being sold to British company Liberty House with final sale approval expected by the end of the month.
Chief executive Sanjeev Gupta said the plant was fundamentally sound and Liberty House, which is part of London-based GFG Alliance, will be making investments into the steelworks.
"The steelworks fundamentally is a sound plant, it does need certain investments which we will undertake as quickly as we can," he told ABC News.
"Fundamentally there is nothing wrong with the steelworks that is there.
"It has its own iron ore, it has infrastructure, it has its own port, so there is no reason why this business cannot be profitable and we intend to make it one."
Mr Gupta also reiterated Arrium's current workforce would be safe.

"As far as workers are concerned, and we've stated this previously, my group and my family has never undertaken an investment which requires any turnaround in terms of the workforce or any hard redundancies.
"So there won't be any in Whyalla either."
He said the company had "a very good market share" adding to its potential profitability.
"First of all it's the only producer of long steel in the whole country, so it has a very good place within the marketplace," he said.
"It has all the natural resources, it has its own scrap-collection processing in the east coast, in Whyalla it has its own iron ore, it has its own port, so it's got all the infrastructure, all the attributes, which are required to make it a successful business.
"So there is absolutely no reason with the right management, the right care and the right investments that the business cannot be profitable."
Mr Gupta said the deal had not been finalised and that his company's model wasn't to seek large sums of money from governments.
The iron-ore giant went into voluntary administration in 2016, with debts of more than $4 billion.
A Korean consortium, headed by Newlake Alliance Management and JB Asset Management, and supported by POSCO, was selected as the preferred bidder in June, before being beaten by Liberty House.
Mr Gupta told the ABC's AM program he also had ambitions to invest in renewable energy, including pumped storage hydro electricity, in South Australia.
Pumped storage stores energy from wind and solar for later use.
He also said with a small upgrade to the co-generation plant at the site would create an energy surplus.
"One great opportunity for Whyalla is pumped storage because the mine pits which are now empty can be used to store water and that can be used then to produce energy when there is a lack of energy," he said.
"Whyalla itself is not short of energy, it should not be. It is right now, but it should not be."
Whyalla residents are celebrating as the sale of the city's biggest employer secures the steelmaking South Australian city's future.
Administrators KordaMentha on Wednesday announced GFG Alliance's Liberty House had signed an agreement to buy Arrium's suite of companies, including the Whyalla Steelworks.
Whyalla Tourism Focus Group chairwoman Barbara Derham, from the Foreshore Motor Inn, said the news has been welcomed among the accommodation industry in Whyalla.
"My phone hasn't stopped ringing. I've had texts, I've had phone calls from other accommodation houses saying what great news," she said.
"I was here in the boom days, I've been here since 1968, in the city, more than 40 years, and I've seen the ups and downs and this has been the most difficult time for everyone."
Ms Derham said business had started to pick up again, but news of the sale should boost confidence.
She said it was good news that Liberty House was the successful bidder.
"I have met some of those guys, they're delightful people. They've had meals with us in the restaurant that I run and I think they'll be a great asset to this city all round."

Whyalla Chamber of Commerce president Ron Hay said the announcement of Liberty House over the South Korean consortium POSCO — which was previously mentioned as the preferred bidder — was a surprise.
"This is a bit of a different turn of events, but it is very, very positive news for this community," he said.
"It will start to bring back certainty and confidence and the ability to move forward with our day-to-day lives and business opportunities."
Mr Hay said the announcement had ended a difficult time for the community.
"Whyalla's been fairly well in a limbo for the last 15 months or so with what we'd term an uncertain future," he said.
Mr Hay said the Chamber of Commerce would work with the new owner to see how local businesses could support the steelworks into the future.
Whyalla Century 21 real estate principal Wayne Foran said the sale should return some confidence to the struggling housing market.
"It probably hasn't hit us any harder than any other industry in Whyalla, but it certainly has had a large effect on real estate in Whyalla," he said.

"House prices have certainly fallen a fair way. The rental prices have dropped as tenants see the opportunity to move from one house to another and pay a lower rent."
Mr Foran said even those willing to buy struggled to get loans approved.
"Banks have been very reluctant to lend here for home loans in Whyalla, and I guess you can't blame them with the major employer in town under administration with a huge cloud hanging over its head," he said.
Mr Foran said the news marked a turnaround for Whyalla's economy.
"It's been really tough. It doesn't matter if you talk to real estate agents, newsagents, coffee places," he said.
"The people of Whyalla had largely really stopped spending money, so there hasn't been that money in the community."
Samaritan College principal Damian Judd said the school community had been hit hard by the uncertainty surrounding the steelworks.
"There was simply a lot of people who lost work directly from the steelworks, but then other businesses associated with the steelworks and many of them had to leave town," he said.
"Over an 18-month period, seven out of every 10 children had to leave our school, so that was around 90–100 kids over a period there who were actually leaving town."
Mr Judd said the private school's numbers were also affected as people opted for public education to keep school fees down.
He said the sale was positive news for the city.
"For someone living and working here and having children who grew up here, you wanted to see that it meant something a bit more stable for the future and even expanding," he said.
"It appears that the successful bidder is willing to put security into the town, which is great."
Casual workers have won the right to request permanent employment if they work regular hours over a year, under a ruling by the industrial umpire.
Union leaders launched a Fair Work Commission claim for the mandatory conversion of all casual staff to permanent positions after six months' regular work with one employer.
But Fair Work has instead agreed to give workers covered under 85 modern awards the right to request full or part-time employment status after 12 months.
"If the casual employment turns out to be long-term in nature, and to be of sufficient regularity ... then we consider it to be fair and necessary for the employee to have access to a mechanism by which the casual employment may be converted to an appropriate form of permanent employment," the full bench found.
Employers can refuse the request on reasonable grounds, including that it would require a significant adjustment to a casual employee's hours of work or they could foresee their position would no longer exist in the next 12 months.
Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) secretary Sally McManus said the ruling was a small step towards addressing an "epidemic of insecure work" and the casualisation of the country's workforce.
"Australian unions fought for this improvement but it only plugs one small hole in a nationwide crisis," she said.
"Too many employers have been abusing the term casual and use it as a business model to drive down wages."
The unions' claim was designed to give casual employees who are effectively permanent but miss out on entitlements such as sick leave, annual leave and other benefits greater job security.
Workers in the hospitality, retail, manufacturing and agriculture industries are among those covered by the judgment.
The commission rejected the unions' push to impose a minimum four-hour shift for casual and part-time staff and to ban employers from taking on extra part-time or casual workers unless existing employees had been offered more hours.
Employers condemned the unions' campaign, warning the change would jeopardise tens of thousands of jobs and punish some workers.
Australian Industry Group chief executive Innes Willox said the ruling would reduce flexibility for some employers, but welcomed the rejection of the unions' most "damaging" claims.
"The unions' claims, if they had been accepted, would have wreaked havoc on Australia's labour market," he said.
Mr Willox also accused unions of making "bogus" claims about the casualisation of the workforce.
"The level of casual employment in Australia has been around 20 per cent for 19 years, with no sign of the level increasing.
"Union arguments about the 'casualisation' of the Australian workforce are a myth."
Unions have also launched a Federal Court challenge to a separate Fair Work ruling slashing Sunday and public holiday penalty rates for hospitality, fast food, retail and pharmacy workers.
ACTU president Ged Kearney said the cuts that came into effect last weekend would cost some of the country's lowest paid workers thousands of dollars a year.
"We are going to fight this all the way until this decision is reversed," she said.
The court has agreed to fast-track the appeal, which is likely to be heard by a full bench of judges in September or October.
Too many individuals and small businesses are making excessive tax deductions and the Tax Office is threatening to come after them.
The ATO particularly wants to target taxpayers with attitudes like: "Everyone cheats a bit, so I can too"; "others won't care if I cheat"; and, "I claim deductions (legit or not) to make sure I get a refund".
That was the message conveyed by Taxation Commissioner Chris Jordan in his speech to the National Press Club in Canberra.
He is determined to minimise "the tax gap" as much as possible.
The tax gap is an estimate of the difference between how much tax the ATO collects, and what it would have collected if every taxpayer paid all their taxes in compliance with the law.
While many people say big businesses do not pay their fair share of taxes, the Commissioner's view is that there are significant gaps in policing the smaller players.
"There are likely to be bigger gaps in each of those markets [individuals and small businesses] than in the large market," he told the gathered reporters.
"The results of our random audits and risk based audits are showing many errors and over-claiming for work-related expenses."
He explained the overclaiming can be due to legitimate mistakes, carelessness, recklessness and fraud.
"In 2014-15, more than $22 billion was claimed for work related expenses," he said.
"While each of the individual amounts over-claimed is relatively small, the sum and overall revenue impact for the population involved could be significant.
"In the vicinity of, or even higher than, the large market tax gap of $2.5 billion – and that's just for this category of deductions, work-related expenses".
Following his speech, Mr Jordan answered questions about common types of overclaiming tax deductions - for example, property rentals.
"There is about $40 billion of rental income, and $44 billion of rental deductions," he observed.
The problem with rental deductions exceeding incomes is that "it results in about $3.6 billion net rental loss".
The bulk of those deductions would be mortgage interest repayments and depreciation allowances, although in its most recent budget the Federal Government moved to crackdown on some commonly exploited areas of depreciation as well as landlord travel deductions.
Mr Jordan also explained that too many people illegitimately claim laundry expenses.
"There are a lot of people - 6.3 million - who claim laundry expenses," he noted.
"You don't have to substantiate $150 worth of laundry. Lots of people claim that, you might say, 'So what?'
"It actually adds up to more than that large company."
The point he made was "the individuals market [has] a fairly significant potential gap that swamps the large market - individually small, but collectively large."
"Cash only" shops will also be targeted by the ATO's "Black Economy Taskforce", which will increase visits to locations which have a high proportion of such businesses.
But the commissioner stressed he has not relaxed his scrutiny on big businesses.
"We have to make sure we aren't just focused on one sector, the large corporates, we are not giving that up," Mr Jordan said.
"We feel like we have done a lot of work in the last three years in that space.
"We have the laws, the funding, the talent and the team is in place, but we need to recalibrate into these other areas of the cash economy and individuals overclaiming work-related expenses."
Tasmania has long promoted its capital Hobart as "the gateway" to the Antarctic, but how does it compare to other cities that make the same claim?

Four other locations, Christchurch (New Zealand), Punta Arenas (Chile), Ushuaia (Argentina) and Cape Town (South Africa) are also known as Antarctic gateway cities.
A new Australian-based research project has begun looking at the ecological, political and cultural connections between three of the cities — Christchurch, Punta Arenas and Hobart.
The aim is to create a profile of each place which can then be used to inform polar programs and local councils.
Associate Professor Juan Francisco Salazar, who is taking part in the project, said the challenge was working out how the cities could work together, but still benefit.
"All the cities compete, there's scarce resources and they need to develop their competitive advantages," he said.
"We're not going against that ... we want to see how they can use their advantages to collaborate with each other, it's a process of learning from each other."

Associate Professor Salazar said Hobart's advantage was the large presence of Antarctic science programs.
The Institute of Marine and Antarctic Studies, CSIRO, the Australian Antarctic Division, the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, and the Antarctic Climate and Ecosystems Cooperative Research Centre all operate out of Hobart.
"It's a scientific hub like nowhere else in the world," Associate Professor Salazar said.
"The integration between the public sector and the private sector in Hobart is excellent."


If you ask Hobart's Deputy Lord Mayor Ron Christie, the answer is an emphatic "yes".
"We've called ourselves the gateway to the Antarctic for many many years. We're proud to have that tag and we need to expand on it," he said.
Despite the five cities signing a statement of intent recognising their ability to join exploration into the benefits of academic and best practice exchange in 2009, it's the first time their relationships have been analysed in depth.
The Hobart City Council is contributing $20,000 cash plus $20,000 in-kind support to the project per annum until 2020.
But Mr Christie said the council's focus was making sure Hobart was number one.
"It's a competition isn't it?," he said.


A report commissioned by Tasmania's Polar Network showed the Antarctic sector contributed $180 million to the state's economy last financial year, through wages and logistics.
Tourism is also a contributor, Hobart hosted its first Australian Antarctic Festival last year.
Mr Christie said he believed there was scope to expand Antarctic tourism.
"It's a very sensitive issue too in terms of sustainability, I think its a Federal Government issue," he said.
"I know there's a lot of people who would like to go down there."


It is also a two-day sail for tourist cruise ships, compared to five days from Hobart.
Much like Hobart, Christchurch is home to Antarctic museums and visitor centres. It also has a reputation as a scientific hub.
The United States, Italy and South Korea base their Antarctic operations from New Zealand.
Christchurch even holds an Antarctic festival known as Icefest annually.
The study's Tasmanian leader, Institute of Marine and Antarctic Studies Associate Professor Elizabeth Leane, said she hoped the research would foster closer connections.
"At the moment, I don't think the cities think of themselves much in the relationship to each other, but they could that make a feature, being part of a southern rim," she said.
The Antarctic Cities project is set to take three years to complete, wrapping up in 2020.
Researchers are also keen to setup an Antarctic youth network as a way to connect future decision makers in other gateway cities.

The NSW Opposition Leader has accused Transport Minister Andrew Constance of misleading Parliament, after leaked confidential documents appear to contradict his claims the multi-billion-dollar Sydney light rail project is on time and on budget.
Cabinet in confidence documents obtained by the Opposition show that in March, the Government's own bureaucrats gave the on-time status of the project a red alert, which means it is not running on track.
The same report, from Infrastructure NSW, rates the cost status of the project amber, which means it is at risk of not being delivered within the approved budget.
Opposition Leader Luke Foley said Mr Constance had some explaining to do.
"On the face of it here, he's misled the Parliament in giving an assurance that this project is one time and on budget, when in fact it is neither on time, nor on budget," Mr Foley said.
"Of course, under our Westminster system, misleading the Parliament is a hanging offence for a minister."
But a spokeswoman for Mr Constance said he did not receive the report in question until May, two months after his statements to Parliament.
She said reports received prior to the Infrastructure NSW assessment had shown the project tracking on time and on budget, as had the latest report he had received at the end of June.
Mr Constance later tweeted: "I'll say it again… 'Sydney light rail is on time and on budget' #lazyluke."
Australians might be clustering in the rapidly growing capitals, but it seems they are also increasingly yearning for short breaks beyond big city limits.

New data released by the global accommodation giant Airbnb show half the platform's listings in Australia are now outside major cities.
The company's manager for Australia and New Zealand, Sam McDonagh, said Airbnb is now an "economic lifeline" for many in the bush.
"Airbnb's supporting more than 4,000 local jobs in regional communities," he said.
"Without the cost or delay of building any new hotels, Airbnb has made regional Australia more accessible and affordable than ever before."
According to a Deloitte report, Airbnb accommodated 2.1 million people across Australia in the 2015-16 financial year.
Airbnb says 56 per cent of all guest arrivals in 2017 across Australia were to listings outside the major cities.
Ron Hellyer, whose family home in Broken Hill in far western NSW is listed on Airbnb, said demand is strong.

"We haven't been empty since we listed. We have a combination of tourists and visitors — people on planes, trains and automobiles," he said.
"The majority of the Australian contingent absolutely don't like coming out here for a period of time looking at the four walls of a motel, and they absolutely want to know why you live where you live."
He said listing the property on Airbnb had also offered the couple a steady source of income now their five children have moved out of home.
"It's a good income to keep repairing the house," he said.
The flip side of Airbnb's expansion into regional areas has been increased competition for tourist dollars.
In NSW, the company's growth areas include Byron Bay, Nowra, Newcastle and Wollongong, while in Victoria the number of listings has grown along the Great Ocean Road.

In Queensland there are new listings popping up on the Gold Coast and in Far North Queensland, while growth in South Australia has been in Robe and Kingscote, and in Margaret River and Albany in WA.
Steve Old, from the Tasmanian Hospitality Association, said growth in Airbnb listings has had positive and negative effects.
"Airbnb brings not only some negatives for some of our hotel operators, it also brings positives to our restaurants and cafes," Mr Old said.
"But what's happening in parts of regional Tasmania at the moment is you've got operators struggling with all the regulations they're faced with.
"And then you've got other operators letting out their venues on Airbnb that are not paying the same regulatory costs."
"There's very much an uneven playing field and we've got to make sure we deal with that."
Billionaire media moguls Lachlan Murdoch and Bruce Gordon are launching a joint takeover bid for Network Ten.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) confirmed this morning that it has commenced a review of this proposed acquisition.
If the deal proceeds, it would see Illyria Nominees Television Pty Ltd and Birketu Pty Ltd each acquiring a 50 per cent stake of the embattled media network.
Birketu is the investment vehicle of Mr Gordon, which owns a 15 per cent of Ten's shares.
As for Mr Murdoch's company Illyria, its current stake is 7.5 per cent.
"While this transaction is dependent upon the passage of the media reform bill, it is appropriate that the ACCC begin its review of the proposed transaction that has been put to us by the parties," ACCC chairman Rod Sims said.
"The ACCC will assess the potential effect upon advertisers and upon competition within free-to-air television and between free-to-air television and Foxtel, particularly in relation to sport, given the holdings of the main players involved.
"However, an ACCC investigation does not mean that the transaction raises competition concerns, but that further consideration is required for the ACCC to reach a view."
Before Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon can legally takeover Ten, certain media ownership laws will first need to be changed.
The first law, being the "two out of three rule", prevents an individual or a company owning a newspaper, TV station and radio station in the same licence area.
Mr Murdoch currently owns radio and newspaper assets in markets where Ten gets broadcast.

If he were to take control of Ten, Mr Murdoch would then control all three forms of media - therefore breaching the "two-out-of-three rule".
As for the "reach rule", it prohibits a single TV broadcaster from reaching more than 75 per cent of the population.
This rule is a problem for Mr Gordon as he owns WIN Television, which broadcasts in regional areas.
If Mr Gordon were to control Ten, his reach would extend to metropolitan areas which would put him in breach of the "reach rule".
The Turnbull Government is seeking to overturn these rules with its media law reform bill.
But the bill has not yet been able to pass due to opposition from Labor and the government being unable to secure enough crossbench support.
As a temporary measure, the Government waived broadcasting licence fees for commercial free-to-air television and radio broadcasters last financial year.
Parliament is currently on recess and will not be able to debate this issue until it resumes on August 8.
The two bidders, along with fellow shareholder James Packer, had previously guaranteed a $200 million debt facility for the network, which would expire in December.
Ten went into voluntary administration in June - after Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon refused to guarantee an extended line of debt financing.
Since then, administrators KordaMentha have been running the network.
Ten was placed into receivership by the billionaire trio on Saturday.
Then on Monday, as expected, Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon teamed up with fellow shareholders - including Mr Packer - to guarantee a $30 million finance package which meant Ten had more time to find a buyer.
That amount was expected to keep Ten going until late-August.
The ACCC will undertake market inquires and invite submissions about the proposed acquisition of Ten.
The closing date for submissions from interested parties is July 24.
The competition regulator then expects to make a final decision, or publish a statement flagging any competition issues, on August 24.
Tasmania's major industrial users are facing gas price rises of up to 95 per cent as the relationship between Hydro Tasmania and the pipeline's owners breaks down.
Hydro Tasmania has a "take or pay" agreement with the Tasmanian Gas Pipeline (TGP) to import from Victoria across Bass Strait that expires at the end of the year.
TGP said it was unable to agree to terms with Hydro Tasmania for a gas supply contract for its Tamar Valley Power Station (TVPS), under which gas is supplied and priced to major Tasmanian industrial users.
The two parties have been negotiating unsuccessfully for months, prompting concerns from the big power users they will be hit with significant price rises.
Now experts say their fears appear to have been confirmed after TGP informed them prices would skyrocket by nearly 100 per cent.
It will be a difficult for the industrials — which employ thousands of people — to absorb such a huge price rise.
TGP chief executive Lindsay Ward said Hydro had been offered a 45 per cent discount on their previous deal but were not interested in settling.
"Our focus is on providing sensibly priced energy transportation to Tasmania, but unfortunately we've come to a point where Hydro is disinterested, they're not engaging and they're not prepared to negotiate in good faith," Mr Ward said.
He said as a result of "fruitless" negotiations, the major industrials would face a 95 per cent price hike.
"We don't believe Tamar Valley Power Station, via Hydro, want to do a deal," he said.
Mr Ward said the offer from TGP would result in a 45 per cent reduction in the current costs of running the TVPS, and would also bring "significantly increased operational flexibility".
"We're frustrated that when you have the Government's own energy taskforce saying a deal needs to be done, we've offered these significant savings and still Hydro aren't prepared to negotiate in good faith," he said.
"Hydro just seems intent on running a different agenda, that agenda is not in the best interests of Tasmania, it's not in the best interest of energy security and it doesn't support growth."
TGP said Hydro Tasmania represented about 75 per cent of its revenue for gas transportation to Tasmania and "effectively sets the price for all gas users in Tasmania".
"By not responding to being offered a 45 per cent discount on the previous agreement with TGP for TVPS, Hydro Tasmania is effectively compromising energy security in Tasmania."
But Hydro Tasmania chief executive Steve Davy said TGP's offer was not acceptable, and the parties may have to resort to arbitration.

"We've still working very closely with TGP to secure a good deal for the benefit of all Tasmanians," he said.
"I'm confident there will be arrangements for Tasmania's supply at the end of this year.
"The owners of the pipeline are very tough commercial operators, we've been very focused on making sure we get a deal that works well for all of Tasmania," he said.
"We don't accept that the offer they've made to us is acceptable for Tasmanians."
But Mr Ward disagreed.
"If they continue down that path, then prices will increase not only for major industrial customers but also for retailers," he said.
"If Hydro do come to the party then the major industrials do not need to be exposed to price rises."
TPG said if the offer to Hydro Tasmania had been accepted, the increases to major industrials would have been "minimal".
The Minerals and Energy Council's Wayne Bould said there could be consequences for small businesses and residents.
"Ultimately the businesses have the highest potential risk, certainly it affects mums and dads and small businesses and anyone else in the game," he said.
"Certainly mums and dads may be a little bit more flexible, but if they are going to be hit by 95 per cent increases the same as the larger businesses, then it's got to be a concern for everybody."
Mr Bould also said it was possible jobs were at risk.
"Ultimately, it could [be the case as] an increase in risk for a business puts jobs and investment decisions, and capital decisions and expansion decisions — and all of those things — at risk," he said.
But Mr Davey said such concern was unfounded.
"I think the speculation about job numbers affected have been grossly exaggerated, we are working very closely with customers to make sure we understand and mitigate the impacts on them," he said.
Energy Minister Matthew Groom said in a statement he wanted to "secure the best possible gas transportation arrangements for Tasmania".
"We continue to encourage all parties to negotiate in good faith and secure fair outcomes," he said.
"We stand in support of the major industrials on this issue and will continue to do everything we can in partnership with them to ensure Tasmania's interests are fully protected.
"The suggestion of major job losses is completely baseless."
Treasurer Peter Gutwein would not be drawn on the commercial negotiations when asked today.
"That's a commercial negotiation between Hydro and the Tasmanian Gas Pipeline, and I won't be commenting on that," Mr Gutwein said.
"There is a process we are working through.
"Obviously we want the best deal for Tasmanian gas customers."
South Australian steelmaking business Arrium is to be sold to a British company and not the Korean consortium identified as the preferred bidder, the state's Premier Jay Weatherill has confirmed.
The business will be sold to Liberty House which is part of London-based GFG Alliance, with all Whyalla steelworkers expected to keep their jobs.
"The sale of the whole of the business is a dramatic victory for us here in SA," Mr Weatherill said.
"Any self-respecting nation needs its own capacity to create steel products. This is about building our nation, it is about building our national infrastructure and we cannot be beholden to other countries for a steel industry."

The sale is subject to approval by the Arrium Committee of Creditors, which meets next week, and the Foreign Investment Review Board.
The iron-ore giant Arrium went into voluntary administration in 2016, with debts of more than $4 billion.
Arrium's administrator KordaMentha said it had signed a "binding agreement" with GFG Alliance to sell the steelmaking and mining company.
It said the company owned by the British Gupta family had submitted a modified offer on Tuesday night.
"Taking all factors into consideration, including the timeframes required to complete a sale, KordaMentha and our sale advisers Morgan Stanley decided that GFG was an option superior to the conditional offer of the Korean alliance with whom we were negotiating," administrator Mark Mentha said.
Mr Weatherill said he and Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis would meet with representatives from Liberty House tomorrow, and said the announcement ends 15 months of uncertainty for the Whyalla workforce.
"This is a great victory for Whyalla. An extraordinary victory for South Australia and a very important victory for our nation," he said.

"The other wonderful thing about this decision is that the company themselves are pledging to retain all of the workforce at the Whyalla steelworks and promising to invest in upgrading the steel works in the future."
Federal Treasurer Scott Morrison welcomed the outcome, saying the process to approve the sale would be done "speedily".
"We have already been in a position to agree the conditions around the Foreign Investment Review Board process," he said.
"I expect to sign off on that later today which I think will give the added certainty for the workers in Whyalla and the community in Whyalla which demonstrates a very positive future for them."
The Korean consortium, headed by Newlake Alliance Management and JB Asset Management, and supported by POSCO, was selected as the preferred bidder last month.
An exclusivity period granted to Newlake expired on Friday with no deal reached.
SA Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis said due to the consortium's "internal issues" it was unable to make a share agreement and over the weekend Liberty House came in "with a strong bid".
KordaMentha said once the sale was completed it would continue with the business of administration, including finalising returns to creditors.
The cost of the sale has not been disclosed and the deal is expected to be finalised by the end of August.
It is understood GFG's bid is not conditional on any extra funding from the State and Federal Governments than that already on offer.
GFG's bid is also the third submitted by the company, which said its acquisition of Arrium would guarantee 5,500 jobs in Australia.
Chief executive Sanjeev Gupta said Arrium fitted in "perfectly" with GFG's strategy, adding "we believe it has an exciting future".
Mr Gupta said GFG would continue to explore business opportunities in Australia, including in the renewable energy and mining sectors.
"I would like to thank all stakeholders who have worked tirelessly alongside me for over a year on this acquisition," he said.
Whyalla mayor and former Labor MP Lyn Breuer said news of the announcement was "such a relief" for Whyalla.
"We've been through a terrible time in the last 15 months... a lot of uncertainty, a lot of doom and gloom initially," she said.
"This is a bit of a surprise that it's Liberty but certainly very, very welcome.
"They have a very strong mining record and certainly have steelworks around... we're very comfortable they'll be able to do the same for us.
"I said a few weeks ago that we had the champagne in the fridge but we wouldn't pop the corks, but I'm pretty sure we might pop them perhaps next week some time."
SA Opposition Leader Steven Marshall also responded favourably.
"After so much doubt and stress about the future of Whyalla's steelworks, this would be a tremendous relief for the workers and their families," he said.
It was a quiet night with Wall Street closed for the Independence Day public holiday.
The focus then turned to the major stock markets of Europe and Asia, which all finished in negative territory overnight.

Despite that, ASX SPI futures were up 0.1 per cent, pointing to a flat or slightly higher open for the Australian share market.
Geopolitical tensions are again heightened, with investors seemingly rattled by North Korea's latest missile test.
The rogue state claims it now has the capability to strike "anywhere in the world".
It is all but certain that North Korea will be a hot topic at the G20 leaders' summit this Friday.
The first meeting between US President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will also happen at this summit.
As an indicator of volatility, gold prices - seen as a 'safe haven' asset - rose almost 0.3 per cent overnight to $US1,223.60 per ounce.
It is a quiet day for economic news, with the main data release being the Australian Industry Group's services index.
AIG's monthly survey asks service-based companies to rate the relative level of business conditions and today's results are expected to reflect steady expansion.
It would also be tough for the Australian share market to match its performance yesterday.
On Tuesday, the local bourse's value surged by $28 billion, with the benchmark ASX 200 gaining 1.75 per cent in a rally driven by bank stocks.
The Australian dollar tumbled sharply - by about 0.7 per cent - following the Reserve Bank's interest decision.
It was no surprise that the RBA decided to hold the official cash rate at the record low 1.5 per cent - for the eleventh straight month.
Investors were also curious about whether the RBA would follow other central banks - the US, Canada, Europe - in taking a hawkish tone to discuss tightening monetary policy.
"The [Reserve Bank's] accompanying policy statement was more neutral than our team (and clearly the market) had expected, suggesting that the bank still sees policy tightening as distant," said Deutsche Bank analyst Ken Crompton.
Palmerston residents have voiced their support for the suspension of the current council, saying more transparency and public consultation is needed.
The council, now comprised solely of temporary manager Mark Blackburn, held its first meeting last night since all the elected members were suspended last week.
The Northern Territory Government suspended the entire council pending an investigation into potential breeches of the Local Government Act.
Mr Blackburn was asked a number of questions about the investigation, which he said would look broadly about the governance, financial decisions and operation of the council, including administrative staff.
One resident, Donald Young, said he agreed with the NT Government's decision.
"I think it was a good time for them to be suspended," Mr Young said.
"I think there were a lot of questions the public had about the goings on and the decisions that council [made].
"Like closing down the recreational centre and not continuing the relationship with the YMCA, the paid parking that's been introduced in June... and also the signing of the contract to build a multi-story carpark without approval to borrow money for that project."
Mr Young also said he was glad the suspension happened before the upcoming council elections.
"I was really worried that, given we were heading towards an election, that the current council were making decisions that were locking the city in long-term when they might not be the council moving forward."
Another resident, Dorothy Fox, said she thought the council had failed to properly consult the public on key decisions.
"In eight years in Palmerston I haven't seen any of the aldermen consult the community," she said.
"We've never been asked our opinion on anything."
Ms Fox said it was also difficult to obtain copies of reports and that there appeared to be "no order" to the council.
The former chief executive officer of Litchfield Shire, Russel Anderson, has been tasked with investigating the council and will report back to the NT Government by the end of December.
On Wednesday, the investigation officially began into the council's governance, financial status, and the conduct of its councillors, said Gerry McCarthy, Minister for Housing and Community Development.
"Palmerston residents deserve and need to have confidence in their council and trust their best interests underpin all decisions — it is their money being spent after all," he said in a statement.
"While I have placed the council under official management the business of council does not stop and, importantly, both the council manager and the investigator that were announced last week are now in place and are working towards providing certainty to local residents, future elected members and all those with an interest in the City of Palmerston Council."
He said that last month, the council released its draft municipal plan for the five-year period to 2022 for public consultation, outlining its strategies and priorities for development.
"In a fast growing municipality like Palmerston it is extremely important that the plans and initiatives of council are understood and supported by rate payers, residents and local businesses," Mr McCarthy said.
He urged residents to read the draft plan and have their say before the July 11 deadline.
A man aged in his early 50s has died at a Rio Tinto mine site in Western Australia's Pilbara region.
Rio Tinto said the worker died at its Yandicoogina iron ore mine, almost 100 kilometres north-west of Newman, on Tuesday morning.
"An employee at Rio Tinto's Yandicoogina iron ore mine passed away this morning following a serious incident on site," the company said in a statement.
"Emergency services are on scene.
"Rio Tinto has advised the relevant authorities and will assist their investigations.
"The company will provide all the necessary support for the employee's family and colleagues during this difficult time."
Police believe the man was aged in his early 50s and have launched an investigation into his death.
A police spokeswoman said the death was reported to them just after midday and officers were at the scene.
The Department of Mines and Petroleum is also investigating what happened.
Northern Territory Chief Minister Michael Gunner says a deal allowing the Government to keep a 20 per cent stake in Darwin Port is a "win-win" agreement, even though it delivers no extra profits and no right of veto to the NT.
Mr Gunner announced the Government had struck a deal to keep a 20 per cent interest in Darwin's port, which was controversially leased to Chinese-owned Landbridge for 99 years.
He said keeping the 20 per cent stake would give Territorians "a say" in the operation of the port and in appointments to senior port positions.
"This gives Territorians, the Territory Government, a direct say in the appointment of positions like the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, the chief operations officer and the most senior person for Landbridge in Australia," Mr Gunner said.
When the port lease was signed by the NT's former CLP government in 2015, it was agreed that the NT Government would own a 20 per cent stake until Landbridge found an Australian buyer to purchase it.
At the time, the 20 per cent deal was sold as a way of keeping some local control over the Darwin port, which is a highly strategic asset.
After last year's NT election, the Labor Government began talks with Landbridge about the 20 per cent stake staying not just in Australian hands, but with the Government.
Announcing the deal with Landbridge today, the Chief Minister suggested the agreement should ease concerns about the strategic implications of the port lease.
"Now Territorians can have confidence over the next 98 years the Territory Government's going to be involved with the operations of the port, making sure our strategic future is secured," he said.
But he also said, the deal did not deliver control to the NT Government.
Instead, it gives the government a right of involvement in some decisions.
"We don't have veto but we must be consulted," Mr Gunner said.
The vice-president of the Landbridge group, Mike Hughes, said the company and the NT Government would work together to develop the Territory.
"We're very happy with the agreement announced today, it puts us and the Northern Territory in the best position to move ahead and continue developing the port and investing and growing trade through Darwin," Mr Hughes said.
Mr Hughes said the agreement gave the NT Government some "more visibility and more control rights", but declined to provide more details.
The NT Government says under the deal, it does not have to refund any of the $506 million Landbridge paid for the port lease.
That is because Landbridge paid for 100 per cent of the lease.
The Government says it has not paid for the ownership of its 20 per cent stake and therefore does not share in any profits.
The deal announced today still allows the NT Government to divest its stake, but the Chief Minister said he had no plans to do that.
Mr Gunner said the NT Government had kept the Commonwealth informed of the talks about the deal.
The port lease signed in 2015 to Landbridge has been highly contentious.
It was criticised by security experts and it prompted the Federal Government to tighten national foreign investment rules.
Businessman and former MP Clive Palmer claimed $1,400 in taxpayer funded airfares at a time when his political career had ended, an expense report has revealed.
Mr Palmer lost the seat of Fairfax at the July 2016 election, but according to an expense report published by the Department of Finance, he claimed return flights from Queensland to Canberra last November, at a cost of $1,383.
The flights match the same two days Mr Palmer was in Canberra for his High Court bid to avoid being questioned by liquidators over the collapse of Queensland Nickel.
Under entitlement rules, retired MPs are allowed to claim five return flights for government purposes within six months of officially leaving office.
The former MP is currently on holidays in Europe with his family.
ABC News has contacted Mr Palmer's media advisor for comment.
Queensland Nickel collapsed last year with $300 million in debt, leaving more than 800 people out of work.
A Virgin Australia plane bound for Proserpine has become the second Queensland flight in 24 hours to be turned around due to a suspected bird strike.
Virgin Australia confirmed flight VA1117 from Brisbane was struck by a bird on Tuesday afternoon, shortly after take-off.
It comes after an AirAsia X plane made an emergency landing at Brisbane Airport late Monday night, with the airline also blaming a bird strike for damaging the engine.
In a statement, a Virgin Australia spokesperson said the pilot decided to return the plane to Brisbane Airport as a precautionary measure.
"In line with standard operating procedures, the aircraft has been reviewed by engineers," he said.

It is understood the bird did not make contact with the engine, but may have hit the windscreen.
Passengers were placed onto another service and the aircraft has been cleared for service.
The AirAsia X incident happened shortly after the Kuala Lumpur-bound flight took off from the Gold Coast about 10:20pm.
"Two bird remains were found on the runway," the airline said in a statement.
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau said it was investigating the AirAsia X plane's engine failure, but was not investigating the landing of the Virgin Australia flight.
A report released by the ATSB in February this year found the level of bird strikes in high capacity operations have increased dramatically in 2014-15.
The largest increases were found in Cairns, Canberra, Darwin Sydney and the Gold Coast.
Strategic Aviation Solutions chairman Neil Hansford, who consults with commercial airlines and airports, said the explanation from AirAsia X was suspicious, especially when airports spend large amounts of money to keep birds away from the air strip.
Many passengers recalled the plane vibrating more than normal before the take-off.
"When it tried to take off, the engine rattled a lot. It rattled more than usual. And I was sitting with Eric and we were like, something's wrong," passenger Calvin Boon said.
Phil Shaw from Avisure, the company contracted to keep birds away from Gold Coast Airport, said remnants of a bird had been found on the runway.
"There [are] remnants found on the runway, from the evidence so far it would suggest it is very likely to be a bird strike of some sort."

The Reserve Bank has left the official cash rate on hold at a record low 1.5 per cent and it seems it is going to stay there for the foreseeable future.
The cash rate has been at 1.5 per cent since the RBA last cut rates by 25 basis points in August last year.
Today's post-meeting statement from the bank's governor, Philip Lowe, offered no hint that there would be a change to rates in the near future.
In particular, Dr Lowe appeared to play down a recent improvement in official employment numbers and solid private sector job ads surveys.
"Indicators of the labour market remain mixed," he observed.
"Employment growth has been stronger over recent months. The various forward-looking indicators point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead.
"Wage growth remains low, however, and this is likely to continue for a while yet. Inflation is expected to increase gradually as the economy strengthens."
St George senior economist Janu Chan said these comments evidence caution about the outlook.
"The RBA does not yet appear convinced that the improvement in the labour market is sufficient to begin thinking about tightening rates," she wrote in a note.
The other concern for the RBA in raising interest rates too fast, is that property investors and those with interest-only loans have already seen banks raise interest rates several times, independent of the RBA.
"Growth in housing debt has outpaced the slow growth in household incomes," the RBA observed warily.
"The recent supervisory measures should help address the risks associated with high and rising levels of household indebtedness.
"Lenders have also announced increases in mortgage rates for investor and interest-only loans."
Housing worries were a recurring theme throughout the statement and the board remains cognizant and concerned about how a huge supply of apartments could affect the market.
"In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years," it noted before observing that, already, "rent increases are the slowest for two decades."
The neutral statement surprised the market, which had expected that the RBA would follow its central banking counterparts overseas in more explicitly hinting that the next move for rates would be up.
However, the RBA made clear that it has been listening to its fellow central bankers and expects global rates are on the march back up.
"Further increases in US interest rates are expected and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies," the RBA noted.
"Financial markets have been functioning effectively and volatility has been low."
That comment did not apply to the Australian dollar this afternoon.
It fell more than half a cent as traders digested Dr Lowe's statement, and wound back some of their bets on an Australian interest rate increase which, even before today's meeting, was not expected to occur before the middle of next year.
The local currency fell from a high of 76.8 US cents earlier this afternoon to around 76.1 by 5:20pm (AEST).
That would have pleased Dr Lowe, according to Colonial First State's chief economist Stephen Halmarick.
"It is also significant that the RBA continues to point towards the benefits of some depreciation in the currency, stating that 'the depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom ... An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment'," he observed.
"This would seem to put to bed, at least for the time being, some of the growing hawkish expectations in local markets."

It's just over three decades since Dire Straits immortalised their satirical free money formula in song.

Sadly, not all of us are skilled at Hawaiian noises or banging on the bongos like a chimpanzee, so we're not going to make it as rock legends on MTV, which itself has been usurped by YouTube anyway.
But what if you didn't have to be a rock star to get money for nothing?
What if, instead of humans installing microwave ovens and moving refrigerators, robots did it for us, and then we got paid to do nothing?
Much of the discussion about artificial intelligence and machines is cloaked in fear - the fear that they will take our jobs and leave the masses unemployed and destitute.
But what if there are some jobs - like custom kitchen deliveries and moving colour TVs - that we'd rather like them to take?
"I think we should embrace automation. The only problem we've got now is we're not embracing it," argued author and former BBC economics editor Paul Mason.
"We're paying people with degrees to make coffee. We are replacing machine car washes in Britain with hand car washes, where six guys with rags can undercut a machine."
It's long been a dream of futurists that machines might take over odious and repetitive tasks so that people might work less and enjoy more leisure.

The difference in the past couple of decades is that machines are becoming increasingly capable of assuming not just manual roles, but mental tasks as well.
But this dream could turn into a nightmare if the fruits of the machines' labour are retained exclusively by their owners.
It's a nightmare that renowned physicist and cosmologist Stephen Hawking sees unfolding before his eyes.
"The outcome will depend on how things are distributed," he replied in a 2015 Reddit AMA (ask me anything).
"Everyone can enjoy a life of luxurious leisure if the machine-produced wealth is shared, or most people can end up miserably poor if the machine-owners successfully lobby against wealth redistribution.
"So far, the trend seems to be toward the second option, with technology driving ever-increasing inequality."
A universal basic income (UBI) paid for by higher taxes on the wealthy, especially those whose wealth is derived from capital not labour, is a key plank in the first option.

Tech billionaire Elon Musk is an advocate, even though he would probably be one of those most heavily taxed.
"I think ultimately we will have to have some kind of universal basic income, I don't think we're going to have a choice," he told a global summit in Dubai earlier this year.
Troy Henderson is doing his PhD on universal basic income and, even though he's sceptical that robots and AI really will lead to mass unemployment given historical experience with major technological change, he said there are still good reasons to introduce a UBI.
"A reduction in poverty levels, a reduction in inequality, an increase in income security and also an increase in personal freedom," he argued.

"I'd also say it is a way of redistributing value in the form of money from over-remunerated forms of work, such as banking for example, to under-remunerated forms of work, such as looking after kids or looking after elderly parents, which today is disproportionately done by women."
But that's precisely the major sticking point around a universal basic income ... money.
Giving everyone money for nothing doesn't come cheap.
"If you wanted to replace the current system with just a level of payment that was about the level of Newstart, we'd be talking $240 billion a year in spending," estimated Professor Peter Whiteford from ANU's Crawford School of Public Policy.

One option would be to reduce some of the more generous existing benefits, such as the aged and disability pensions, to the level of a UBI.
But that probably wouldn't be popular.
"If you set it at the level of Newstart you would be cutting the benefits for pensioners by 40 to 45 per cent," argued Simon Cowan from the Centre for Independent Studies think tank.
Even with those savings the net cost would still be huge.
"You would still have to find something like a $170-190 billion in order to fund this scheme," Mr Cowan estimated.
The overall spend for the Australian Government this financial year is about $450 billion, and it already has a sizeable budget deficit, so it would need to raise nearly 50 per cent more tax revenue to fund even a very basic universal income.
That could lead to some eye-watering tax rates for those still working.
"You'd be talking about everybody having a marginal tax rate of about 60 cents in the dollar," Professor Whiteford reckoned.
But it's zero sum game. For every higher-income person paying more tax, there'd be a lower income person made better off, with most people in the middle about the same.
The second big obstacle to UBI is the question of whether anyone will want to work at all - a question tested in North American trials in the 1970s.
"If you were an adult male it didn't make much difference in the amount of work you did, mothers tended to spend more time with their children and young people tended to spend more time in education," Professor Whiteford said.
The Netherlands, Finland and Canada's most populous province, Ontario, are currently running their own trials.
Approximately 250 Dutch are set to receive around $1,400 a month, 4,000 Canadians will receive up to $17,000 a year and 2,000 unemployed Finns will be paid about $840 monthly, regardless of whether they earn anything else or not.
But Finnish basic income researcher Otto Lehto from Kings College London says the Finnish trial, run by a centre-right Government, is too limited in scope.
"The idea of basic income has always been to really be universal and applicable to people at different points in their lives and in different employment situations," he said.

"The experiment will not test out whether self-employed people, students, entrepreneurs or so on will benefit."
But even if the trials prove that most people still want to work when they don't have to just to survive, will the better off want to pay a guaranteed wage for those who don't?
On this front I think Pink Floyd offers more insight than Dire Straits.
"Money, it's a crime. Share it fairly but don't take a slice of my pie ... if you ask for a rise it's no surprise that they're giving none away."
This is part two of a three part special by The Business and Business PM which looks at how automation will reshape the Australian workforce.
The Australian share market surged within the first 10 minutes of trade, and has gained around $30 billion so far this session.
At 1:30pm (AEST), the ASX 200 was up 1.67 per cent, and the All Ordinaries had gained 1.56 per cent.
The local bourse has recovered some of the ground that it lost in the previous couple of trading days - in which it plunged by 2.3 per cent.
With every sector in positive territory, the biggest gains have come from the financial, telecommunications and mining sectors (up 2.2, 2.1 and 1.7 per cent respectively).
The most in-demand stocks today have been Ardent Leisure (up 6.9 per cent), followed by Harvey Norman (up 5.4 pc) and JB Hi-Fi (up 4.7 per cent).
It is also worth noting that the ASX 200 is "overweight" when it comes to financial stocks, which make up more than 40 per cent of the index's value.
With that in mind, all the big four banks are performing strongly today - following news that South Australia's Liberal Party plans to block the state's proposed bank levy.

Even the weakest one today - CBA - has risen 2 per cent, while the bank with the largest gain was NAB (up 3 per cent).
The next biggest sector on the market is mining, which makes up 22 per cent of the benchmark index's value.
BHP, Fortescue Metals and Rio Tinto have recorded large gains - 2.2, 1.2 and 1.1 per cent respectively.
The sectors with the weakest gains were technology (up 0.8 per cent) and industrials (up 0.9 pc).
Not all miners were winners, however. Gold miners dominated the list of worst performing stocks after the price of the precious metal fell sharply overnight.

Evolution Mining (-5 pc), Northern Star Resources (-3.3 pc), Saracen Minerals (-3 pc) and Resolute Mining (-3 pc) were the weakest performers.
One of the weakest non-mining stocks was Fairfax Media - which was down 1 per cent at midday, but recovered to trade flat.
This follows its sharp plunge of 10.9 per cent yesterday, when Fairfax announced its private equity suitors TPG Capital and Hellman & Friedman (at this stage) were no longer interested in buying it out.
It also did not help that Fairfax announced an earnings downgrade.
The Bureau of Statistics' retail data for May came in surprisingly strong - a rise of 0.6 per cent.
This surpassed the expectations of economists (surveyed by Reuters) who were expecting a lift of just 0.2 per cent.
The next economic data release is the Reserve Bank interest rate decision this afternoon at 2:30pm (AEST).
It is almost universally expected the RBA will keep rates on hold at the record low 1.5 per cent.
Are you in your 30s and making a career change? If you are, you're not alone.
Demographers say the trend of young professionals ditching the nine-to-five work life to start their own businesses is one that's growing.
Erin Bingham is 32 and has left her job as a public servant in Canberra to pursue her passion for screenwriting full-time.
"I did the nine-to-five, I bought the apartment because that's what you do and I saw my friends doing the same thing and I thought, 'OK, these are the things that you follow in life'," she said.
But when she turned 30, something clicked.

"It was like this realisation that I didn't have to do what was expected of me," she told Lateline.
"I didn't have a family, I don't have kids, I can really do whatever I want."
Erin has sold her apartment and moved back in with her mum to fund her new career change.
"People think I'm crazy, possibly because this is Canberra and everyone in Canberra is a public servant," she said.
"I have this opportunity and I have the time and I thought at 32, I would like to try it now and try it for two years, three years, fail spectacularly and come back to the public service and at least say I tried it and at least say that I gave it a go and followed my passion."

Childhood friends Marty Spargo and Steve Macdonald grew up in the beachside town of Shellharbour and had a similar realisation when they turned 30.
Marty was a pilot with Qantas and Steve was an accountant, but they left their jobs to start an energy drink brand.
Marty said the change has allowed him to spend more time with his family.
"For me, I was taking a bit of time off work because I had recently lost my mother to cancer and I wanted to be closer to home and to the family," he said.
"I was relatively young and it just made me realise you only live once."

In 2016, about 126,000 part-time roles were created in Australia, while full-time jobs fell by 34,000.
Liz Allen, a demographer at the Australian National University, said the increasing casualisation of the workforce has created a greater risk-taking culture among young professionals.
"I think people are taking more risks because of the uncertainty in the labour market," she said.
"When there is insecurity, we innovate, and those that can't innovate don't fare as well in terms of adjustments in the labour market.
"So while there is that insecurity, there's nothing to lose if you like. There is that freedom."

Mark McCrindle, principal of the social demography company McCrindle, said the state of the Australian housing market was another reason people in their early 30s were taking career risks rather than settling down.
"If we look at the previous generation of young people, they were saving up for a deposit by the time they were even in their mid-20s, they were getting a foothold in property and that means they had a mortgage they had to pay down," he said.
"But now housing affordability is pricing this generation out of the market which means they end up with more money that's disposable to spend on lifestyle pursuits such as to start up a business or to fund a new training opportunity or a new career."
Mr McCrindle said the Australian economy would win from a generation that was nimble and innovative, but he warned there were risks if things did not work out financially.
"So while it's not as exciting to join the career ladder, it does have the benefit of long-term earnings and locking into the mortgage does have that asset benefit of a home and therefore a retirement vehicle," he said.
The millennials trend has also been identified in the United States.
A 2016 survey by the United States' Gallup poll found that six in 10 millennials would consider leaving their jobs if they did not feel engaged at work, compared with 4.5 in 10 non-millennials.
The Fair Work Commission's rejection of a bid to make domestic violence leave a minimum standard for all workers is a move in the right direction, according to the country's top union boss.
Ged Kearney, president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, is claiming victory in spite of the decision, arguing the industrial umpire has left the door open to paid leave in the future.
"The recognition that there needs to be a workplace response is a real positive for us," Ms Kearney said.
"We're taking a lot of heart that down the track we can revisit the situation — parental leave came in incremental stages."
The unions originally called on the Fair Work Commission to give workers 10 days of paid leave if they were victims of family violence.
The full bench of the commission dismissed the plan, saying it was not satisfied paid family violence leave was necessary.
But it also argued workplaces could not stay silent on the issue, something Ms Kearney said was a significant step.
"The commission has actually listened to our argument, they've agreed with us on many grounds," she said.
"They've agreed that domestic violence means that predominantly women are financially disadvantaged.
Frontline domestic violence workers, like Emily Maguire from the Domestic Violence Resource Centre Victoria, think the leave should be a basic condition afforded to all workers.
She said women trying to escape abusive relationships were often forced to quit their jobs because they ran out of leave.
"Women very quickly use up their personal leave and their sick leave [and] we know that on average it takes women seven attempts to leave a partner," Ms Maguire said.
"How many doctors' visits and courts' visits and legal service visits and support for your children do you need to be able to access in order to get some support?"

Ms Maguire said the creation of a domestic violence leave clause would mean victims did not have to rely on the goodwill of their bosses.
"We know a whole lot of people who don't understand family violence, who don't think it's serious," she said.
"We do know that some employers are not supportive of victims and that they will eventually lose out."
While some Australian workers successfully bargained for unpaid domestic violence leave, it is still not enshrined in the minimum award.
But Steve Smith, head of national workplace relations policy at the Australian Industry Group, said that was the way it should stay.
"The union's case isn't that the employers are doing the wrong thing, but they argued that so many employers are dealing with this issue, that all employers should deal with the issue in a standard way," he said.
"[That] is not appropriate because of the different capacities of different businesses to be able to afford paid leave."
Consumers appear to have put worries about low wages growth and high household debt behind them to open their wallets in May.

Retail sales rose 0.6 per cent, on a seasonally adjusted basis, down on the 1 per cent growth recorded in April, but still three times the rate that most economists expected after a poor start to the year.
Sales were up 3.2 per cent over the past year.
Sales were generally stronger across most categories, although department stores continued to have problems, with turnover falling 0.7 per cent.
While the broad category of clothing, footwear and personal accessories rebounded by from its recent weakness, it was largely propped up by demand for personal accessories and shoes. Apparel sales fell in May.
Supermarket sales rose 0.5 per cent, while liquor sales dried up, down 2.1 per cent.
The housing sensitive sectors were resilient, with strong gains in electronic goods, furnishings and garden supplies.

Capital Economics Kate Hickie said the much stronger than anticipated rise in retail sales in May, alongside the surge in sales over April, suggests that real consumption growth accelerated in the second quarter.
However, Ms Hickie doubted it marks a sustained pick-up in consumption growth.
"With consumer confidence continuing to trend downwards, households' incomes facing an additional squeeze from rising energy bills and household indebtedness at a record high we expect that real consumption growth will slow from around 2.6 per cent year-on-year in the second quarter to 2.0 per cent by the end of the year," Ms Hickie said.
Citi's Josh Williamson says the headline figure was largely supported by stronger than anticipated spending for household related items.
"We suspect this reflects the pick-up in housing churn from a new months ago," Mr Williamson said.
"Solid employment gains over the three months to May could also have improved the near-term outlook for household expenditure."
However Mr Williamson says May's retail trade data is probably as good as it gets.
"Cooling in residential construction argues against ongoing strong gains in housing related expenditure growth and income sapping rises in essential items will likely constrain household budgets."
Across the states, shoppers in New South Wales and Victoria were the most active while retail sales in Queensland fell for the sixth time in the past  seven months.
Change in retail sales month-on month
(Percentage in seasonally adjusted terms)
Source: ABS
The Australian share market is set to open higher, following a mostly positive lead from Wall Street.

The Dow Jones and S&P 500 indexes were lifted by financial and energy stocks.
In particular, the energy sector was boosted by a strong rebound in oil prices overnight - after taking a heavy beating in the last couple of weeks.
Technology shares were, however, the worst performing US stocks, which dragged down the tech-heavy Nasdaq index.
China's manufacturing industry roared back into growth mode last month - expanding at its fastest pace in three months.
New orders and production rose in a sign of a modest recovery according to a private survey, the Caixin/Markit Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' index (PMI).
The Caixin PMI rose to 50.4 points in June.
This is better than what analysts (surveyed by Reuters) were expecting - which was Chinese manufacturing falling to 49.5 points (which was its weak result in May).
A reading above 50 means the industry is growing - whereas it would be contracting if it fell below that number.
The Caixin readings - which focus on smaller firms - were echoed by last Friday's official PMI figures, which were much more bullish in comparison.
However, "slowing credit growth and tighter monetary policy are still clouding the outlook", warned Julian Evans-Pritchard, the China Economist of Capital Economics.
"Looking ahead, today's better-than-expected PMI reading doesn't change our view that the economy is set to slow further over the coming quarters.
"It can take time for policy tightening and slower credit creation to fully feed through into weaker activity but past cycles suggest that it eventually will."
US President Donald Trump is expected to use fast-growing supplies of American liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a political tool at his Thursday meeting in Warsaw, Poland.
The President will attend the "Three Seas" summit and meet with leaders of a dozen countries that rely on Russia for their energy needs.
The summit goes by that name because member countries - including the land-locked Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia - are surrounded the three seas (the Adriatic, Baltic and Black Seas).
Moscow has, in recent years, cut off gas shipments during pricing disputes with neighbouring countries in winter months.
US gas exports may help lessen their dependence on Russia.
President Trump will visit Warsaw the day before he is due to arrive at the G20 summit in Hamburg, where he will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin for the first time.
The Reserve Bank board will meet today to discuss interest rates.
The official cash rate will most likely stay at 1.5 per cent this month - and it has at that record low since August 2016 - almost a year ago.
Most economists are predicting it will that way for the rest of the year due to slow wage growth and weak economic growth.
Core inflation is currently below 2 per cent, which fails to meet the RBA's target range of 2-3 per cent growth.
The Bureau of Statistics will release retail sales data for the month of May - and the market expectation is that it will grow by a small 0.3 per cent.
The April retail figures were surprisingly strong - up by 1 per cent - and that strength is unlikely to be replicated in today's figures.
To most of us, the ping of a text message is a sound that has dictated life for years.
But in a small outback Queensland town 1,200 kilometres west of Brisbane, the mobile phone is a new development.
Windorah "entered the 21st century" in late November when mobile services were switched on as part of the $21 million Barcoo–Diamantina Fibre Optic Project, which was jointly funded by three levels of government.
Six months on, locals are reflecting on life with mobile reception.
"I kind of enjoyed being disconnected from the outside world to some degree," said senior constable Rob Edwards, who is the sole officer in the Windorah station.
"It was like living in a little bubble."
But from a policing perspective, Constable Edwards said mobile phone reception had been an important upgrade.
"We do get a lot of tourists coming through here and some of them are quite elderly, and there are times where people want to keep in contact with those that are travelling," he said.
"If they don't hear from them they get a bit concerned and contact the local police … so it just makes it more accessible for people to keep in contact with each other, so for us, that's probably an advantage."

For pub owner Marilyn Simpson, the transition was not as smooth.
She was initially opposed to the upgrade in services because she was worried about the impact it would have on the conversation-driven pub culture of Windorah, but she has since devised a solution.
"There is an impact but I don't think it was as big as we anticipated, but we also brought in some stuff to try and compensate for that," she said.
"We have a sign in the hotel that says there will be a fine if you use your phone in the hotel, so most people now exit the hotel itself to use it.
"It's a gimmick and it's a good thing, but we notice that people read the sign and walk outside and use their mobile, and go back in and the interaction is the same as it always was."

Petrol station owner Danielle Weston said she had always been supportive of the upgrades because they would bring a tourism benefit.
"I thought it was a great idea because you often get tourists come through … they'd stop longer if there was cover, so hopefully it does the trick and keeps them for a bit longer," she said.
Six months on, Ms Weston has not noticed a change in tourism numbers, but said it had gotten the grey nomads talking.
"They're just starting to get going now, and everyone's talking that they're glad about the mobile phone reception," she said.

Information officer Trudy Gorringe spends most of her day talking to tourists about the region, and is a fierce supporter of being able to use a mobile phone in the town.
"I think it's a vital thing for the outback and isolated areas," she said.
Ms Gorringe believed being able to use social media to market Windorah would bring a significant boost to the economy.
"Now we are able to incorporate social media into our own advertising with the Barcoo Shire and the Diamantina Shires, which is only going to be fantastic," she said.
The fibre optic project has now connected Birdsville and Bedourie with 4G mobile services.

A woman from the New South Wales Hunter Valley is fighting to get her identity back, six months after a fraudster racked up more than a dozen loan applications in her name.
'Julie' has told the ABC she had suspected something was amiss when her local postie alerted her to anomalies with her mail.
"Because I live in a very, very small community a letter from Telstra came to an address that I lived at the last time I held an account with Telstra," Julie said.
"Because they knew me they delivered it to my existing post box.
"I've opened it up and I've gone I don't have an account with Telstra and that was a catalyst to a living hell.
"It was nothing more than sheer luck that I found out."

Julie said her identity was stolen, via her drivers' licence, and since then 18 loan applications had been made in her name, one for $10,000.
She said the more she learned, the more sick she felt.
"In the middle of the night I wondered what was going to come at me next," she said.
"I am a highly intelligent, confident woman and yet this has really drained me.
"It is absolutely like a bad movie."
Julie said her credit rating had almost halved to 530 since and until she can prove she is a victim of crime she cannot get a new drivers' licence.
"In New South Wales you can't change your drivers licence number unless you change your identity," she said.

Julie's local federal politician, member for Paterson Meryl Swanson raised the case in parliament and called for tougher rules to stop people applying for credit in other people's names.
"The applications were all done online," Ms Swanson said.
"You do not even have to go into a bank or provide any physical evidence — just a drivers' licence number and you can fudge the rest.
"Julie has been told by those in the know that a drivers' licence is now the most powerful form of ID you have and the most likely to be stolen.
"Banks have dedicated fraud teams to deal with this, but still they seem to lend without adequate proof of identity.
"Julie believes organisations such as Telstra and these big banks are not moving quickly enough.
"They are not keeping up with the cyber-criminals and they are not doing enough to restore the credit rating of victims so they can get on with their lives.
For Julie reform cannot come soon enough.
"The whole way it was me having to prove I didn't make those applications," she said.
"I found this was very frustrating that this could be done online.
"I think that credit providers need to be held a lot more accountable because of the ease of these online applications."
The Australian Federal Police said each year people lost hundreds of millions of dollars through ID fraud.
The AFP said recent estimates by the Attorney-General's Department found that identity crime cost Australia upwards of $1.6 billion each year, with the majority (around $900m) lost by individuals through credit card fraud, identity theft, and scams.
On its website it said, "the AFP, in collaboration with other government departments and private sector organisations, is involved in a variety of activities to tackle identity theft and identity crime."
The fourth industrial revolution is underway and it's threatening to wipe out nearly half the jobs in Australia.

This latest round is characterised by intelligent robots and machine learning and PricewaterhouseCoopers economist Jeremy Thorpe said it's going to completely reshape the Australian jobs market.
"Over the next 20 years approximately 44 per cent of Australia's jobs, that's more than 5 million jobs, are at risk of being disrupted by technology, whether that's digitisation or automation," he said.

Stefan Hajkowicz, who is the principal scientist at the CSIRO, says it's white collar workers who are about to feel the pain.
"The sort of job losses that we did see in the manufacturing sector in Australia — the car manufacturing sector — are going to get into the administrative services and financial services sector in downtown CBD postcodes and that's the big challenge that lies in front of us," he said.
Mr Thorpe agrees, adding that white-collar workers in Australia were "the big growth sector over the last 30 years".
"We were the beneficiaries of globalisation and it's going to be a shock to the system when we see not just the growth temper, we actually see a decline in those sorts of jobs."

Australian financial start up Stockspot says its business model makes thousands of highly paid jobs obsolete.
It claims that by using algorithms and automation instead of people, they can provide better financial advice at a cheaper price.
Founder Chris Brycki said some jobs, particularly in the financial services sector, don't add value.
"Financial services employs about 10 per cent of our workforce and, really, a lot of those jobs are unnecessary," he said.
"A lot of research analysts, stock pickers, stockbrokers, they don't actually add any end value for the consumer."
Mr Hajkowicz said the technology behind digital currency bitcoin — known as blockchain — also threatens to seriously shake up the industry.
"Blockchain and distributive ledger technology, if it plays out the way we think it can, this is the technology that sits behind the bitcoin currency and can be used for smart invoicing or auditing processes," he said.
"It could turn the job of 100 auditors into one."
The job losses in finance have already begun, with Westpac reducing its headcount over the last year.

But the real hit is still to come.
A Macquarie analyst recently predicted the big four might look to shed 20,000 jobs over the coming years.
It's already happened overseas. In the decade following the great recession, the banking workforce in the US dropped by around half a million people.
Mr Brycki said we will feel the pain here soon.
"The reason we are behind the US and the UK is that we didn't go through the financial crisis as badly, and that flushed out a lot of people from the industry," he said.
But it was only a temporary reprieve.
"A lot of people are still in the stale jobs in banks and it's not until the banks have to lay people off in the next few years that the [financial] tech industry and this disruption will really flourish," he said.
It's not just start-ups threatening existing business models.
The big tech giants are also continually innovating and threatening to push further into the finance space.
"Apple may be better placed to be a bank, Google might be better placed to be a bank than an actual bank because it has technology to facilitate the transaction," Mr Brycki said
He says young people eyeing off what are currently lucrative careers option will be forced to reconsider.
"I came in to the industry at the very top — it was around 2006 when I joined," he said.
"We'll probably never see that level of salaries and bonuses and the craziness in financial services because of the structural changes that are going to happen."
Mr Thorpe said the evidence is already building.
"It is the boiling frog syndrome that we are experiencing at the moment," he said.
"You may not realise that we're already seeing some jobs disappear, for some jobs are being restructured because of automation and digitisation."
This is part one of a three part special by The Business and Business PM which looks at how automation will reshape the Australian workforce.
As the new financial year begins, West Australian household budgets are getting a helping hand from low petrol prices.
Over the past week, the national average price of unleaded petrol fell by 3.5 cents to 120.0 cents per litre, according to the Australian Institute of Petroleum.
In Perth, prices fell by 2.4 cents to 119.8 cents per litre, but in some areas they have fallen below $1 a litre.
Because global oil prices are low. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has been trying to keep a lid on production to boost prices, but its efforts have been stymied by US shale oil producers, who have boosted output — aided by better technology and lower costs.
"The world is well supplied with oil at this present time and that's essentially putting some downward pressure on global oil prices," CommSec senior economist Savanth Sebastian said.
"For motorists, they've got the double whammy effect of a stronger Australian dollar as well and that's helping to depress prices at the pump."
Under $1 is about as good as it will get. Much depends on the Australian dollar, which is relatively strong against its US counterpart right now. If that continues — and global demand remains constant — prices will stay low.
"If we see prices occasionally falling below $1 a litre and then just above it, I think that would be the norm over the next six months," Mr Sebastian said.
"Keep in mind that it's not going to last forever."
Probably for at least six months, provided other factors (production, global demand and currency exchange rates) remain constant.
"At present, it certainly looks like lower prices over the medium term," Mr Sebastian said.
Lack of investment by oil producers. If oil companies stopped investing in exploration and development of assets (or cut back substantially), that would put upward pressure on prices at the pump.
"I think if there's any risks to petrol prices it's really over the longer term with underinvestment in the oil sector, and that could potentially lead to higher prices down the track," Mr Sebastian said.
Consumer confidence should increase and retailers stand to benefit. Based on previous petrol cycles, lower prices tend to support higher consumer confidence.
"Petrol is the single biggest purchase made by households on a weekly basis, so when you do get falls in petrol prices it feeds through to substantial savings on the household budget," Mr Sebastian said.
"The hope is that it actually feeds through to retail activity.
"At the end of the day, if household finances are looking healthier, consumer confidence lifts and it should support what has been essentially a lacklustre retail market for the last couple of months."
Construction activity has continued to fall, while there seems to be some improvement in the labour market, according to the latest data.
The Bureau of Statistics reported that residential building approvals plunged by 5.6 per cent, seasonally adjusted, between April and May.
Compared to one year ago, there was a drop of 19.7 per cent.
The worse-than-expected result was driven by a sharp downturn in higher-density apartment approvals - which fell by 12.1 per cent over the previous month.
In fact, economists were only expecting the May construction figures to drop by around 1.3 per cent (over the previous month), and 14.1 per cent (over the previous year).
The value of approved building work was also flat, with a 3.3 per cent fall in residential building, while non-residential building lifted by 5.3 per cent.
"With approvals trending lower since mid-2016, it is clear the housing construction cycle has topped out, for now anyway," NAB economist Tapas Strickland said.
"However, it still remains unclear how long the high levels of residential construction will persist for in the period ahead given a still large pipeline of work and continuing strong population growth."
Commonwealth Bank senior economist Gareth Aird believes the latest data is evidence of a "downward trend".
"The data reaffirms our view that residential construction will be a drag on economic activity from the second half of 2017 having supported GDP growth over the past few years."
On a more positive note, the latest monthly report from ANZ Bank showed a lift in job advertisements last month.
Job ads rose 2.7 per cent to 175,091 in June, seasonally adjusted - compared to a 0.4 per cent increase the month before that.
For the year to date, the number of job ads increased by 4.9 per cent.

"Business conditions, profitability and capacity utilisation have been rising or sitting at elevated levels for the better part of a year," said David Plank, ANZ's head of Australian Economics.
"The strength of ANZ job ads over the first half of 2017 indicates this is translating into a positive outlook for the labour market."
Mr Plank believes the strength of the labour market - particularly the unemployment rate dropping to 5.5 per cent in the May quarter - would be a "key factor" in stabilising, and possibly lifting, consumer sentiment to avoid downside risks to the economy.
He also commented that a strong labour market would mean the Reserve Bank could "effectively disregard the weakness of GDP growth" in the first half of the year.
The company selling its Gippsland sawmill to the Victorian Government will focus on plans to set up in north-west Tasmania, indicating it will need more locals to fill jobs.
After failing to secure enough wood supply from Victoria's state-owned logger, Australian Sustainable Hardwoods (ASH) said it would shut-up shop in Gippsland and relocate to a site near Burnie.
The company has struck a deal with the Victorian Government to sell the site for use by another operator — which will keep 250 sawmiller jobs in Gippsland.
ASH director Clinton Tilley said the company could devote more time to drawing up plans for a Tasmanian operation.
"They haven't had a lot of work on them in the last month or two, courtesy of our spending time on the requirements for Heyfield with the Victorian State Government," he said.
"Obviously maintaining 250 jobs in Victoria is important and now we can focus our efforts creating jobs in Tasmania.
"We'd be looking to do a different product suite, and also have an entirely new workforce."
The company has identified a site and negotiated with Tasmanian operators to ensure it will have enough timber supply.
ASH has sold its machinery as part of the Victoria deal.
"We'd be looking to do an entirely new plant as a state-of-the-art operation," Mr Tilley said.
Tasmania's Resources Minister Guy Barnett said his office has been in contact with ASH as the news of its Heyfield sale broke.
"It is worth noting that today's announcement could mean that less Victorian employees would need to transfer to a Burnie operation, meaning more jobs for Tasmanians," he said.
"Their plans to establish in Burnie continue. We are hopeful, we are pleased to continue working with the company and we look forward to receiving their proposal."
It will likely be several months before a formal proposal is on the table.
Reserve Bank of Australia employees will receive average pay rises of just 2 per cent a year over the next three years - below the current rate of inflation and Treasury forecasts of inflation - despite the Reserve Bank governor encouraging workers to rise up and demand higher pay.
Workers who are meeting all the expectations of their role could still see their pay go backwards in real terms under the new RBA workplace agreement.
The three-year deal, which entered force today, provides for "a salary increase distributed from a pool of 2 per cent ... based on their individual performance".
RBA staff who "meet expectations" in their job will only receive annual pay rises of between 1-2 per cent, meaning they could suffer considerable real wage cuts after inflation.
High performers can get annual pay rises of between 2-5 per cent and there is also capacity to give lump sum payments to workers who exceed expectations under the performance management process.
Implementation of the RBA Workplace Agreement comes just a fortnight after the central bank boss Phil Lowe declared that Australia was beset by a "crisis" of low pay and encouraged workers to demand higher pay rises.
It appears that the need to adhere to Federal Government's Australian Public Sector bargaining framework constrained the ability of the RBA to grant higher pay rises, despite the views of its boss.
The APS bargaining framework caps pay rises at 2 per cent per annum, and then only in return for "productivity improvements" achieved by removing clauses from enterprise agreements.
The irony of RBA staff getting sub-inflation pay rises despite the central bank's concerns about a crisis of low pay highlights concerns voiced by labour market experts about how policy and legislation are undermining workers' scope to achieve pay gains.

"You've got government doing everything it can to prevent its own workers from getting a decent pay rise in the name of fiscal rectitude," Professor Andrew Stewart of Adelaide University, one of the nation's foremost employment law academics, told the ABC.
"We've seen competitive tendering of services which focus on costs rather than quality or local jobs.
"It's not only direct government employment - large numbers of workers in the community sector and other areas effectively rely on the Federal Government to fund their pay rises and its policies are limiting the ability of workers to achieve decent pay outcomes."
Many thousands of federal public servants have been denied wage increases for several years under the policy because they have been unwilling to accept the loss of conditions or enforceable rights that public sector agencies have demanded in return for relatively low pay rises.
A large majority of eligible staff voted in favour of the RBA's new pay deal.
Contractors on Sydney's WestConnex have handed the Berejiklian Government a $1 billion compensation bill, the New South Wales Opposition has said.
The demand is mentioned in a recent report which is marked "Cabinet-in-confidence" and has been made public by Labor leader Luke Foley.
While the report speculates Roads and Maritime Services should be able to reduce the bill substantially, Mr Foley said it showed the Government had botched planning on the project.
The claims are for variations in contracts, including unforeseen planning conditions and planning approval delays.
According to the documents, Roads and Maritime Services expects to be able to negotiate the claims down from $1 billion to between $180 and $340 million.
Mr Foley said the revelations were evidence the Government's handling had made the $16.8 billion project "shambolic".
"The Premier says this is her strong suit, this is what she does well, I'd hate to see what she's weak at," he said.
He said the documents also revealed the first part of the project, the widening of the M4 from Parramatta to Homebush, was running behind time and over budget.
"You just shudder to think what the status will be of the more complex stages of WestConnex," he said.
Labor's Planning and Infrastructure spokesman Michael Daley said the Government was designing the toll road as it went.
"There's a way of doing these things that protects the public purse and this Government has just turned the process on its head," he said.
"They're like a big arrogant bull at a gate and their arrogance and their mistakes are being born by the taxpayer."
Mr Foley said the Government should have released all of the WestConnex documents itself.
"If it takes whistle blowers within Government alarmed at the cover-ups to leak these revelations to the State Opposition, then we'll happily share those … over the coming days."
Minister for WestConnex Stuart Ayres has denied Labor's claims that there is a massive cost blowout on the project.
Mr Ayres said compensation claims by contractors had been factored in to the cost of the motorway.
"Anyone who delivers large-scale infrastructure projects knows you need to budget for claims variations and compensations in your overall budget and that's exactly what the Government has done," he said.
Fairfax shares have been smashed after it failed to entice private equity buyers to part with their cash to take over the media and real estate company.

With no buyer, Fairfax Media is pressing ahead with a spin-off of its real estate classifieds division Domain into a separate entity.
Fairfax's share price fell sharply - to a three-month low - following these latest developments.
At 11:53am (AEST), Fairfax shares were trading 11.6 per cent lower at 97.25 cents.
In a statement to the market, Fairfax said its top priority was "investing to grow and further strengthen the Domain Group".
Fairfax chief executive Greg Hywood said the company has "progressed all the necessary regulatory approvals to meet our timetable for completion [of separating Domain from Fairfax] by the end of 2017".
Domain is the desirable part of Fairfax, which attracted the private equity interest, given that it was the only growing part of the company in the second half of the 2016-17 financial year.
Domain's overall revenue rose 10 per cent "with its total digital business up 22 per cent and accelerating".
Fairfax also announced its plans, last week, to enter the lucrative mortgage broking business in July - with the launch of Domain Loan Finder.
The company is expecting pre-tax earnings between $262 million -$266 million (for the full year ended June 30), and overall second-half revenue to be 6 per cent lower that what it earned in the 2015-16 financial year.
Its other business divisions - including Australian Community, Macquarie Radio and New Zealand Media - operated at a loss during this period.
However, the sharpest drop in revenue (12 per cent) was seen in its Australian Metro Media division - which publishes The Sydney Morning Herald, Australian Financial Review and The Age.
Back in May, Fairfax announced it would cut 125 journalist jobs - around a quarter of its newsroom - to cut costs, which triggered a one-week worker strike.
Another of Fairfax's priorities is "driving growth" in its subscription video-on-demand joint-venture with Nine, Stan, which it expects to break-even next year.
The company said it "has ceased discussions" with its suitors - private equity firms TPG Capital and Hellman & Friedman - in regards to a potential takeover bid.
Both firms expressed interest in buying Fairfax in May, with no guarantees that their indicative proposals would result in firm offers.
TPG confirmed on Sunday that it had ditched its plans to buy Fairfax for $2.76 billion after examining the media company's books.
Hellman & Friedman also wrote to Fairfax, stating it was still interested in making an offer but has not yet submitted a formal bid.
Hellman's previous non-binding approach was worth up to $2.87 billion (valuing Fairfax at as much as $1.25 per share).
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi left many confused when he finished a speech to the music of Darth Vader's Imperial March from the Star Wars saga.
Addressing a crowd at the Institute of Chartered Accountants on Saturday, Mr Modi introduced the new Goods and Services Tax, which has been described as the biggest tax reform since the country became independent 70 years ago.
Psyching up a crowd at New Delhi's Indira Gandhi Stadium for a spiel on tax reformation is a hard task — which could explain the Prime Minister's soundtrack choice.
Mr Modi closed his speech by waving to the crowd as the Imperial March boomed across the stadium.
What seemed like Mr Modi trying to liven up his speech, caught viewers around the country by surprise.


But the finale was not the first time Mr Modi referenced the sci-fi series of films. The Prime Minister ended a speech at Central Park, New York, in September 2014 by wishing the crowd: "May the force be with you."

The introduction of a nationwide goods and services tax was marked by a star-studded event.
It was first proposed under a previous congress-led government but it has been realised by the current Prime Minister, who has promised dramatic reform to support business and boost the economy.
Supporters say it unifies India in a single market, will help to tackle corruption and force more businesses to comply with tax rules.
Opponents say it is an extra burden for many small traders and they predict a bumpy road ahead.
A seasonal rebound in Sydney and Melbourne lifted capital city home prices last month, but the analyst behind the figures said the trend is still for slower growth.
CoreLogic's monthly figures showed a 1.8 per cent surge in capital city prices over June, more than erasing May's 1.1 per cent fall.
But CoreLogic research director Tim Lawless said both figures reflect a large degree of seasonality.
"We generally do see a bit of a bounce back over the month of June," Mr Lawless told the ABC.
Instead, he said it was better to focus on the June quarter figures, which showed an average capital city price rise of 0.8 per cent over the past three months.
That is the slowest quarterly rate of growth since December 2015, when capital city prices fell by 1.4 per cent.
Mr Lawless acknowledged that the June quarter is typically weaker than the March quarter, as the most sought after properties typically clear early in the autumn selling season.

However, he said there are a number of other factors that resulted in weaker price growth over the past three months.
"We're seeing mortgage rates rising now at a time when household debt levels have never been this high, and it suggests households are becoming much more sensitive to these rate rises," he said.
"Particularly investors, that's where most of the rate rises are happening, as well as interest-only loans, and that's also happening on the back of record low rental yields in Melbourne and also in Sydney."
However, while price growth in Sydney and Melbourne is still outpacing rent rises, Mr Lawless said that gap is starting to close.
"Both those markets are seeing rents rising at around 4-5 per cent per annum," he observed.
"Despite the fact that we're seeing so much supply coming into Sydney and Melbourne, the very strong rate of population growth does seem to be putting some downwards pressure on vacancies.
"And now I think we are seeing a renewed level of effort from landlords to try to recover some of the costs of higher mortgage rates and pushing that onto the rental market."
Recent estimates around Australia's housing supply versus population growth suggest that Sydney is probably the only market with a housing shortage, while Melbourne appears reasonably balanced considering its current rapid population growth.

Beyond Sydney and Melbourne's continued double-digit population growth and strong annual rises for Canberra and Hobart, the other capital cities are relatively flat to falling.
Outside the capitals, Mr Lawless said it was so-called "lifestyle markets", such as the Gold Coast and Byron Bay, that were performing better.
"We are seeing value growth upwards of 5 per cent, even more than 10 per cent [per annum] in those markets," he observed.
"Whereas the resource driven markets do seem to be levelling out a little bit now after some fairly steep declines."
The Victorian Government has struck a deal to keep open Australia's largest hardwood sawmill, at Heyfield in Victoria's east, but workers are warning up to 20 contractors could be out of work in weeks.

The mill's operator, Australian Sustainable Hardwoods (ASH), had been locked in a dispute with the Government and state-owned logging company VicForests over the amount of timber supplied to the mill.
In March, the company announced the mill's closure, and last month said the shutdown would begin in August, prompting a series of workers' protests outside State Parliament.
But in a statement this morning, Agriculture Minister Jaala Pulford said the Government had reached an in-principle agreement with ASH shareholders to buy the mill, subject to due diligence checks.
"The Labor Government has reached agreement with the ASH shareholders to buy the Heyfield Timber Mill," the statement read.
"We've always said we would fight for every job. That doesn't mean industries won't change — but Victorian workers can know that this Labor Government is on their side.
"Importantly, [owner] the Hermal Group has confirmed there will be no job losses while contractual negotiations are finalised."
About 250 staff were expected to lose their jobs if the plant closed.

Anthony Wilkes, a shift supervisor who has worked at the mill for 13 years, welcomed the announcement but said job losses were inevitable if timber supply was reduced.
"People need to be aware and [it needs to be] made quite clear there still will be job losses," he said.

Mr Wilkes said reduced shifts could see 15 to 20 contractors, who were currently employed by Gippsland-based recruitment agency GBS, out of work in the "next five or six weeks".
Mill workers were due to be briefed on the deal on Monday afternoon.
The region is still dealing with the loss of hundreds of jobs after the closure of the Hazelwood Power Station, and the Heyfield mill is the small town's biggest employer.
Clinton Tilley, a director at ASH, would not comment on how workers would be affected but said the company and the State Government "remained motivated" to keep jobs at the mill.
"Despite what's played out in the press there's always been goodwill at the table between the two parties," he added.
ASH has indicated it will seek to set up another operation near Burnie in Tasmania.
The dispute centred on a move by the state logging agency, VicForests, to slash the mill's timber supply from 130,000 cubic metres to 80,000 cubic metres.
Last month, the company announced plans to make 50 positions redundant by August.
Ms Pulford said the mill's existing managers would remain in charge under the Government's plan, adding that due diligence checks would take about three weeks.
She would not reveal how much the mill would cost the Government should the sale go ahead.
"This is a very viable business. The transfer of ownership will set this mill up for a very solid future," Ms Pulford told ABC Gippsland.
"The Government said we would be the buyer of last resort. We're very confident the mill can have a good and strong future."

The ASH mill at Heyfield is the largest hardwood sawmill in Australia.
In June, ASH rejected a purchase offer from the State Government, saying it did not recognise the value of the site and its equipment.
"No fair commercial offer has been forthcoming from the Andrews Government," ASH said in a statement at the time.
Later that month, the company entered negotiations with the Tasmanian Government about a possible move.
CFMEU forestry division spokeswoman Jane Calvert said news of the sale would come as a relief to workers, their families and the community.
"It is a bold move for a government to buy a sawmill and a huge decision for the Hermal Group to agree to sell their asset," she said.
"But no matter who owns the mill it still needs a long-term wood supply.
"We will now seek urgent talks with the Government in order to secure a future wood supply for our members across the industry in Victoria including our members at the Heyfield mill."

The looming closure of the mill had become a major political issue, spilling into the federal arena.
Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce wrote to the Premier urging him to protect jobs by reviewing the status of the endangered Leadbeater's possum, which had put some logging areas off limits.
But Professor David Lindenmayer from the Australian National University criticised Mr Joyce's suggestion, saying any downgrade of the possum's classification would be "absolute insanity".

A vacation club run by international hotel chain Accor has been accused of charging exorbitant fees for holidays that often cannot be accessed, and targeting terminally ill cancer patients.
A former Gold Coast saleswoman for the Accor Vacation Club, Alicia Dunn, said the club works by charging a joining fee of up to $50,000, with members offered loans through the vacation club to pay for the fee.
In exchange they have access to the club's properties across Australia and Bali for a holiday each year.
But she said many of the hotels and resorts book out 12 months in advance.
"A lot of the members I spoke to over the phone when I attempted to upgrade them to a higher level of membership were actually in tears," she said.
"They were offended and horrified that I had the gall and the hide to actually try and sell them something they had never been able to use in their 16 years of membership."
Ms Dunn said she attended a "pump-up" session for staff, where a cancer patient was used as an example of a person they could sell to.
She said it was suggested that "even people dying of cancer had a need to upgrade their membership".

Perth retiree Judy Toop was an Accor Vacation Club member for 10 years.
She and her husband spent about $35,000 over 10 years paying for their membership fee and annual maintenance bills.
For that amount Mrs Toop said they had about three or four holidays within Western Australia.
"An awful lot of money for nothing," she said.
She said they needed to book holidays at short notice because of her husband's work, but they had trouble getting into accommodation.
"You can't just think 'oh, let's go to New Zealand next week love, we'll have a look where we can go with Accor'. You probably couldn't get in," she said.
Mrs Toop and her husband had to use their superannuation to pay out their loan, and could only get $1 for their membership when they sold it.
She is not the only person who found it hard to get out of the club.
Former Melbourne member Tony Dimitriou twice asked Accor for help to leave his membership and loan after he lost his job.
Mr Dimitriou said the company continued to demand payment even after he explained his financial position.
"I sent them a screen shot of the bank account and very sadly I only had $37 in the account," he said.
"I sent that out and said I can't meet that obligation and I tried to negotiate paying a lesser amount."
In December last year the Financial Ombudsman found the operator of the vacation club failed to give genuine consideration to Mr Dimitriou's financial hardship and provided misleading information.
It was ordered to pay him $7,000.
Accor Vacation Club chief executive Craig Wood declined to be interviewed by the ABC.
In a written statement he said "we are very disappointed to hear a small group of our members are not satisfied".
"We have a clear focus on the guest and on customer service and it is for this reason we continually look at ways of improving our products and services," he said.
Erin Turner, the head of policy for consumer rights group Choice said vacation clubs such as Accor needed to be better regulated by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission.
"They are often giving personal financial advice but they are often exempt from a lot of the protections consumers have against dodgy financial advice," she said.
"It's really an absurd, archaic way of selling, it feels really 1980s but it's happening today."
She said the aggressive sales techniques need to be curbed and the contracts need to be easier for customers to understand.
Donald Trump was running for the US presidency when he personally raised with senior Indonesian politicians the need to have a toll road completed in Indonesia to benefit a massive new resort development in which he later invested.

A senior Indonesian politician who met Mr Trump in New York in 2015 has revealed to Four Corners that he made clear the project would only go ahead if the toll road was completed.
"He was saying that it's impossible without the toll road," Fadli Zon, the deputy speaker of Indonesia's Parliament, said.
Mr Zon, together with the speaker of the Indonesian House of Representatives, Setya Novanto, met with then presidential-hopeful Mr Trump in September 2015 during the presidential primary campaign at Trump Tower in New York.
The meeting, unauthorised by the Indonesian Government, was held with the direct assistance of Mr Trump's new Indonesian business partner, Hary Tanoesoedibjo, known as Hary Tanoe.

At the time, Mr Trump and Mr Tanoe were in negotiations over the development of a mega-resort and an associated theme park, sky train, and Formula One racing track on a 3,000-hectare site on the island of Java, south of the capital Jakarta.
"He [Trump] said he really understood well about the situation. For example, this theme park in Bogor area that needs some highway … because sometimes it's impossible to go there," Mr Zon said.
Congested roads in the region can turn the 70-kilometre car ride from Jakarta into a nightmarish two-or-three-hour journey.
One week after the New York meeting, Mr Trump signed the deal to develop the Trump International Hotel and Tower Lido.
The construction of the toll road, which had been started then delayed in June 2015, resumed in November.
The Government took over the construction in June 2016 and the first section is due for completion by the end of the year.

Mr Zon said he estimated that with the impending completion of the toll road, Mr Trump and Mr Tanoe had already tripled their value of the resort land.
"Yeah. I think the price increase like three times," he said.
The President's latest financial disclosure, released on June 14, stated that the management fees from the Indonesian companies tied to the Bali and Lido resorts had more than doubled.
The latest disclosure puts the fees at $US380,000, up from the $US167,000 he reported in 2016.

The head of Human Right Watch Indonesia, Andreas Harsono, said he thought the meeting between the Indonesian politicians and Mr Trump was unethical.
"It is not appropriate for any business to ask the Government to pay for an access toll road into their property," he told Four Corners.
"Unfortunately, it is common in Indonesia. You can change a road direction as you can extend a toll road or bridges or whatever to benefit people who have money, who have interest.
"This is a marriage between politician and business people.
"It is common, it is very common in Indonesia."

Mr Zon and Mr Novanto were both investigated by a parliamentary ethics committee over whether the meeting with Mr Trump violated strict Indonesian government codes.
The result of that investigation has never been made public, but both walked away with only a warning.
In November, two months after the New York meeting, Mr Novanto was embroiled in a massive corruption scandal, accused of attempting to extort a $US4 billion payment from American mining giant Freeport-McMoRan.
Mr Novanto denied the accusation, claiming he was "just joking".
He was never formally charged.
Mr Trump and Mr Tanoe's first controversial Indonesian venture was in Bali.
The resort, planned as the largest on the island, will overlook one of the most iconic and sacred sites — the temple of Tanah Lot.

The existing low-scale Bali Nirwana golf course and resort will close at the end of the month.
Hundreds of local workers will be laid off and demolition is due to start next month.
MNC Group bought the Bali Nirwana resort in 2013 from the Bakrie Group, owned by one of the Suharto family's business associates.
The Trump Organisation signed up in August 2015 to the redevelopment of the site.
Not a lot of detail is known about the plans for the second Tanoe/Trump development, Trump International Hotel and Tower Bali.
When Four Corners confronted the local regional governor Ebu Eka Wiryastuti about what had been approved by the local government, she refused to answer questions.
"I can't talk about this. I cannot talk about this. At all," she said.
"It's a big complex, more than 100 hectares, to build a hotel, villas, condominiums, also to build a country club — that is also with Mr Trump," Mr Tanoe told the ABC in January.

The Trump Organisation will manage the hotel, country clubs and golf courses with the Trump family heavily involved in the project.
Mr Tanoe outlined the project to the ABC in March and said each of the family members had a different role.
"Donald Jr is responsible for the overall project. Eric is more on the design and golf, and Ivanka is more on the detail, like the fit-out of the hotel," he said.
Mr Harsono has warned that doing business in Indonesia may come at a cost for Mr Trump.
"I'm not going to say Donald Trump is unethical man, but he is dealing with the worse of Indonesia past, and he is going to deal with the worst of Indonesia future," he said.
"I think Donald Trump is going to get his businesses messier and also Indonesia messier.
"This is going to be a messier place."
Watch The Company He Keeps on Four Corners at 8:30pm on ABC.
US investment company TPG Capital has abandoned its $2.76-billion bid to take over Fairfax Media, clearing the way for rival bidder Hellman & Friedman to make an offer.
TPG confirmed on Sunday that it had ditched plans to buy the owner of The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age and property classifieds business Domain, after looking at Fairfax's books.
"TPG has today exited the Fairfax due diligence process and has elected not to proceed with an offer," a spokesman said in a statement.
"TPG thanks the board and senior management team of Fairfax for the integrity and focus they have brought to the discussions."
TPG and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board originally made a bid for Fairfax in May, initially offering 95 cents a share and quickly increasing it to $1.20.
Rival suitor Hellman & Friedman soon followed with an offer valued at between $1.225 and $1.25 a share, valuing Fairfax at up to $2.87 billion.

The Australian Financial Review (AFR) reported that TPG wrote to Fairfax chairman Nick Falloon on Sunday to tell him of its decision to walk away.
Hellman & Friedman has also written to Fairfax indicating it is still interested in making an offer but has yet to submit a binding bid, according to the Fairfax-owned AFR.
Both had been carrying out due diligence on Fairfax for much of the past month and were given until last Friday to submit formal offers.
But TPG decided to pull out amid concerns about the future valuations of Domain, the AFR reported.
"Fairfax had planned to spin off the assets but a serious professional investor in TPG has made clear the future of the business is not as bullish as the company has indicated," it said.
Some Fairfax shareholders have said the company could be worth up to $4 billion if it successfully spins off Domain (the only majorly profitable and growing division), which would be significantly more than the $2.7–2.9 billion flagged by the private equity firms.
The AFR said Fairfax was expected to announce plans to do so on Monday.
Key investor Thorney Opportunities backs that idea, and chairman Alex Waislitz wrote in an update to shareholders last week that the takeover approaches from TPG and Hellman & Friedman undervalued Fairfax.
Shares in Fairfax fell 10 cents, or 8.3 per cent, to close at $1.10 last Friday.
A Fairfax spokesperson was not immediately available for comment.
ABC/wires
Slower queues outside nightclubs have been described as "teething problems" by police and the Queensland Government, who have lauded the law and order results of the first official night of compulsory ID scanning.
As of July 1, people looking for a drink inside key Queensland venues after 10:00pm must have their identification scanned on entry.
The technology allows venues to share information about problematic patrons and prevent them from re-entering another club or bar — a decision made by the Queensland Government to combat alcohol-fuelled violence.
Almost 90,000 IDs were checked at 180 venues in 15 Safe Night Precincts in Brisbane and regional centres, after trial runs on Friday night and last weekend.
Attorney-General Yvette D'Ath said seven people on banning orders for violence or drug trafficking were flagged trying to enter clubs, compared with 22 contraventions during a trial a week ago.
"That means on the first night of the new system, the message has got through to people on banning orders loud and clear," Ms D'Ath said.
"It is early days but these are very satisfying figures to hear after just one night of ID scanners officially operating.
"If this system only prevented one family from dealing with the aftermath of a tragedy this morning, it is already worth it."
She said only three assaults were reported last night in the 15 precincts, significantly down on previous numbers.

Police Inspector Rhys Wildman admitted there was some frustration by staff and patrons last night in Fortitude Valley and on the Gold Coast.
"But let's not forget this system has just come online and the outcomes were just exceptional," he said.
Many clubs in Brisbane's Fortitude Valley reluctantly tried out the scanners for the first time on Friday night, and received a backlash from patrons.
Single security guards at smaller venues have been overwhelmed with the extra work, with one bouncer describing himself to the ABC as a "glorified babysitter" because he was not allowed to leave his post.
Acting Assistant Commissioner Brent Carter said slower queues would improve.
"Some of the venues only had the equipment installed very recently and staff were still trying to get their heads around how to operate the scanners," he said.
"But I think over time they're just teething problems and I think on the first night it was a pretty good start."
In Rockhampton, visiting US service personnel were reportedly frustrated by having to use their passports to satisfy the new ID laws.
Ms D'Ath said different date formats meant details could not be scanned and had to be entered manually.
"There are some issues with the equipment in relation to particularly New Zealand and US identification," she said.
"That's something that the operators are aware of and looking to rectify very quickly."
Need a holiday? Here's some good news: some in the airline industry predict the cost of air travel will continue to drop.
In an interview to mark 20 years since the privatisation of Melbourne Airport, chief executive Lyell Strambi said the news for passengers was good.
"If you look at air travel pricing over the long run we'll see the prices continually come down, and airports are part of that story," he said.
He said airport investment in infrastructure such as automated terminals helped push costs down for airlines.
"For us to be successful we need airlines to be successful," he said.
"For airlines to be successful they need to be driving cheaper and cheaper fares for their customers for the given level of quality they want to achieve.
"The traveller yields the benefit for that with lower fares."
The number of people using Melbourne Airport has more than doubled - from nearly 14 million people a year in 1997 to more than 35 million people over the past 12 months.

Mr Strambi said he expected that growth to continue, and for the number of passengers to double again over the next 20 years.
In order to keep up with that growth, the airport is in the early stages of planning for a fifth terminal.
"If you think about the demand for the airport growing or doubling over the next 20 years then clearly more terminal facilities are going to be required," Mr Strambi said.
He said the airport would continue to push state and federal governments for a rail link to the airport, but it was not clear whether any new rail line would link to the existing services.
Until then, he would not say whether the airport would contribute to funding it.
"I think we'll defer that decision until we do those key pieces of work that need to be done now - what are we trying to solve, what is the best investment for those puzzles that we're trying to answer?" Mr Strambi said.

In May, a Malaysia Airlines flight was forced to turn back to the airport after a man tried to enter the cockpit with what police described as a "speaker-like" object.

Mr Strambi said the airport was constantly reviewing its security procedures.
"The thing we have to remember with the Malaysia Airlines scare was that the security system actually did work, there was no device that got on to the aircraft that shouldn't have got on to the aircraft," he said.
He said the airport was working closely with the Government to ensure the safety of passengers.
"We do know that the terrorist threat is ever evolving and ever changing, and we work incredibly closely with the Department of Transport Safety to make sure we're up with the latest trends and requirements," he said.
The sudden shift to central bank hawkishness certainly ruffled the feathers of global markets this week.
Wall Street recovered some ground on Friday, Europe didn't. Futures markets point to the ASX recovering a bit from the $28 billion mauling it received at the end of the week.

While it felt like a fairly ugly week locally, the ASX was one of the few global markets to make a gain, albeit marginal.
The 0.1 per cent rise over the week was largely thanks to the unexpected commodities rally which saw iron ore jump 14 per cent, while oil was up 3 per cent.
Wall Street slipped 0.6 per cent and Europe was down 2.6 per cent.
While the cauldron — or more correctly, kettle — of hawkishness bubbled up in the US, Canada and Britain, Europe lit the flame.
"Most significantly, uber-dove (ECB president) Mario Draghi suggested that deflationary forces [in Europe] have been replaced by reflationary ones," BetaShares chief economist David Bassanese noted.
Mr Bassanese argued the move to raising rates should be embraced, not feared.
"A broadening in monetary policy normalisation across the world would be a very healthy development.
"Despite persistent low inflation, the steady decline in unemployment rates in Europe, the United States and Japan suggest 'emergency' policy settings are clearly no longer needed."
So will the RBA take flight with the hawks at the board meeting on Tuesday? Probably not.
Futures trading has priced in only a 2 per cent chance of a cut. Longer term, the betting is the next movement is up, with a full 25 basis point rise priced in by around October next year.

Deutsche Bank's Adam Boyton said there was some scope for the RBA to tinker with its statement to edge to the hawkish side of the fence from its neutral stance, but it was probably not ready yet.
"If there are shifts these can, in our view, only be in the hawkish direction," Mr Boyton said.
"Despite what the Bank does in the statement next week, our own views on the outlook for the cash rate are unlikely to change.
"We doubt the Bank would move rates ahead of seeing some broader signs across wages, GDP growth and inflation that the economy was panning out as they expect."
UBS economist Scott Haslem shares that view, but argued a fair bit of the RBA's work was being done for it by the banks' out-of-cycle lifting of rates.
"The RBA still clearly has the most influence over monetary policy in Australia, with a direct influence on borrowing rates via changes in the cash rate," Mr Haslem said.
The RBA pulled the emergency rates lever in the aftermath of the GFC. The banks have been less generous.
The gap between the RBA and the average, economy-wide private sector borrowing rate has doubled since 2007 to around 350 basis points.
The difference is even larger for property investors on interest-only loans.

APRA's demand the banks for the banks to throttle back on riskier property loans is targeted, and works out nicely for the RBA.
"It appears likely monetary policy will continue to target housing through macroprudential measures (driven by APRA), rather than the RBA using the blunt tool of cash rate hikes," Mr Haslem said.
"Hence, the 'structural' widening of borrowing rates versus the RBA — combined with record leverage — argues that the long-run 'neutral' cash rate in Australia is likely now lower at around 2.75 per cent (not 3 per cent as previously assumed)."
In other words, the RBA is in less of a rush to start its hike back to "normal" as it is that much easier to get there.
The economic calendar is pretty busy this week, with readings across property, retail, manufacturing and trade.
Monday sees the release of the RP Data-Core Logic house price index, which has of late pointed to a definite cooling in the market. Building approvals are out too, and while volatile, the focus will be on the apartment sector.
Retail sales — which has become a something of weakness in the economy, allied to low wage growth and high household debt — will be out on Tuesday.
The trade balance on Wednesday should show another surplus. Not the giddy heights expected earlier in the year, but better than entrenched deficits of previous years.
AiG spreads its industry-focused surveys over the week, starting with manufacturing (Monday), then  services (Wednesday) and construction (Friday).
Overseas, the minutes of the Federal Reserve and ECB should make for interesting reading, given what appears to be a coordinated approach from the big central banks to raise expectations that rates are going up.
The key things from the Fed's musings will be how it looks through persistently low inflation and still feel comfortable raising rates and whether there are any more insights into concerns about rather frothy equity markets.
In Europe, after the debate about what ECB boss Mario Draghi meant last week, markets will be looking for greater clarity whether the banks stands with the hawks or doves.
However, the highlight of the week may be at the G20 summit in Germany, where US President Donald Trump is set to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin. The undercard is German Chancellor Angela Merkel meeting China's President Xi Jinping.
In China, the unofficial manufacturing survey — the Caixin PMI, which focuses more on small to medium enterprises than the official PMI — is out on Monday.
The previous reading was contractionary. It will be interesting to compare it with the state-controlled PMI from last week which was surprisingly strong.
The key numbers in the US are on Friday — jobs and wages.
Non-farm payrolls are expected to have grown by 180,000 in June, the unemployment rate steady at 4.3 per cent and wages may have edged up a tad.
Monday
3/7/17
Tuesday
4/7/17
Wednesday
5/7/17
Thursday
6/7/17
Friday
7/7/17
Monday
3/7/17
Tuesday
4/7/17
Wednesday
5/7/17
Thursday
6/7/17
Friday
7/7/17
Federal Labor is using the first weekend of phased-in cuts to Sunday penalty rates to again pressure the Government to protect workers' pay.

Earlier this year, the Fair Work Commission ruled Sunday penalty rates should be cut, bringing them into line with Saturday rates for workers in the retail and hospitality sector.
Those cuts are to be phased in over three years, with the first adjustments starting this weekend.
Labor's employment spokesman Brendan O'Connor claimed up to 700,000 workers would be affected, and called on the Coalition to back Labor's bill to reinstate Sunday penalty rates.

He denied Labor's bill undermined the independence of the Fair Work Commission, opening it up to being overruled on any decision the government of its day did not agree with.
"The Parliament has already made precedence in intervening in independent umpires, and it's not unusual for parliaments to, for example, legislate having not supported an outcome in a judicial decision," he said.
Earlier, Opposition Leader Bill Shorten pledged to pass the legislation to reverse the cuts within the first 100 days of a Labor government.
Mr O'Connor argued Malcolm Turnbull had form on the matter, passing legislation to abolish the Road Safety Remuneration Tribunal (RSRT) after it faced fierce criticism of a pay order that some owner-operated businesses said would force them off the road.
"In this Parliament, over the last few years, there has already been a set precedent to intervene in decisions of independent umpires when it comes to industrial relations matters. That was set by the Prime Minister," he said.
Labor was opposed to abolishing the RSRT.
Employment Minister Michaelia Cash said that tribunal was set up merely as a political ploy, and was a different proposition to a Fair Work Commission decision.
Senator Cash said Mr Shorten's policy would harm small businesses, who benefit from the FWC decision to "level the playing field" with larger businesses who can more afford penalty rates.
"Bill Shorten has today shown that if he is ever elected to govern this country, he will be the worst enemy that small business could ever ask for," Senator Cash said.
"Small business, the biggest employer in Australia, employ millions and millions of Australia who'll basically have no future under a Labor government."
The Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) claimed the Fair Work Commission's ruling was out of touch with community expectations.
"The rules are broken, and the rules have to change when those rules allow for low-paid people in this country to be forced to take a pay cut. That's the last thing that they need," ACTU President Ged Kearney said.
She urged businesses not to pass on the rate cut.
The promoter behind a failed music festival in the Bahamas that cost more than $US12,000 a ticket has been arrested in New York on a wire fraud charge.
Billy McFarland was charged with scheming to defraud investors in his company, Fyre Media, and the Fyre Festival that was supposed to take place on the island of Exuma over two weekends in April and May.
McFarland and his business partner, rapper Ja Rule, are already facing more than a dozen lawsuits filed by ticket buyers and investors in the festival.
The Fyre Festival was billed as an ultra-luxurious event with headliners including Blink-182 and hip-hop act Migos, but performers bowed out and organisers were forced to cancel the show.
Acting US attorney Joon Kim said McFarland presented fake documents to convince investors to put more than $US1 million into his company and the failed festival.
"[McFarland] promised a 'life-changing' music festival but in actuality delivered a disaster," Mr Kim said.

An attorney who has represented McFarland did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Attendees paid more than $US12,000 for the weekend event, but arrived to mass disorganisation at the half-built music festival site.

A statement from organisers cited "circumstances out of our control" for the inability to prepare the "physical infrastructure" for the event.
Photos on social media showed tents, wooden stalls and portable toilets had been brought in for the festival, rather than the luxury facilities that were advertised.
A lawsuit filed in May in Los Angeles said the festival was "nothing more than a get-rich-quick scam" akin to a Ponzi scheme.
Ja Rule, whose real name is Jeffrey Atkins, has not been arrested.
McFarland, 25, is expected to appear before a federal magistrate judge over the weekend.
He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison if convicted.
AP
For two of Australia's richest men, the newest business catchphrase appears to be "show me the honey".
Billionaires Andrew Forrest and Kerry Stokes already have competing business interests in beef and resources, but now they are putting their money behind the humble bee and a growing international appreciation for the high quality of Australian honey.
Mr Forrest's Minderoo Group plans to start exporting premium WA honey under its Harvest Road brand to China, as well as other Asian countries, and the Middle East within a month.
With a stake worth about $29 million, Mr Stokes, via his company Wroxby Pty Ltd, is by far the biggest shareholder in the ASX-listed Capilano Honey, which dominates the domestic market but is also keen to tap into international demand.

Long-time industry players believe the decision by the businessmen to shift into honey is a sign of an industry on the rise.
For third-generation Oldbury beekeeper Stephen Davies, who will supply Harvest Road, Minderoo's decision to export high-quality honey gives him even more confidence in the international potential for the WA product.
He already sells his honey overseas but believes the growing recognition of the high purity and health benefits of some WA varieties, like jarrah, shows they can compete with New Zealand's successful manuka honey, which is renowned for its antibacterial properties.
"Manuka is now a billion-dollar industry. I think WA can exceed that," he said.
"This is a huge thing for our industry."
For Minderoo's investment manager John Hartman the move into honey is about meeting a demand for premium Australian products and taking advantage of the international supply chains established by his Harvey Beef brand, which is sold into more than 40 countries.
Speaking from his Beijing office, Mr Hartman said the company was focusing on monofloral varieties of honey, such as jarrah and redgum, which were gaining increasing recognition for their health benefits.
"The jarrah honey industry is at the really early stages of understanding the medicinal benefits it might hold," he said.
"Western Australia has a reputation, certainly throughout Australia, for having some of the best quality honey because of their quarantine restrictions.
"Research suggests that bees in Western Australia are some of the healthiest bees in the world."
Mr Davies even goes as far as describing WA as the "last bee-keeping oasis left on the whole planet".
He said strict quarantine laws meant its bees were unaffected by pests and diseases, leaving honey untainted by antibiotics or pesticides.
Mr Davies has also put his money and faith in the industry's future, investing $2.5 million in a new manufacturing facility for his business which produces about 200 tonnes of honey a year.
A WA parliamentary inquiry into the cost of regional airfares will not deliver lower prices, according to community leaders and analysts.
Anger is building across regional areas over the price of air travel, with many residents fares have never been so high.
When the Broome-based Tick family decided to send 15-year-old Talulah away to boarding school in Perth they vowed to bring her home at the end of every term to ease the transition.
But her mother Mardi Tick now has to break that promise.
"Unfortunately the price of the airfares is so high I haven't been able to deliver on that," she said.
It spurred Ms Tick to start the Broome Airfare Action Group, campaigning for a better deal for residents.
"So many people have said to me 'it is too expensive, I can't go to these things I can't go and see a concert, I can't go and see my family, I can't even afford a ticket to Perth to be able to buy a cheaper international ticket to go overseas on a holiday'."


Residents in Karratha pay about $700 for a flexible one-way flight to Perth.
Shane Dow and his family travel from the Pilbara to Perth six times a year to take his toddler to hospital.
He said it was becoming a bigger financial burden.
"It is not very affordable especially as of two years we have got to pay her ticket as well so it is very expensive to go anywhere," Mr Dow said.
He believes prices are going up.
Kalgoorlie Boulder chief executive John Walker said airfares to and from Kalgoorlie seemed to have risen significantly over the past year.
Analysis of flights to Perth over the past three months showed the average cost of a return flight was $820.
"That's outrageous," he said.
The City of Kalgoorlie-Boulder has threatened to start its own airline if Qantas and Virgin do not lower their fares.

"There [are] a lot of regulatory hurdles, we understand that. But when you pay $820 to fly on Virgin or Qantas for a weekend, maybe there's a Kalgoorlie airplane that flies weekend routes. It's unlikely but it's something that we need to explore," Mr Walker said.
"We think they are gouging the residents to fill the plane after they have done their corporate deals with fly-in, fly-out people, who obviously have no contribution to the local community ... whereas the local people who do their business here are penalised."
Mr Walker said the council welcomed the recently-announced parliamentary inquiry into regional airfares, but was sceptical about how much it could achieve.
"The Government can uncover what they like, but in an open-skies environment a company is free to price how it wants," he said.
Led by the Economics and Industry Standing Committee, the inquiry will look at what factors are contributing to high airfare prices, as well as the cost to communities, businesses and tourism.
Kimberley MP Josie Farrer said the State Government needed to "sit down and listen" to regional residents.
"I think it is vital for all of us that we have our say ... small businesses in particular," she said.
Both Qantas and Virgin Australia have said they will work with the inquiry.
Qantas said the per-kilometre cost for smaller aircraft, which were used in WA, was significantly higher.
"We face a higher cost base in WA than other parts of the network, including high airport charges in remote WA," the airline said in a statement.
Virgin said its airfare pricing was driven by many factors including demand, competition, operating costs, and airport pricing and taxes.
Virgin stopped flying to Albany last year.
Since then, the State Government has struck a deal with New South Wales-based airline Regional Express Airlines (Rex) to fly from Esperance and Albany, hoping for more competitive fares.
The airline offers $129 fares on the eve of departure, saying the community fare scheme had already "revolutionised" regional travel.
Curtin Business School lecturer Michael Baird said while public sentiment around regional travel in Western Australia was not good, most airlines were prepared to wear it.
"I'm sure if we did some analysis of social media it would be terrible when you're talking about regional flights in Western Australia," he said.
"Does the airline care? That's a completely different question.
"The airline could do things to rectify this situation but is it in its best business interest to do that?"
He is also not convinced a parliamentary inquiry would deliver lower prices.
"I am a little bit sceptical of Government inquiries into this because usually big airlines are well prepared for investigations such as this," he said.
"When you're dealing with multi-billion-dollar companies, they're so strategic in their long-term plans that they would have to consider investigations in this regard."
United States President Donald Trump has called for a determined response to North Korea after talks with South Korean President Moon Jae-in at the White House.

However, while Mr Trump emphasised the importance of the US-South Korea alliance, he also took aim at Seoul over trade and sharing the cost of defence.
Mr Trump reiterated that an era of "strategic patience" over North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs had ended.
"Together we are facing the threat of the reckless and brutal regime in North Korea," Mr Trump said while standing alongside Moon in the White House Rose Garden.
"The nuclear and ballistic missile programs of that regime requires a determined response.
"We're working closely with South Korea and Japan, as well as partners around the world, on a range of diplomatic, security and economic measures to protect our allies and our own citizens from this menace known as North Korea."
He called on regional powers to implement sanctions and demand North Korea "choose a better path and do it quickly".
Mr Moon said he and Mr Trump had placed top priority on the North Korean issue and urged Pyongyang to return promptly to talks.
"President Trump and I agreed that only strong security can bring about genuine peace," he said.
"The threat and provocation of the North will be met with a stern response."

Mr Moon added that in an effort to resolve the North Korean nuclear issue, the two leaders would employ both sanctions and dialogue "in a phased and comprehensive approach".
Both countries' presidents have said they are open to renewed dialogue with North Korea, but only under circumstances that will lead to North Korea giving up its weapons programs.
Mr Trump wants China, North Korea's neighbour and main trading partner to do more to rein in its ally through sanctions.
He sought to woo China after a summit meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in April, but has grown frustrated that their relationship has not resulted in stronger action.
While South Korea is a long-standing American ally, Mr Trump spoke harshly about US trade imbalances and threatened to tear up the bilateral trade pact.

He said the United States was renegotiating what he characteriSed as a "rough" trade deal with South Korea agreed five years ago by his predecessor, Barack Obama.
"We will do more to remove barriers to reciprocal trade and market access," Mr Trump said, adding that the two leaders had talked about the thorny trade areas of steel and autos.
"I am encouraged by President Moon's assurances that he will work to create a level playing field so that American workers and businesses, and especially automakers, can have a fair shake at dealing with South Korea," he said.
The US goods trade deficit with South Korea has more than doubled since the KORUS pact took effect in 2012.
Mr Trump also stressed the need to ensure equitable sharing of costs for defence, returning to a theme he had raised during his campaign that he has also brought up with other allies, including NATO countries and Japan.
Reuters
There is no shying away from it — most punters are not happy with the new laws.
As of last night, people looking for a drink inside key Queensland venues after 10:00pm must have their identification scanned on entry.
Plenty has been said about how the changes will make Queensland safer, so ABC News took to the streets to find out how it all went down during their first test.
Many clubs reluctantly used the scanners for the first time on Friday night, and received a backlash from patrons.
The technology allows venues to share information about problematic patrons and prevent them from re-entering another club or bar — a decision made by the Queensland Government to combat alcohol-fuelled violence.
Agitated patrons waited in snaking queues to get into Brisbane's Fortitude Valley hotspots and those who had stepped out for a cigarette were made to scan their IDs again, making lines yet longer.
Single security guards at smaller venues were visibly overwhelmed with the extra work, with one bouncer describing himself as a "glorified babysitter" because he was not allowed to leave his post.
Affected entertainment precincts in the state include 10 Queensland CBDs, inner-west Brisbane, Surfers Paradise, Airlie Beach, Sunshine Coast and yes, most of Fortitude Valley in Brisbane, so for the capital city think every club and bar between Capulet and Sixes and Sevens.

The word on the street is yes.
Tomcat venue manager Callum Moore said they've been trialling the scanners ahead of tonight's rollout, and the dry runs had revealed problems.
"One of the immediate issues I see are at the larger venues like The MET and Prohibition … their queues are going to extend down beyond the end of the street, I can guarantee it," he said.
Sarosh Mehta, chairman at the Caxton Street Development Association, said venues near inner-west Brisbane's Suncorp Stadium would face unique crowd concerns.
"You can imagine the massive number of people who turn up on our doorsteps after the gates at Suncorp open up at 10:30pm [after an event]," Mr Mehta said.
"It's great for business, but if you've got to line them up and scan them all … well, you can try to imagine what a challenge that would be."

Yes and no.
Patrons outside popular Valley club Prohibition said the laws were necessary.
"Everyone knows just don't be a dickhead and you won't get banned … I think it's a good thing," said patron Tiara.
Hamish Gibson said while some people agreed the new regulations would prevent violence within clubs, many feared banned and agitated patrons would just create a nuisance on the streets.
"It's a win-lose situation," he said.

Others said the scanners made them uncomfortable because of their ability to track which clubs people were visiting.
Andrew Evans lost his driver's licence earlier this year but said he has never had a problem getting into a club because he is 36, until now.
"I agree with the laws, but I think I look old," he said.
"I think one punch can kill, but I'm not going to punch anyone so I just walk around without ID."
Patrick, who turned 18 yesterday, said he was in favour of the ID scans.
"I couldn't be happier with the scanners, I love the idea … it keeps the under-age out," he said.

Every time your ID is scanned at a venue, your name, date of birth and photo are cross-checked against a database of people who've got a banning order against them.
If you match, you'll be barred from entering the venue and the system will distribute those details to regulated premises in Queensland.
And if you're out on bail, the system will also send an email to police stating you tried to enter the venue.

Many bar owners like Matt Emerson from Caxton Street's Brewski have vented their frustration at the State Government's "one-size-fits-all" approach.
"The cost of installing scanners, maintaining them and the guards makes this totally financially unviable," Mr Emerson said.
"We usually don't have a guard on the weekend because we've worked pretty hard to create a safe environment for everyone, and now we're being lumped in with everyone else."
There are three ways an individual can be barred from entering a venue: If an automatic or manual scan indicates you're on a ban list, if you fail to produce photo ID (even if you clearly look over 18), or the scanner is not working.
There are three types of banning orders, including court bans imposed as a condition of bail, police bans, and those enforced by individual venues.
The Ten Network's major investors — Lachlan Murdoch, Bruce Gordon and James Packer — have called in the receivers as expected.
Christopher Hill, Phil Carter and David McEvoy of PPB Advisory have been appointed as receivers of Ten.
PPB Advisory will finance Ten while preparing the television station for sale or recapitalisation through a competitive tender.
"PPB Advisory will also provide immediate funding to Network Ten, backed by the existing shareholder guarantors," PPB Advisory said in a statement.
"This will allow operations to continue while the process to identify a suitable party to purchase or recapitalise the business is conducted."
They say operations will continue as usual while the sales process goes on.

The administrators, KordaMentha, will continue to run the network.
Earlier in the week, administrator Mark Korda told the ABC that Ten was cashflow positive but would need additional funding to keep operating while plans were made to keep the business afloat.
He said small investors were unlikely to get any of their money back.
A number of expressions of interest have been made to buy Ten, including a joint bid from Mr Murdoch and Mr Gordon.
Australian Shareholders' Association director Stephen Mayne said he believed the Ten Network would be saved from going under and he was hopeful small shareholders may get some return.

June is over — that means the end of financial year (EOFY) hangover has begun, and for some in Queensland, it will take a while to get over.
Queenslanders will be hit with numerous costs and fee increases, meaning the household budget is likely to need some tweaking.
Here are some of the key changes:
Power prices are set for a yearly bump, but residents in south-east Queensland will not incur severe bill shock compared to those in South Australia and New South Wales.
Major players AGL and EnergyAustralia forecast an average increase of between $104 and $130 next year for south-east Queensland.  In SA and NSW, the average forecasted rise is about triple that amount.
Prices in south-east Queensland have been deregulated since 2016, so outcomes will depend on electricity providers.
In regional areas, electricity bills will increase 3.3 per cent for households and 4.1 per cent for small businesses.
Queensland Council of Social Service (QCOSS) spokeswoman Carly Hyde said low-income earners would suffer.
"The number of people on hardship programs with their electricity provider has increased," she said.
"We've seen much more people building up debt with their electricity provider and finding it hard to keep debt under control."
However, families with health care cards and asylum seekers can apply for government electricity concessions of $340.
Registration costs have risen by 3.5 per cent, nearly double the yearly rise in the Consumer Price Index to March. Excluding compulsory third-party insurance (CTP), registration for four-cylinder cars has jumped from $352.30 to $364.65.
There will also be small increases to driver licence fees and car tolls, with the exception of AirportlinkM7.
RACQ spokesman Paul Turner said motorists were "easy targets" for government fee hikes.
"Queensland's already expensive when it comes to registration — depending on your car, we're already the first or most expensive in most categories across the country," Mr Turner said.
The Federal Government's decision to slug the major banks a 0.6 per cent levy will result in costs being passed onto customers, the banking industry has warned.
Economic advocate Nick Behrens said many of the July 1 costs would be impossible to avoid, but the home loan increase might be something that could be negated.
"If you do have a mortgage increase, consider going to the tier-two banks across Australia where that levy does not apply to," Mr Behrens said.
However, there is good news for those entering the housing market.
The Queensland Government has promised keep the First Home Owners' Grant at $20,000 until the end of the year, for properties valued under $750,000.
Some hospitality, fast food, pharmacy and retail workers will notice the first cuts to their penalty rates once their next pay slip comes in.
Nearly 500,000 Australians will be affected and the changes are varying and complex, but the penalty rates calculator will help you work out how you would be impacted.
And for some workers, the change will come at a difficult time, with the annual wage growth sitting at 1.9 per cent.
The Turnbull Government and business groups say the proposed changes will mean more workplaces will be able to open on weekends due to the reduced wage bill.
But the unions aren't buying it.
"It'll make the inequality that we're currently seeing in our society even greater," Queensland Council of Unions secretary Ros McLennan said.
The minimum wage will increase $22.20 to $694.90 per week.
Despite increased attention on the issue in recent years domestic violence is still a major problem in Australia, but new research has found the media could play a key role in deterring it.
A study from the University of Melbourne, commissioned by Our Watch, a national organisation working to prevent violence against women, has found clear links between media reporting and how the community views the issue.
Co-author Annie Blatchford from the Centre for Independent Journalism said the report shows the media are key to shaping the community's attitude towards domestic violence.
"The way the media frame their news stories, who they talk to, what information they include or don't include, has been shown to have a pretty potent influence on how the issue is interpreted by the public," she said.
Our Watch CEO Mary Barry said the way journalists frame individual stories can have a major impact on public understanding.
"Blaming victims for the violence inflicted upon them, for instance, still happens in one in six articles about violence against women," she said.
"Not only are people never to blame for experiencing violence, in society, these views impact how many people report violent incidents and conviction rates."
One of the primary findings of the report was the need for additional training for working journalists and students — but Ms Blatchford said it is not just limited to journalists.
"There definitely is a need for training for both journalism students, for journalists in the profession, but also for survivors of violence and members from the violence against women sector on how to talk to the media about this issue," she said.
Ms Barry said there also needs to be an effort to increase the number of female reporters.
"The dominance of men in positions of power in media newsrooms in Australia cannot be ignored, nor can the reported high levels of sexual harassment," Ms Barry said.
"The media industry, and the organisations and workplaces that make up the industry, need to step-up and be leaders in the prevention of sexism, discrimination and violence against women."
Ms Blatchford said things are getting better and that for the most part, the Australian media has improved in its coverage.
"There's less sensationalism, and reports often refer to the broader issue of violence against women, rather than just focussing on the isolated incident itself, which can give the impression that it's a one-off," she said.
She said recent events like the Victorian Royal Commission into Family Violence, as well as public figures like Rosie Batty telling their stories, have helped raise awareness of how to report on stories involving domestic violence.
There was definitely a big buzz around the royal commission…but it's almost as if the issue's been fixed and we can move on. That's definitely not the case," she said.
"We just need to encourage the media to keep talking about it as a social issue that we need to change."
Lending for property investment continues to cool as APRA's regulatory strong arm tactics on risky lending appear to be taking hold.
Private sector credit figures released by the Reserve Bank show investor lending — while still growing — eased in pace for the fifth consecutive month.
Total housing credit was a touch stronger in May growing 0.6 per cent over the month and 6.6 per cent over the year.
Owner occupier credit just outpaced investor lending in May, up 0.6 per cent — its largest monthly gain in 18 months.
However, on an annualised basis investor lending is still growing at 7.5 per cent, compared to owner-occupier lending's 6.1 per cent growth.
J.P Morgan's Henry St John says at that pace, a further slow down in investor mortgages is still necessary to adhere to APRA's new tougher stance on lending.
"[There is] little room to run higher if banks are to keep investor credit growth 'comfortably below' the 10 per cent speed limit speed limit," he said.
"Given that investor lending is annualising at a 7.9 per cent and 8.3 per cent pace over the last 3 and 6 months respectively, bank lending growth needs to continue to moderate to satisfy APRA's new restrictions."
However, ANZ's Daniel Gradwell argued APRA was on target to deliver its desired result.
"Recent out of cycle mortgage rate increases, especially for interest-only borrowing, is likely to see this slowdown in investor borrowing continue," Mr Gradwell said.

The RBA noted the growing rate differential between investors and owner-occupiers has caused a major shift in the way borrowers are characterising their loans.
"The net value of switching of loan purpose from investor to owner-occupier is estimated to have been $53 billion over the period of July 2015 to May 2017, of which $1.4 billion occurred in May 2017," the RBA reported.
Recently, Macquarie Bank analysts asked why anyone would want interest-only mortgage given they were now around 50 basis points higher than principal and interest mortgages — a difference that adds up to around $12,000 on a $500,000 loan over 10 years.
While housing credit props up overall credit growth, business lending continues to disappoint.
"Business credit continued to expand at a snail's pace in 2017, growing 0.2 per cent month-on-month in May, with the annual growth rate in business credit remaining at 3 per cent, a three-year low," Mr St John said.
"The slowdown in business credit is disappointing given the strength in business survey data since the start of this year.
Households also show little interest in borrowing, apart from buying property, with personal credit falling for the 18th consecutive month.
It has been a tale of two halves for Australia's share market in the 2017 financial year.

Not least of all caused by political developments around the globe with the Brexit vote and Donald Trump's rise to the US presidency.
An ugly last day of FY 2017 chiselled the benchmark ASX200 index's gain down to just under 10 per cent over the past 12 months.
A couple of trends stand out.
It has been the least volatile year on the markets in 16 years and while the ASX has made strong gains, it has lagged global equity markets by some way.
That has been even more noticeable in the past six months, where the global MSCI index has delivered a total shareholder return of almost 10 per cent, compared to around 3 per cent from the ASX200.
Miners led the upward trend for the year with a strong start, but flattened out in the second half. The sector was up about 30 per cent for the year, including dividends.
"The big theme of the first half of the year is what investors call reflation, where we had improving global growth and rising bond yields," said David Cassidy, equity strategist at UBS.
"While in the latter part of the year [there was] a surprising degree of investor optimism around the surprise Trump victory and what that might mean for US and global growth."
Banking has also done well, up about 22 per cent in total returns overall, but has gone backwards in the past six months.
"It's all been in the first half of the year, once again it's a story of a very flat second half," Mr Cassidy said.
Healthcare has also been a strong sector, delivering a 15 per cent return over the past 12 months. However, the past six months have been even better delivering a 25 per cent total shareholder return in the year-to-date.

"In the second half of the year perhaps reality has hit to some extent, with the policy impotence from Trump," Mr Cassidy said.
"There's also been some concerns about slowing growth in China. That's come through in weaker commodity prices.
"The banks have had their own headwinds in terms of the surprise federal bank levy in the May budget which hit the sector pretty hard."
Telcos had a tough year, the sector falling almost 20 per cent.
"Telstra tends to dominate that index," Mr Cassidy said. "But also the second-line telcos, TPG and Vocus have been quite weak."
The impending arrival of the monolithic online retailer Amazon has cast a pall over the discretionary shopping sector.
Mr Cassidy pointed to Westfield Holdings as exhibit A of the sort of disruption the digitally-focused Amazon has brought to the market.
"[Westfield] has been quite weak as investors focus in on a potential impact of Amazon on the mall and shopping centre sector. Globally it's been quite a weak performer," he said.
It has also been a mixed time for the Australian dollar, but it has ended the year with something of a flourish.
"It's moving up toward its financial year highs now, pushing 77 US cents, but net on net, it's up slightly for the financial year, but it's well off its December lows of sub 72 US cents," Mr Cassidy noted.
Despite ending on a weak note, it's been a well above average year overall for the market.
However, Mr Cassidy is not tipping another year of total shareholder returns around 18 per cent.
"I think it's going to be hard to repeat that sort of performance. I'd be looking for a more moderate year, probably with single digit total returns. It's going to be a tougher slog in FY18," he said.
Globally, Australia could well lose more ground next year.
"I still think the global share market will do reasonably," Mr Cassidy said.
"We've still got a pretty strong corporate earnings revival happening globally. Australia is not looking quite as strong, but I still think net on net we're more likely to be up than down next year."
And the losers? Broadly speaking, the very competitive telco sector with Telstra and TPG down around 15 per cent and Vocus not much better.
The modern-day blockbuster has an image problem: the perception that Hollywood films are bloated, packed with special effects and lack the nuanced skill of good storytelling.
The exciting films that do make it through the studio system tend to arrive from far-flung corners — culturally, geographically or both (George Miller's Namibia-shot, Australian-inflected Mad Max: Fury Road comes to mind).
Alternatively, they follow a B-movie tradition that allows for creative latitude, if not out-and-out irreverence (just think of the last King Kong film, Skull Island).
It's easy to forget that in the 70s and 80s, effects-laden action films made by people like Steven Spielberg and James Cameron engaged a wide audience with well-crafted plots and characters, as much as with boundary-pushing spectacle.
This week you have the chance to experience that kind of blockbuster magic again, only without having to queue around the block for a ticket.
Okja, the sixth film from Korean master Bong Joon-ho (known to collaborators and fans alike as Director Bong) will be delivered to your home screen of choice via Netflix.

It's a rollicking action movie framed inside an intelligent corporate satire: the story of the unbreakable bond between 10-year-old Mija (Ahn Seo-hyun) and her genetically engineered pet pig, Okja. But the film also explores themes of greed and hubris, as well as the potentially self-destructive impulses of doctrinaire ideology.
It begins in a lush mountainous corner of rural South Korea, where Mija lives with her grandfather and beloved super pig. The complexities of the wider world soon come crashing in, initially in the guise of a cynical wildlife TV celebrity (Jake Gyllenhaal).
It's not long before his employer, an avaricious meat corporation headed by Tilda Swinton, has taken Okja away, and Mija finds herself on a rescue mission, assisted by a small group of radical animal rights activists led by Paul Dano.

This last group are emblematic of how the film plays, especially to an adult audience. Okja is a film that never quite settles for any one set of preconceptions — just when you think you've figured it out, it surprises you with a moment of comedy or a flash of graphic violence.
Its closest cinematic relative might be George Miller's Babe, or the second half of Happy Feet — a blend of dark humor and unflinching critique.
Meanwhile, Director Bong's way around an action sequence reminds he's a major talent.

A scene where Okja is momentarily let loose in the Big Apple is phenomenal filmmaking. As shoppers stumble out of the animal's way and security guards scramble into action, Director Bong deftly inserts the exquisite detail of a young woman running from the chaos while trying to capture the action on her smartphone.
Okja hits the perfect balance of pathos and satire that Netflix's recent film War Machine, made by the Australian director David Michod, didn't.

The fact it's streaming on Netflix, having only shown on the big screen at Cannes and second-tier film festivals like Sydney, is a sign of the times.
Some at Cannes booed the appearance of the Netflix logo, but those people have short memories.
The stories of Director Bong fighting with film mogul Harvey Weinstein over the final cut of his previous film, Snowpiercer, are legendary.
If he's found a safe harbour with the streaming video provider and not a traditional studio, good luck to him. Okja is wondrous.
The ASX has shed around $28 billion in value as local investors join global markets in a retreat from risky assets.
On Friday's close the ASX200 had fallen 1.7 per cent to 5,721 points, giving up all the gains - and more - made in the previous two days of solid buying.
The selling was across all sectors with the big banks all down between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent.
The miners also lost ground despite the iron ore price continuing to rally.
Interest rate sensitive real estate trusts and utilities were the hardest hit down 3 per cent and 2 per cent respectively.

Only 11 stocks in the ASX200 made gains for the day, while the most of the big-name blue chips fell from favour.
The sell-off followed a trend set on Wall Street and in Europe overnight.
While the equities market tanked, the Australian dollar has surged on the back of a rebound in commodity prices and strong manufacturing data from China.

In morning trade, the dollar was up against all major currencies, rising 0.3 per cent to above 77 US cents.
The spot price for iron ore delivered to China has risen 14 per cent so far this week to a two-month high $64.71 per tonne.
In China, new data from the National Bureau of Statistics has shown factory activity has expanded at a faster than expected rate.
The official Purchasing Managers' Index rise was driven by improving demand both in domestic and export markets, as well as higher prices received by manufacturers.
However Capital Economics' Julian Evans-Pritchard said he wouldn't put too much faith in the official figures.
"Looking ahead, even if today's upbeat data is borne out by more reliable measures, we suspect that any improvement in China's economy will prove temporary," he said.
"With tight monetary conditions weighing on credit growth, it will be difficult to avoid a renewed slowdown in growth later this year."
A private college in Sydney breached consumer law when it signed up thousands of students to loans without them knowing, the Federal Court has ruled.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) took action against the Unique International College in Granville.
It alleged the training college, owned by Amarjit Singh, misled up to 3,600 people when it enrolled them in courses, giving them free laptops and telling them the class was free when in fact they were incurring VET FEE-HELP loans of up to $25,000.
The debt would be payable if they earned more than $54,126 per annum.
ACCC chairman Rod Sims said the marketing deliberately targeted people from disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, including regional Aboriginal communities.
"Many people were not even aware that they were being enrolled by Unique and unwittingly signed up to significant debts," he said.
"Unique misled misled people by stating that the course was free, when in fact they would incur a debt of up to $25,000 per course under the VET FEE-HELP scheme."
Amarjit Singh arrived at the Federal Court in Sydney this morning for the judgement.

Judge Nye Perram found the college made false representations and engaged in a pattern of behaviour that amounted to unconscionable conduct in breach of Australian Consumer Law.
Mr Sims said it was a significant victory and the college could face multi-million-dollar fines.
"Our focus is now on ensuring that the affected customers will not remain in debt because of Unique's exploitative behaviour," he said.
The matter is listed for a hearing on penalties on a date yet to be determined.
Dentists working for corporate clinics and health insurers are being incentivised to churn through patients and administer so-called "drill and fill" dentistry, according to industry insiders.
And some dentists say the situation is leading to unnecessary dental work, or over-servicing.
Kyle Mervin, a dentist from the NSW Central Coast, told Background Briefing that five years ago, he did casual work for ASX-listed company Pacific Smiles, which owns 70 dental clinics in Australia's eastern states.
"Permanent dentists had an ascending pay scale — the more you earnt the more you received in return," Dr Mervin said.
"When you've got an ascending scale, it's like getting a little bonus whenever you hit certain targets.
"If you're trying to improve your numbers then you see more patients … you bill more per patient, or you do unnecessary treatment.
"I'm not saying everyone does that — but that is certainly a way, within that structure, to get yourself to the next pay level."
Pacific Smiles chose not to be interviewed.
However, in a written statement the company said it did not pay commissions or bonuses — but did charge a monthly service fee, which was reduced as a percentage of net dental fees, the more productive the dentist was.

Rachel David, the chief executive of health fund representative body Private Healthcare Australia, said she was not aware of any health insurers paying dentists commissions or bonuses.
"I'm not aware of any circumstances where that's occurred. I'm not saying it hasn't but … as a policy and advocacy representative, I have not been made aware of that," Dr David said.
"So long as the objective quality safety and cost of the service are not being impacted we would not get involved in a discussion about the commercial arrangements of health funds."

When the ABC contacted the six biggest companies in the industry to find out how they pay their dentists, few would give any details and none admitted to setting key performance indicators (KPIs) or quotas.
The largest player, health insurer Bupa, which has more than 200 dental clinics in Australia, said dentists in its clinics were remunerated based on the revenue they generate, consistent with dental industry practices.
Similarly, National Dental Care, which runs 59 clinics, confirmed it paid its dentists by commission, mostly 40 per cent. Neither Bupa nor National Dental paid bonusses, however.
Primary Healthcare, Maven Dental Group and 1300 SMILES refused to answer questions.
There are also concerns within the industry about the practice of corporate-owned clinics setting demanding performance benchmarks, such as KPIs or quotas, for the younger dentists they tend to employ, who are often on starting salaries of $30 an hour or $65,000 to $70,000 a year.

On one online dentists' forum, Moss Vale dentist Patrick Meaney described a conversation with a dentist working at a Bupa-owned clinic:
"Had a call from a young Sydney uni graduate. Got a job with a corporate, suburban Sydney practice, nothing flash but been there forever, owner sold out and is almost but not quite retired.
"They are expected to see four patients an hour. They're tired (after 20+ patients a day, I would be too). There's no money in it (they're on commission). None of the patients wants to pay a gap and cannot see why they should."
The troubled graduate told his senior colleague the big worry was there was not enough time to deal with many cases of undiagnosed periodontal or gum disease, which raised medicolegal and ethical issues, especially when "whizzing through complex presentations as though they're fluoride kids with great brushing habits. (They're not)."
Bruce Noble, who is a clinical tutor at the University of Adelaide dental school, said he was concerned about working conditions for young dentists going into corporate clinics.
"I've seen a document where a former student showed me where they have KPIs and an expectation of how long they will spend on tasks," Dr Noble said.
"So they're starting to regiment them as if there's a factory line and so that's where the insurer, they're dabbling in health."
In April, the Australian Dental Association accused some private health insurers of engaging in anti-competitive conduct.

Meantime, a Senate inquiry was appointed to look at the value and affordability of private health insurance, including product design, regulation of insurers and the use and sharing of health data.
Greens leader Richard di Natale, who backed the inquiry, said it was "completely inappropriate" for healthcare practitioners to be given financial targets.
"All of the work that is done by health professionals should be done in the best interests of the patient," he said.
"We need to make sure that healthcare decisions are not being made because doctors are going to get some sort of bonus, that dentists are going to get some sort of bonus … they need to be made because it is the best treatment for that person at that time."
Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt was unavailable for comment.