
Affaf Jaqarna's husband Mamdouh never came home from work last Tuesday.

"Until this moment we have not heard anything about him," Ms Jaqarana told the ABC.
"He was arrested from his studio where he was working in the town of Housan. All we know is that his detention was extended for another five days and that he has started a hunger strike," she said.
Thirty-three-year-old father Mamdouh Hamamreh, who works with the Hamas-affiliated Al Quds Television, is one of five journalists arrested by Palestinian security forces in the past seven days.
They are being held under a new and vaguely worded decree handed down by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas targeting freedom of expression on social media and news websites.
Separately, four other journalists were called for questioning about social media posts critical of government policy.
The Government has insisted the new law on "electronic crimes" closes legal loopholes that in the past allowed offenders, such as hackers, to go unpunished.
But critics have said the edict essentially allows the Palestinian Authority government to jail anyone on charges of harming "national unity" or the "social fabric".
"My husband and a group of journalists were detained based on a political dispute," Affaf Jaqarna said.
"They haven't committed any crimes. My husband is a journalist and a journalist should be free to write without restrictions and express himself freely."
Ms Jaqarna has accused President Abbas of abusing his rule.

"I don't feel safe here under this current authority," she said.
"These security forces should be there to protect us not to arrest us."
Shahwan Jabareen, director of the Palestinian Human Rights group al-Haq, said the law was so vague it was easy for it to be misused by the Palestinian Authority.
"Anyone can use it politically," Mr Jabareen told the ABC.
"They are trying now to copy bad laws in Arab countries around us. And trying to make a copy here in Palestine."
Mr Jabareen said President Abbas and the Palestinian Authority had been slowly stifling freedoms in the West Bank, including arbitrary arrests of political opponents, mistreatment in detention and cracking down on peaceful protests.
"Every day there is a new thing and the main common thing between all these new laws is more authority in their hands," Mr Jabareen said.
"And now we fear that the security is controlling everything and intervening in everything."
President Abbas is 82 years old and in increasingly bad health.
He is now 12 years into what was supposed to be a four-year term, and recent polls show that two thirds of Palestinians want him to resign.

"This latest crackdown is an escalation of a pattern Abbas started a couple of years ago," Grant Rumley — a research fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington, and co-author of a new biography of Mr Abbas — said.
Mr Rumley said consecutive US administrations had been largely silent about the leader's growing authoritarian rule.
"It's really something where the Obama administration did not condemn it or condemns him when he did it and the Trump administration does not condemn him when he does it," Mr Rumley said.
The author said this silence gaves Mr Abbas a tacit "green light" to consolidate his grip on power.
"If there is not going to be any serious pushback from outside actors, namely the US, then he has the go ahead to go out there and constrict those who try to criticise him," he said.
"I think this solidifies the gap between Palestinians and their leadership and hardens their view that Abbas doesn't really have their best interests at heart.
"I think this limits their appetite for dissent and ultimately it creates a sort of police state."
ABC/Wires
Virgin Australia airlines has apologised to a Western Australian grandmother after the airline's crew pulled apart and broke her wheelchair for a flight to remote WA.
Sixty-year-old Carolyn Wass, who depends on her electric wheelchair for mobility, boarded a flight to Karratha last week on a trip to visit her family.
But when the plane landed, Ms Wass discovered her wheelchair was broken, and despite the efforts of crew at Karratha airport could not be fixed.

"It was in two pieces, they'd taken it fully to bits ... and the poor chap that brought it in was trying to put it together. He had no idea of how it should go back together," Ms Wass said.
"I was devastated, because it means I have no way of getting around ... it's everything to me," she said.
Airline staff told her they had pulled the wheelchair apart for inspection due to heightened security procedures in the wake of a foiled bomb plot in Sydney.
But Ms Wass, who said she flies on Australian airlines regularly, said she had never had her wheelchair pulled apart during a flight before.
The grandmother from Gingin in WA's Wheatbelt says she was left without a functioning wheelchair for a week after the incident.
Ms Wass says Virgin Australia offered to replace her electric wheelchair with a manual one, a solution she saw as unsatisfactory.
"I can't use my arms to push a manual one ... it would mean my daughter would have to push me and she has two children," Ms Wass said.

After the ABC contacted Virgin, the company got in touch with Ms Wass and is assisting her with her insurance claim to replace the wheelchair.
In a statement to the ABC the company extended a public apology to Ms Wass.
"This is far from the standards we set ourselves and we have conducted an internal investigation into the matter," a Virgin spokeswoman said.
"As a result, we are implementing new processes to ensure this does not happen again."
Ms Wass hopes in telling her story she might prevent other wheelchair users from suffering a similar experience on airlines.
"If this happens to someone else ... it's horrible, it's an awful feeling," she said.
A 150-megawatt solar thermal power plant has been secured for Port Augusta in South Australia, State Premier Jay Weatherill has announced.
Construction of the $650 million plant will start in 2018.

Mr Weatherill said the Aurora Solar Energy Project would be ready to go in 2020 and would supply 100 per cent of the State Government's needs.
The Government will pay a maximum of $78 per megawatt hour.
Mr Weatherill said the solar thermal plant was "the biggest of its kind in the world".
"Importantly, this project will deliver more than 700 jobs, with requirements for local workers," he said.

In September 2016, the Government launched a tender process to procure 75 per cent of its long-term power supply.
It said it wanted to attract a new competitor onto the market and put downward pressure on electricity prices.
The Government contract with United States operator Solar Reserve will last for 20 years, and was the "lowest cost option" of shortlisted bids for the project.
The maximum Government load is 125MW, meaning the plant will be able to supply other customers.
"This, in addition to our state-owned gas plant, and the world's largest lithium ion battery, will help to make our energy grid more secure," Mr Weatherill said.

Solar Reserve chief executive officer Kevin Smith toured the region in September last year, and said at the time it would need at least $100 million in federal grants or loans to proceed.

Earlier this year, the Federal Government confirmed it would grant $110 million in a concessional equity loan to support a solar thermal project at Port Augusta.
The loan — first flagged in the lead-up to the federal election — was guaranteed in a deal struck between the Government and independent senator Nick Xenophon to get his support for company tax cuts legislation.
Senator Xenophon said the project would transform the energy market in SA and be a "flagship project for the entire nation".
"This will make a difference in the South Australia energy market. It will secure the grid and mean more baseload power than intermittent power," he said.
He said it would lead to more stable energy in the market, which would lead to lower power prices.
Port Augusta City Council Mayor Sam Johnson said the announcement left him with "a little tear in the eye".
"It's just an outstanding result and the amount of people that should be thanked, I mean, I could be here for hours thanking them all," he said.
Solar thermal uses heliostats, or mirrors, to concentrate sunlight onto a tower that heats molten salt.

The heat created is then used to generate steam.
Solar Reserve said the plant will be able to provide between eight and 10 hours of storage and had no requirement for gas or oil generated electricity as a backup.
It is expected to employ 50 full-time workers on an ongoing basis once it is operational.
The company said the power station will operate in a similar fashion to a coal or gas station, meaning many of the jobs would "require the same skill sets".
Mr Smith said he looked forward to supporting "federal and state renewable energy targets".

The ASX has retraced much of Friday's losses, but it has not been driven by enthusiastic buying of companies reporting results today.
JB Hi-Fi, Newcrest, Aurizon and Ansell have disappointed, although Bendigo and Adelaide Bank did manage to impress investors.
At 1:00pm (AEST) the ASX200 was up 0.7 per cent to 5,735 points.
Electronics and home goods retailer JB Hi-Fi posted a record full-year profit, up 13 per cent to $172 million, driven by the acquisition of The Good Guys chain and the demise of rival Dick Smith.
The $870 million take over of The Good Guys, which was completed last November, boosted sales by 42 per cent to $5.6 billion.
Underlying earnings - stripping out one off items such as the takeover costs - were up 36 per cent to $208 million, which was roughly in line with expectations.
The stronger cash flow also helped push up the full-year dividend to $1.18 a share.
The big Queensland-based rail operator Aurizon has delivered a $188 million loss, down from last year's $72 million profit.
The big loss was not unexpected, given a previously announced $554 million impairment charge against its bulk haulage business and an earlier $236 million charge before the interim profits in February.
Underlying earnings also dropped around 4 per cent, due to a downturn in its haulage business and interruptions caused by Cyclone Debbie earlier this year.
Aurizon also announced it would be selling its intermodal freight business, netting $220 million but at the cost of 250 jobs at terminals outside Queensland.
The intermodal operation will be split up between family-owned trucking business Linfox and rival rail business Pacific National.
However, the sale still needs to clear regulatory hurdles with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Foreign Investment Review Board, given Pacific National is now owned by overseas pension funds.
Aurizon's revenues remained flat at $3.5 billion.
While investors were disappointed with the smaller than expected increase in dividend, the company announced a $300 million on-market buyback of its shares.
Australia's biggest goldminer Newcrest's profit has slipped 7 per cent to $308 million, an effort not helped by production interruptions including an earthquake at its Cadia Valley mine.
Underlying profit was up impressive 22 per cent to $394 million after an ongoing cost-cutting campaign, but this was still below analysts' optimistic expectations.
The company also continued to tidy up its balance sheet, cutting debt by almost 30 per cent to $1.5 billion.
It also announced a new dividend policy based on paying shareholders between 10 and 30 per cent of the company's financial year free-cash-flow.
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank produced the day's highlight with a $430 million profit. At midday the bank was the best performing stock on the ASX200.
Cash earnings came in at $418 million.
While represents just a 4 per cent increase on last year — and slightly below expectations — investors were impressed it largely held on to its margins.
Repricing investor mortgages helped expand the bank's margins in the second half.
The full-year dividend remained flat at 68 cents per share.
The New South Wales Government has announced it will use some money from the private sector to help replace the entire regional train fleet, leading to fears about fare rises.
Deputy Premier John Barilaro said an expression of interest would soon be issued for the design, construction and maintenance of the new trains.
In October last year, the Government committed $50 million to replace the 60 ageing XPT passenger cars that operate between Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Dubbo and other regional centres.
He said the Government would award a contract to a private company in early 2019 to help fund the fleet and ongoing maintenance.
"What we're looking at is to see how the market will respond to that," Mr Barilaro said.
"That's why the expression of interest process that we're announcing today is to first flag to the market and to see what the market is going to put up as ideas, innovative approaches to delivering the project," he said.
The bulk of the trains will be built overseas.
Mr Barilaro said a private company would assemble and maintain the trains, with a new rail service facility earmarked for Dubbo.
"We don't build trains in New South Wales, and often we will get criticised, but the reality is it's about delivery on time, efficiencies and costs," he said.
"The expressions of interest process will flag to the market what we will expect, and that is to have the final assembly and components 100 per cent in New South Wales — the maintenance component will be in Dubbo.
"I think that's a balanced approach in getting value for money for the taxpayer, getting the product that we need quicker, and understanding that that's not one of our strengths in the Australian economy.
"There are great companies that have got great partnerships and a significant investment will see, I think, joint ventures."
Orange councillor Neil Jones, who is also a member of the recently-formed Regional Rail Action NSW, said he was concerned train fares would rise under the new funding model.
"I think it will review the fare structures and could lead to significant increases to costs, we've seen it in every other public utility," Cr Jones said.
"Will they be maintained to the same standard or will it lead to improved maintenance and then actual ownership of the train? Will they be profit-driven.
"We know that regional trains run at a huge loss and I think the Government is charged with changing their loss factor and maybe private ownership will bring about a reduction."
Cr Jones is among a number of people lobbying to have the new rail maintenance facility in Orange and said he was disappointed there had been no consultation about where it should be based.
"On the one hand [Dubbo] does make a little bit of sense, in that that's where the XPT journey will start or end, so that leads to some efficiencies in relation to maintenance," he said.
"It's just disappointing that these decisions are being made without consultation with local communities, usually you're invited to make a pitch for something like this, but we've never been given that opportunity.
"I would suspect that this was politically motivated without a full evaluation of the [proposed] Orange facility."
Peter Bailey from the Foundation for Regional Development said the fleet replacement would ensure regional people would have the most efficient links to bigger centres.
But he said the ageing regional rail network also needed to be upgraded.
"It's all very fine to have the latest trains, but if they're running at 40 kilometres an hour because of the problems with the track well we've also got to address that issue," he said.
There were nearly 200 near misses on the Queensland Rail network in the last year, QR has reported, adding that while the figure is trending down people are still taking too many risks around trains.
Footage of some the closer shaves on the south-east rail network has been released, with one incident showing a man almost hit when he trips over his sandal during a dash across the track.
QR chief executive Nick Easy said too many motorists and pedestrians were trying to save time by gambling with their lives in last-minute crossings.
During last financial year there were 187 near misses with cars and pedestrians, down from 248 the year before.
"For the sake of saving a few seconds, people are risking serious injury or could even pay the ultimate price," Mr Easy said.
"These incidents don't just affect the victim.
"They can have long-lasting psychological effects on staff, customers, and emergency services, and we hope these high visibility safety campaigns will start a conversation about rail safety."
To coincide with Rail Safety Week, Queensland Rail has launched its latest safety campaign to prevent injuries and near misses on the rail network.
Mr Easy said the campaign focused on the most common incidents seen on the network.
"From simply holding the hand rail and standing behind the yellow line, to being aware of your surroundings and obeying safety measures at level crossings, the campaign will get people thinking about safe behaviours," Mr Easy said.
"We don't want to see anyone injured on our network."
The Commonwealth Bank has announced that its chief executive Ian Narev will retire by the end of the current financial year.

CBA's chairman Catherine Livingstone said the board had decided to bring forward details of its succession planning to deal with "speculation and questions about his tenure".
Mr Narev has also seen his pay packet slashed by more than 50 per cent, partly as a result of the money laundering scandal.
CBA's board decided to eliminate the short-term bonuses of all senior executives for the 2017 financial year.
That left the Commonwealth Bank boss with a total pay packet of $5.5 million last financial year, versus $12.3 million the year before.
Mr Narev has been heavily criticised for a money laundering scandal that has rocked the bank, which is facing potentially billions of dollars in fines from a court case against it by regulator AUSTRAC.
CBA stands accused of not reporting more than 53,000 transactions that were above AUSTRAC's $10,000 threshold, and allowing tens of millions of dollars in proceeds of crime to be deposited with the bank, much of it then transferred overseas.
The main fault lay in a coding error in software related to CBA's Intelligent Deposit Machines (IDMs) that meant they failed to automatically submit reports when deposits above the threshold were made.

However, AUSTRAC is also alleging that CBA failed to undertake a risk analysis of the machines for three years after their introduction in 2012 and also failed to act on many suspicious transactions of which it was aware, including where it was made aware by the Australian Federal Police.
Ms Livingstone said Mr Narev will leave the bank by the end of the 2018 financial year, "with the exact timing dependent on the outcome of an ongoing comprehensive internal and external search process" for his successor.
She said that succession planning has been an ongoing process for the board, with Mr Narev now in the role for almost six years, but that the CEO and directors agreed it was important to end speculation about his future.
"Nothing has changed — we have full confidence in Ian as CEO," Ms Livingstone told reporters during a media briefing.
"The ongoing CEO succession process is something which you would expect to be happening given that Ian is at this point in his tenure."
Ms Livingstone said discussions about Mr Narev's departure have been happening since before she became CBA chairman at the start of this year and his retirement is not due to the AUSTRAC court case.

"This has been the basis of ongoing conversations between myself and Ian and the board since I became chair, and there were conversations before that, as you would expect given the length of his tenure," she added.
Mr Narev became CBA's chief executive in December 2011, replacing Ralph Norris.
He had been at the bank in senior executive roles since 2007, when he moved across from global consulting giant McKinsey & Company.
Mr Narev would fully understand the seriousness of AUSTRAC's allegations, having a bachelor's degree and two masters degrees in law.
As if the Commonwealth Bank did not have enough bad news to deal with, the corporate watchdog ASIC today announced that CBA would refund more than $10 million to 65,000 customers who were wrongly sold consumer credit insurance.
The insurance in question helps borrowers meet repayments if they are sick, injured or involuntarily unemployed.
However, these 65,000 credit customers were either already unemployed or were students, meaning the insurance was of no potential benefit to them.
The Commonwealth Bank will also refund nearly $600,000 to around 10,000 home loan customers after it over-insured them, resulting in premiums that were higher than they should have been.
ASIC said CommBank and CommInsure identified the issues and self-reported to the regulator.
The Federal Government is entering a crucial stage of negotiations with the Senate crossbench over its proposed reform of media laws, with the legislation due to come before Parliament again this week.
The suite of changes includes slashing licence fees and scrapping the "reach rule" which prevents a single TV broadcaster from reaching more than 75 per cent of the population.
Labor opposes some of the proposed measures in the bill, meaning the Government is relying on the support of the Senate crossbench to have it passed.
When contacted by the ABC, the Nick Xenophon team, the Greens and One Nation all indicated a deal for their support had not been finalised.
Tasmanian Senator Jacqui Lambie also remains undecided.
Regardless, the matter being scheduled for debate again on Tuesday.
Communications Minister Mitch Fifield said the discussions were ongoing.
"Senate colleagues, apart from Labor, are involved in active discussions with the Government on media reform," he said in a statement.
"It is independent and minor party colleagues who are prepared to constructively engage."
It is understood one of the main obstacles is the Government's bid to relax restrictions on an individual or company owning a TV station, radio station and newspaper in the same licence area, known as the "two out of three" rule.
Last week Minister Fifield told RN that under the Government's changes there would still be "important diversity protections".
"We can't pretend that the media landscape is the same as it was when these media laws were designed, they were designed in an era before the internet existed," he said.
The proposed changes have the backing of the industry, with a delegation of media executives travelling to Canberra earlier this year to show their support.
They were the pirates of the open seas — bringing rock and pop music to a new generation.
And the British government was furious.
Back in the 1960s, when pop and rock were taking over the music scene, British teenagers had to turn to pirate radio stations to hear bands like the Beatles and the Rolling Stones.
Barred from broadcasting from land, stations such as Radio Caroline and Radio London had taken to the water, using rusty old ships moored in international waters to broadcast to millions of eager listeners across the UK.
The government wasn't happy and 50 years ago, on August 14 1967, the Marine Offences Act made it illegal to support the ships or broadcast from them.

The story of drama and intrigue and tragedy on the high seas inspired the movie The Boat that Rocked starring Bill Nighy.
The DJs — and their fans who remember that dark time — are marking the anniversary this weekend.
Australian DJ Ian Damon, who presented music for Radio London from onboard the ships, said he remembered the day the rebels gave up in defeat.
"When that transmitter finished with the playing of Paul Kaye saying 'And now Radio London is closing', we all had a tear as you can imagine," he said.
He is one of the original DJs taking part in commemorations in Essex where the last remaining ship, the MV Ross Revenge, sits just a few kilometres offshore.

The team from Radio Caroline still broadcast once a month and the original studio remains intact with a library of tens of thousands of records.
Manager Peter Moore said he always vowed to help Radio Caroline when he was old enough.
"The government were determined to suppress something that was enjoyable and completely harmless, and for me, and I was a young man at the time, that seemed so completely unfair and undemocratic," he said while onboard this week.

"I made myself a stupid promise that if I could ever help Radio Caroline I would, and here I am.
"Silliest thing I decided in my bloody life but here we are," he added with a laugh.
The ship attracts a slightly younger generation — men who grew up on Radio Caroline and have retired and have the time to present music shows.
"The ship was invisible over the horizon," Mr Moore said.

"It was this mysterious place from where music came and now that you can actually come and stand onboard it produces some very strong emotions."
Steve Anthony said he was inspired by Radio Caroline as a teenager but he had to wait until he had finished a career lasting more than 40 years before he had the time to join the station.
Radio Caroline was the first pirate station and rivals soon followed, some operating from ships and others from old military forts in the Thames estuary.
"When the law was passed and the big stations shut down on August 14 1967, to us, I was a 16-year-old, I would say today it was the equivalent of taking away Facebook, Twitter, all the social media," he said.
"It was that important to us. It linked us all. It was the fabric of our lives.
"It sounds dramatic now and it only lasted three years but it was an intense three years," he said
Many of the DJs took risks to work on the ships.
They faced jail time and a lot of them could not swim.

Some of them had never been to sea.
"I used to read the news with a brown paper bag near me," Ray Clark said.
The pirate radio stations quickly attracted millions of listeners desperate to hear the Beatles and the Rolling Stones.
"After a couple of weeks we had more people listening than all of the BBC networks combined and that got up their nose somewhat because they were convinced there was no demand for this kind of music," Mr Moore said.
Mr Damon was nicknamed the Wombat and his call sign was "Hi there, you there".
He recalls singers like Lulu and Dusty Springfield coming out to the boats to promote their music.

"We were pioneers in broadcasting," he said.
Radio Caroline presenter Ray Clark remembers listening to Mr Damon as a nine-year-old on the radio.
"I think it lit a spark," he said.
"It was just so special and so different and worth fighting for."
Radio London shut down when the laws were brought in 1967 but Radio Caroline continued, although eventually ran out of steam.
A group of enthusiasts keep it operating on the Ross Revenge as well as onshore, and it has just been awarded its first AM radio licence.

Victorians are paying, on average, 21 per cent more than the cheapest price on offer for electricity and gas, according to a bipartisan review into the state's electricity and gas retail markets that recommends regulating power prices again, eight years after they were deregulated.
The recommendation is one of 11 measures put forward to drive down prices, protect consumers and "put people first", Energy Minister Lily D'Ambrosio said.
Any move to regulate power prices would require legislation and Ms D'Ambrosio said the Government would take "decisive action" when it officially responded to the report by the end of 2017.

The minister said a "no-frills" option could be made available to consumers as part of a reregulated pricing scheme.
"Consumers will have the choice … to actually have a basic service offer that is regulated by an independent party, a no-frills option that represents a reasonable price for buying electricity or gas in the market," Ms D'Ambrosio said.
"The review that I commissioned late last year has made it absolutely clear that competition and deregulation is not working in the interest of families and businesses."
Research commissioned by the panel found that on average, Victorian consumers pay 21 per cent more than the cheapest available offer.
The report said prices in Victoria were "unusually high" compared to elsewhere in Australia, saying there was "evidence of market failure".
It found that the "retailer charge" — costs, marketing and profit — typically makes up 30 per cent of a household electricity bill, more than producing or distributing electricity.

"Marketing is a major factor in energy price rises in Victoria. That's costing more than the cost to actually generate or supply electricity," Ms D'Ambrosio said.
"It's a very complex market. The retail pricing practices have also made customer choices more complex and that's resulted in consumers often paying higher prices than they ought to."
The Andrews Government launched the bipartisan review into the state's electricity and gas retail markets last November, which was headed by former MPs Terry Mulder and John Thwaites.
It looked at whether the electricity and gas retail markets were working in the best interests of Victorians.

The report said marketing information must be easily comparable, contract prices and variations are to be clear and fair and increased protection for low-income and vulnerable customers.
It recommends "brokerage and collective bargaining" on behalf of low income and vulnerable customers and recommends the Essential Services Commission (ESC) should monitor the market.
One of the authors of the report, former Labor MP John Thwaites said implementing the recommendations could save people around $200 on their power bills.
He said the costs of competition were so great that numerous extra costs were added and consumes had to pay for those costs.
"Competition does generally drive down costs. Now we've had 10 years of that experiment and it hasn't worked as we expected," he said.
"It's an essential service. People can't exit the market.
"So there's no constraint on prices if they go up and up people have to keep paying those higher prices."
A report prepared for the Victorian Council of Social Service (VCOSS) and RMIT showed some people were refusing to turn on their heating, scrimping on food and taking showers at local charities to save money on their power bills.
VCOSS chief executive Emma King said Victorian households are experiencing significant suffering and the Government must act.
"Every day Victorian households are being fleeced," she said.
"We have power barons who are making significant profits on the back of vulnerable Victorians and on the back of everyday Victorian households.
"This can deliver huge differences that will impact on every single Victorian. [It's] time for that to happen."
Gerard Brody, from the Consumer Action Law centre said the state's energy market had been dysfunctional for too long.
He said a proposal to regulate a basic price would offer an "immediate benefit" to customers who had been ripped off for too long.
"Competition needs to work to benefit customers and well-designed regulation can support effective competition," Mr Brody said.
"We will work with Government so that a 'basic service offer' works for all Victorians."
The Brotherhood of St Laurence called the proposals "good news for households on low incomes".
"The review released today makes a series of important recommendations, which, if implemented, would lead to much lower bills for households on low incomes," spokesman Damian Sullivan said.
Daniel Grigg knows retail in the Perth CBD inside out.
He owns two fashion outlets in Plaza Arcade and one in Piccadilly Arcade, along with six stores outside the city centre.
But the 40-year-old is worried about growing competition from suburban shopping centres, which are undergoing a once-in-a-generation construction boom.
"If the city hasn't got a point of difference, well then why would people come into the city, pay up to $12 an hour for parking [compared] to a shopping centre in the suburbs that's got free parking?" Mr Grigg said.
He said a major renovation underway in Plaza Arcade, which has rerouted foot traffic, has had an impact on business.

But he believed there was a wider problem in attracting people to the CBD, particularly on weekends.
"If you want to drive long-term foot traffic in the city, you make it more affordable to park here and to come here," he said.
"Free transportation on the weekends could be one of those things."
Along with free one-hour parking and train fares, Mr Grigg said more creative projects were needed.
"Cheaper, pop-up style places for artists and you know, interesting things that go on that don't necessarily create revenue."
In the CBD's east end, creative shoots are emerging through Historic Heart of Perth Inc, a not-for-profit group that hopes to revitalise the area from Barrack Street to the Perth Mint.

The group has raised $500,000, half provided by the State Government, to be used for street art.
Ten artists have been recruited to paint six laneway walls, with up to 100 planter boxes to be painted and installed in public spaces and alfresco dining areas.
Project manager Sandy Anghie said she hoped the art would catalyse further development of heritage-listed buildings in the east end.
"You see the massive investment in suburban shopping centres and the point of difference we have in the city is the history and the culture," Ms Anghie said.
"You can't replicate the character and charm of the heritage-listed buildings and historic precincts and so we're leveraging off that.
"Lots of people don't cross Barrack Street at the moment to the east end, but you know if we're putting artwork and landscaping in, perhaps we're giving them a reason to cross the street and explore this area that's been forgotten."
Earlier this month, the City of Perth amended its heritage policy to reduce council rates for building owners who repair or upgrade their properties.
Eleven sites have been identified in the malls for refurbishment.
Other CBD business owners say the city's cultural side needs to be nurtured.
Ryan Zaknich is the founder of Two Feet & a Heartbeat, which provides walking tours in Perth and Fremantle.

He said the growing success of the Fringe World Festival showed Perth had a vibrant arts scene, which could be leveraged further.
"I think the creative arts industry is a large opportunity," Mr Zaknich said.
"Private enterprise revolving around that would get people in the city, I believe."

Mr Zaknich, who is also a director of cultural group Museum of Perth, says Indigenous tourism could also be a drawcard for the city.
"Whether that's an Indigenous cultural centre, tours, whatever the medium may be, there is a strong desire for people who are visiting Perth to have those interactions," he said.
But in the short term, he said he believed any strategy needs to focus on shoppers' hip pockets.
"The real way to compete against the metropolitan shopping centres will always come down to the cost of parking," he said.
"You can drive up to the front of a shopping centre and park all day, no questions asked, as opposed to parking where you have to pay."
Global markets did not capitulate further to rising tensions on the Korean peninsula on Friday, but the pause from selling was hardly convincing either.
Wall Street edged up cautiously. It was driven more by another batch of weak inflation data than the belief everything was hunky-dory between Washington and Pyongyang.

For something supposed to be transitory, low inflation in the US is certainly sticking around.
Another below-expectation report of 1.7 per cent CPI growth in the year to July had the punters thinking the Federal Reserve may not raise rates again this year after all.
While that supported the market a bit, it is hardly a solid foundation for onward and upward.
The more immediate concern remains what hopefully stays just a war-of-words.
Since President Trump's "fire and fury" salvo and the DPKR's supreme leader Kim Jong-un put Guam in his nuclear cross-hairs this week, global equity markets have dropped around $US1 trillion, on Reuters' calculations.
Despite this, JP Morgan's head of currency and commodities research John Normand says the most unusual development this week may be the relative market calm amidst apparently high anxiety.
"Maybe market participants realize that North Korea has generated many false alarms over the past decade, so are reflexively reaching for the snooze button," Mr Normand said.
"Or maybe they struggle to equate stronger rhetoric with actual conflict given the protagonists."
While there are differences this time around, some patterns repeat according to Mr Normand.
For one thing living (and trading) in the midst of geopolitical risk has been the norm, rather than exception for decades.
Here are Mr Normand's other key lessons:

While all this has been going on, corporate Australia has been trotting out full-year results to rather mixed reviews.
So far around 15 per cent of the ASX's "Top 200" companies have reported.
"After a somewhat inauspicious start, the last couple of days have delivered some good results," UBS strategist David Cassidy said.
The UBS take so far is:
While the sample size is still limited, small-cap trends have been weaker than large, with an average downgrade of 3 per cent to 2018 earnings.
"Profit conditions do not look as buoyant as suggested by the recent upbeat business survey data, which continues to be something of a conundrum," Mr Cassidy said.
"The Australian listed corporate sector is doing 'ok' but the market still faces the relative headwind of a less dynamic earnings backdrop than currently playing out regionally and globally."
AMP capital Shane Oliver says in keeping with "mixed" vibe, so far 50 per cent of companies have seen their share price outperform the market on the day they reported and 50 per cent have seen underperformance.
"It's worth noting though that there is a tendency for the quality of results to tail off a bit as the reporting season proceeds," Dr Oliver said.
On the positive side of the ledger, around three-quarters of companies reporting so far have increased profits, which is above the long term trend, as is the 82 per cent raising dividends.
It is not the busiest week of reporting season — that comes next week — but in many ways it is the most significant.
For the statistically minded, Wednesday (CSL, Woodside and Origin Energy) and Thursday (Wesfarmers, Telstra and QBE) are biggest days of the season measured in terms of market capitalisation.
On the domestic economic front it is all about the labour market.
The second quarter wage price index (Wednesday) is likely to be a repeat of the first quarter, in other words almost stagnant.
It would also deliver annualised wage growth of 1.9 per cent, the slowest pace since the series started 19 years ago.
Private sector wage growth is an even more dire situation, growing at 1.3 per cent, with the only glimmer of hope being a short-lived pick up next quarter when the recent minimum wages decision kicks in.

Jobs data (Thursday) should continue to be strong.
The market is punting on 10,000 new jobs, but that may be a bit conservative given July is often a big month for jobs growth having averaged 34,000 over the previous three years.
The unemployment rate should remain parked at 5.6 per cent.
The RBA minutes from the August meeting (Tuesday) are out, but we pretty well know the drum already.
The ECB (Thursday) and Federal Reserve (Wednesday) also publish their minutes which are likely to be far more significant for a world looking for a hint of "hawkishness".
China also has its monthly data dump (Monday). It's expected to show a slight cooling in the domestic economy.
Monday
14/8/2017
Tuesday
15/8/2017
Wednesday
16/8/2017
Thursday
17/8/2017
Friday
18/8/2107
Monday
14/8/2017
Tuesday
15/8/2017
Wednesday
16/8/2017
Thursday
17/8/2017
Friday
18/8/2107
Monday
14/8/2017
Tuesday
15/8/2017
Wednesday
16/8/2017
Thursday
17/8/2017
Friday
18/8/2107
Canberra's only remaining Blockbuster video store will officially close its doors this weekend after 17 years in operation.
Its closure leaves just one DVD rental store in operation in Canberra — Charnwood's Network Video.
Blockbuster in Dickson first opened in 2007 following a merge with the video and DVD chain Video Ezy.
The Dickson store's owner Paul Davis said the introduction of free-to-air channels had the most dramatic impact on his business.
"The biggest notable decline was in 2010 when the free-to-air stations released all the new stations. That was the single biggest impact that happened overnight," Mr Davis said.

He also attributed the decline of business to the introduction of streaming services.
"People's habits have changed," he said.
"The new generation of people, they're using social media more, they're not consuming movies in the traditional form that they used to."
To keep business flowing, Mr Davis said they incorporated an ice creamery, which helped for a time.
While it introduced new customer and revenue stream, it was not enough to keep the business going.
"The decline has crossed over now and is well beyond being viable," he said.
"We battled on with it basically and whilst we weren't making money like we were making, we were prepared to keep pushing it until we couldn't push any harder."

Over the years, Mr Davis has employed hundreds of people, mostly university students and teenagers looking for their first job.
The closure will leave 14 employees in search of a new job.
Nineteen-year-old Kenrick Beuth, a casual employee of Blockbuster, told ABC Radio Canberra he enjoyed the friendliness of customers.
"It's so easy because I enjoy movies and everyone who comes in has a passion for movies as well — it's very easy to get along with everyone that comes in," Mr Beuth said.
Mr Beuth said he had acquired a unique skill set from working in a video store.
"You could probably get similar experiences at Sanity, or CD stores, or even libraries but they are starting to die down as well," he said.
While he does use streaming services for certain shows that are only available online, he regularly enjoyed the ability to hire DVDs whenever it suited him.
As part of the closure, the entire collection of DVDs will go on sale.
"There's 25,000 plus titles in that store and many of them you just can't buy anywhere else," Mr Davis said.
Environmental researchers have called on the Queensland Government to take a far more hands-on approach to the issue of coal dust monitoring across the state.
The comments come following the resurgence of black lung disease, along with revelations four Queensland underground coal mines, run by Glencore and Anglo, failed to meet their obligations to monitor coal dust.
Earlier this year, a Queensland parliamentary committee raised concerns with the growing exposure to coal dust, recommending the scope of its investigation be extended from underground mines, such as the non-compliant Glencore and Anglo mines, to open-cut coal mines, coal ports, coal-fired power stations and terminals.
That has not been adopted yet and in the meantime, the independent Queensland Mines Inspectorate has been directed to take action against the mines that failed to report coal dust levels.
The central Queensland coalfields area that houses these four mines has no government air pollution monitoring.
The coal dust that comes from these and other coal mines is the largest contributor to coarse particle pollution in the country, with that type of pollution tripling in the last decade.
Dr James Whelan, a researcher with Environmental Justice Australia, said the Queensland Government was too relaxed on the issue of coal dust, with particle pollution responsible for more deaths in Queensland than motor vehicle accidents.

"We believe the Queensland Government has been far too hands off for too long," Dr Whelan said.
"With black lung rearing its ugly head in Queensland there's an urgent need for the Government to step up, to take this parliamentary inquiry very seriously indeed and to implement all the recommendations that are coming forward.
"The Queensland Government essentially looks to the mining industry to regulate themselves — neither the workers, nor the communities in the entire coalfields region has any access to air pollution monitoring data to know what they are breathing."
Dr Tim Seelig, coordinator of the Queensland Conservation Council, said given the lack of data collected by the Queensland Government in the region, this could just be the "tip of the iceberg".
"Relying on mining companies to do their own monitoring is a fundamental flaw in the system, there really ought to be mandated independent monitoring and assessments of pollutants including coal dust, at all of these mines," Dr Seelig said.
"Where we see corporations doing their own monitoring that's often on a system of trust and I don't think that's a suitable approach.
"We've got clear evidence that even the really big players are simply failing to fulfil that obligation, they shouldn't be allowed to be the only ones doing the monitoring."
Dr Whelan said NSW's Hunter Valley could be looked at as a model for air pollution monitoring, to do more than simply "name and shame" non-compliant mines.
"The Queensland Government have not demonstrated a desire to take air pollution seriously, they have not responded to recommendations to expand their monitoring or even implement the new national standards for air pollution," he said.
"The Queensland Government would be wise to follow the lead of the New South Wales Government and establish an air pollution monitoring network to look very closely at air pollution from coal mines.
He is pushing for the Queensland Government to set a target to reduce the exposure of coal workers and nearby communities to particle pollution.
"It's not enough to simply monitor air pollution, it's necessary to control it," Dr Whelan said.
In the suburbs of Perth, a building revolution is underway on a scale reminiscent of the mining sector a decade ago.
If all projects proceed, the city will have 49 new or renovated shopping centres — completed or under construction — by 2020, at a cost of more than $5 billion.
Real estate agents say the size of developments in Karrinyup, Booragoon, Innaloo and elsewhere may never be repeated.
"It's been literally a generation that they've taken to grow to the size they are," Lease Equity managing director Jim Tsgalis said.
"We're going to see that jump in five years."
Historically low borrowing costs have made it more attractive for shopping centre owners to refurbish their properties, according to real estate agents.

Labour and materials are also cheaper than they were during the mining construction boom, and the population has grown significantly from pre-boom levels, increasing the number of potential customers.
But agents say changes to town planning rules are the main reason for the scale of development underway.
"The primary thing that's driving it is the change in legislation, which previously prohibited the development of shopping centres," Mr Tsgalis said.
"We're now in an 'activity centre' platform, which essentially lifts the lid and allows shopping centres to grow to [sizes] more akin to what the demographic or size of the catchment otherwise is."
A report by UBS shows each of the six "regional" shopping centres in Perth is either undergoing or due to commence an expansion in the next three years, with the exception of Lakeside Joondalup, which was redeveloped in 2014.
The investment bank describes it as an "arms race" between centres, which have been forced to redevelop or risk losing their status as activity hubs.
A spate of "sub-regional" centres will also redevelop, bringing the annual investment on shopping centre expansions to more than $1 billion until 2020, with about 45,000 jobs to be created, according to property analysis firm Y Research.


The refurbished centres will include new cinemas, food and beverage retailers and even medical services — a vastly different proposition to the "big box" design of the past.
Some say it heralds a return to "village life", with economic and social activity contained in one place.
"They're going to be outward-facing dining precincts, a lot of greenery, rooftop [spaces], cinemas," Mr Tsgalis said.
"Bearing in mind, we still don't have deregulation of trading hours, so that's another layer that we lag behind the eastern states."
Colliers International WA associate director of retail leasing Tim Scott said the centres would reflect changing consumer tastes.
"There's going to be a big focus on entertainment, a big focus on health care, a big focus on food," Mr Scott said.
But there are some doubts as to whether all the expansions will proceed, at least according to their current timeframes.

"Properties that have been development-approved or properties that are being mooted for development won't necessarily be developed within what really is two-and-a-half years' time. It's practically impossible," Mr Tsgalis said.
Others point to the recent uptick in consumer confidence as evidence for the ability of the state's economy to absorb the new retail space.
"The population growth has slowed, but all forecasts are that it will continue to trend upwards," Mr Scott said.
"We still spend above [the] national average in terms of retail spend per person. I think there's still a strong market here.
"We think that the conditions are there, that the state [economy] is going to come back quite significantly."
Plumbers working on the Perth Children's Hospital expressed concerns about inferior brass fittings, but they were not acknowledged, a union says.
A report by the chief health officer released yesterday found the source of lead in the hospital's water, which has massively delayed the $1.2 billion facility's opening, was dezincification from brass fittings.
Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) state secretary Mick Buchan said warnings were provided.
"We had reports from the plumbers on the job that they weren't happy with the fittings that they were using," he said.
"That they saw that they were an inferior product. We relayed that message through to the Barnett government on deaf ears.
"It's an absolutely appalling approach from John Holland, the way they've handled it.

"Obviously in our view, they've underpriced that job so much."
The McGowan Government has committed to replacing the thermostatic mixing valve (TMV) assembly boxes which contained the brass fittings.
Shadow health minister Bill Marmion — a minister in the Barnett government — said the CFMEU had "no authority" to talk about the hospital.
"It has been fined for illegal activity on the site and two of its most senior operatives are banned from the site," he said.
"If the CFMEU had any interest in the wellbeing of the children of WA it would get out of the way and support the Government of the day to do all it can to get this magnificent facility opened."
But Mr Buchan said there were issues in the procurement system for PCH which needed to be dealt with.
"The quality assurance on a project of this nature needs to be top notch and they need to be there overseeing the project from day one," he said.
"We've seen it with the fire doors, we've seen it with the asbestos, and other products along the way — the tubing that was used.
"We've got to now make this hospital right and we've got to ensure that any new infrastructure project does not use this model of the cheapest tender wins the job."
Mr Buchan said every item needed to be checked that it met Australian standards.
WA Health Minister Roger Cook said he believed the hospital would open in early 2018, but only if it was safe to do so.
The WA Master Plumbers and Gasfitters Association said the determination brass fittings were to blame was a major concern for the industry generally.

The association's chief executive Murray Thomas said the work in the report's explanation made sense.
"This is the question we've been asking for months, as to how this product was put in, how was it tested, did it meet [Australian Building Code] WaterMark testing procedures?" he said.
"We understand that it did meet WaterMark testing procedures — but it's failed.
"Now we've got to look at why it failed and investigate what we can do in the future to make sure this doesn't happen again."
The association had said the problems at PCH were symptomatic of wider failings to regulate plumbing in the state, and last month received government support for a full review of plumbing laws and regulations.
Mr Cook said a review seemed like a common sense approach.
"If you can have an infrastructure project of this type and not come away with a satisfactory outcome in relation to what to me seems to be a pretty simple situation, if we could have greater clarity around those regulations, I'd certainly welcome a review around that," he said.
"Bid quickly, bid clearly and bid confidently and I'll make sure you pay the best price today."
That's Michael Garofolo's tip, and tagline, to bidders when he's standing on the podium, hammer in hand, trying to sell a house.
He has only been in the business of real estate for the past few months, but already the 34-year-old has mastered some of the most important tricks of the trade.
"I'm naturally a gifted talker, you can't shut me up.
"You have to say things that are relevant, there's always something to say about the property.
"You try and create urgency, reinforce the selling point like the good schools, good public transport.
"Talk about the home, do your research and just be prepared."

Mr Garofolo this week was crowned the state's best novice auctioneer at the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales (REINSW) state final.
The competition saw 11 finalists auctioning off a range of products which helped raise more that $11,000 for the McGrath Foundation.
There was a 2012 bottle of Penfold Grange up for sale, a VIP experience at a Screaming Jets gig, a pair of white gold diamond earrings and a luxury night out at a five-star hotel.
Mr Garofolo auctioned off the "sporting experience of a lifetime" with two platinum tickets to day three of The Ashes at the SCG.
At the fall of the hammer, the tickets sold for $400.
Mr Garofolo is currently working in the family restaurant in Sydney's inner west and has previously held jobs in finance.
The closest he has come to speaking in public was being the MC at weddings.

But it was the excitement of buying his first home a few years ago that really inspired him to enter real estate.
"I remember running around going to auctions and inspections and on auction day I thought, 'I could do this'," he said.
"I loved all that tension and fear."
It's a rare reaction to the whole auction experience, particularly in the Sydney market where emotions run high as opening bids regularly start over $1 million.
Now on the other side of the fence, Mr Garofolo said while he was working for the seller and agent it was his job as an auctioneer to keep the balance between getting the best price for the vendor and the lowest price for the bidder.
John Cunningham, president of the REINSW, said a good auctioneer knew the dynamics of when to "stretch out an auction", how to perform and to have technical knowledge.
The competitors were judged on a series of categories; from the opening address, their knowledge of the conditions of sales, their description of the item, ability to get people to make an emotional connection to the charity and how they controlled the room and numbers.
"You can't forget a bid otherwise you're penalised," Mr Cunningham said.
"Closing of an auction is one of the most important parts, they have to make sure they've extracted their best from the bidders.
"Michael had a good level of humour without being over the top and really engaged the audience. He made the whole thing flow."
There is a growing backlash over tourism in Europe as the favourite hotspots suffer from chronic overcrowding and locals face rising prices for basic needs such as rent.
The busy summer season in the Northern Hemisphere means the sight of hordes of tourists descending on cities and towns throughout Europe — to which some locals and activists are saying "enough is enough".
A protest group in Spain have attacked a sightseeing bus and have issued a warning they are planning more acts of intimidation to make tourists stay home.

During a recent summer holiday in Croatia I searched for a tour guide who could share with me the history of Dubrovnik — the UNESCO heritage site with its magnificent old walled town from the 16th century.
"See the Red Keep, the House of the Undying, the Purple Wedding setting," the guides called out as I strolled among them checking prices and departure times.
It meant nothing to me but all of those sights they were offering were from Game of Thrones — a fantasy TV series that hasn't made my watch list.
Eventually I join a tour that takes us through the rabbit warren past an old Croatian woman dressed in black sitting on her steps with her hands on her knees, muttering angrily in her native tongue.
I didn't need the language to know she was not happy.

The streets were packed as cruise ships disgorged their passengers in the thousands, while the sun beat down on tired heads.
I heard the old woman spit out the words "Game of Thrones" before she spat on the footpath as she walked by.
That was last year, after the busy holiday month of August.
How must she be feeling now? She may well have left. So many of the locals do — to escape the rubbish, the noise and most of all the tourists.
It's been another boom year and in 2017 many locals in the favourite spots around Europe have said enough.
It started in Barcelona, where quiet neighbourhoods were transformed by tourists arriving to take up residence in rental flats, many of them through AirBnB — driving up rents and forcing locals out.

Protest signs on the street read "this isn't tourism, it's an invasion" — in English of course so the tourists wouldn't miss the point.
A protest group, Arran, released video footage with a punchy music track, of its attack on an open-top tour bus, slashing its tires and splashing it with graffiti.
Passengers thought they had been caught up in a terrorist attack.
One sign that was spotted seemed even more threatening, a black silhouette and the words "why call it tourist season if we can't shoot them?"

In Venice residents held a banner that read "my future is Venice" as they marched through crowds of visitors.
And now Rome is considering limiting its visitor numbers.
If you have ever tried to take a photo at the Trevi Fountain without 1,000 other heads in shot you might understand why.
Rome has put officials in place to patrol the fountains and stop people swimming in them.
They may be popular tourism spots, but the people who call these places home have lost patience with the number of visitors arriving there and their behaviour.

Eric Zuelow, an associate professor of European history at the University of New England in America and the author of The History of Modern Tourism, predicts the numbers will only grow.
"Potentially at the same rate up to about 2030 or so," he said.
"We're looking at something that continues to grow, and for good historical reason — governments worked very hard after World War II to create this.
"Multinational organisations, what would eventually become the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), worked very hard to promote tourism.

"Tourism was a way to build the economy, it was a way to prevent the spread of communism, it was a way to promote world peace."
And yet now, ironically, it's causing nothing but grief for many Europeans — something Mr Zuelow said he finds fascinating.
"As a historian looking at this, and seeing some of the commentators saying governments need to try and stop this, [it is] almost like tourism is a plague seeping across the globe like SARs or swine flu or something.
"Well no, we built this, we've spent mountains of money [on this]."

In Palma Majorca activists set off flares outside a restaurant and threw confetti at diners — harmless perhaps, but scary for those involved.
The activists are planning another protest in San Sebastian in a week.
The Spanish Prime Minister has delivered a reminder that tourism makes up a good deal of the Spanish economy and warning people off is not the best strategy.
Tourist numbers are higher this year because of terrorist attacks in Turkey, Egypt and Tunisia, where Britons and others used to flock.
It's a delicate balance for the places still in favour — put out the welcome mat and take the money that comes with it, while not creating an intolerable environment for those left behind when their summer of discontent is over.
Indigenous leader Grace Daniels thought the prospect of iron ore mining and transport through her country in the pristine Gulf of Carpentaria had disappeared.
In 2014 the two fledgling iron mines in the Roper River region, 420 kilometres south-east of Darwin, collapsed because of the ore price slump.
But now a new company, Northern Territory Iron Ore, owned by Dubai-based firm Al Rawda Resources, thinks the climate is right to revive one of the failed projects.
"Nobody came to us about it. When I saw that [application] document I was very angry about it," said Ms Daniels, a Marra clan leader.
"This can't happen again. Look what the other miners did. They just dug, and went broke, and then left everything there."
Ms Daniels' major concern is the plan to barge the iron down the Roper River out to ships on the Gulf.
The miner has lodged a Notice of Intent application with the NT and Federal Governments for a barge loading facility 15 kilometres from the river mouth in the heart of a tidal wetlands system.
The barges would offload the ore to ships moored 40km off the mainland, and 6km north of Maria Island, a turtle nesting hotspot, with several Indigenous sacred sites.

The island sits in the North Commonwealth Marine Reserve Area.
"When they unload the iron ore to the big ship, the dust will flow," Ms Daniels said.
"The wind blows strongly on the sea and it will affect the island, fish, turtles and dugongs."
The mine site operator, Sherwin Iron, had trucked out their iron ore to Darwin.
Another Indigenous leader, and former ranger, from the community of Ngukurr near the mine, Cherry Daniels, wants the new company to abandon its barging plan, and use also trucks.
"Otherwise it will damage everything, our cultural areas," she said.
"At the port that thing will spill and will float up to where we are and kill our fish and animals that's in the water."
Their fears have been heightened because one of the collapsed miners, Western Desert Resources, left several kilometres of coastline coated with red ore dust at its Bing Bong loading facility.
"They just dug, and went broke and just left everything there," Grace Daniels said.
The Northern Territory Government's Environment Department told the ABC the plan would be scrutinised through a public Environmental Impact Statement.
It said it expected to draw up a draft terms of reference by September.

The Federal Government is considering whether the project would also need to be assessed under Commonwealth law.
The project area includes feeding and breeding areas for critically endangered curlew sandpipers and great knots, and endangered freshwater sawfish, olive ridley and flatback turtles.
Northern Territory Iron Ore's Perth-based director Bill MacKenzie told the ABC he did not want to comment on the company's application until the EIS draft terms of reference had been drawn up.
"I absolutely abide by and respect the processes of Government and its procedures that I am required to follow," Mr MacKenzie said.
"NITO is committed to being a good corporate citizen and to build strong, lasting and respectful relationships with all stakeholders and the NT."
In the company's Notice of Intent it said impacts on marine animals including turtles were expected to be low.
"There are no nesting beaches in proximity to the mouth of the Roper River, and the transhipment mooring is located … 10km away from the turtle nesting beaches on the southern side of Maria Island," the document said.
It plans to limit vessel speeds on the Roper River and at sea to reduce the risk of hitting turtles, dugongs and dolphins "to an acceptable level".
The company has assessed the risk of an ore or fuel spill as "unlikely" and "not a significant risk to the Commonwealth marine area".
The miner said it gained agreement from Indigenous traditional owners to take over Sherwin's mine lease.
It promised to protect sacred sites, and provide a financial benefits package, employment and training to traditional owners.
The Northern Land Council said it facilitated those discussions, but there was not any discussion about the issue of transport by barge down the Roper.
It said consultations would be held on that once more detail about the plan had been provided.
Green groups called on both governments to reject the barging plan.

"The company should use the port infrastructure that is already there at Darwin rather than ruining a very pristine and healthy area with high conservation and tourism values," said the Marine Conservation Society's Adele Pedder.
Resources analyst David Lennox from Fat Prophets said the company would have a challenge making the operation profitable as low prices persisted.
"In 2010 the Roper River project was expected to produce about 2 million tons of iron ore at a grade of about 48 per cent to 58 per cent," Mr Lennox said.
"Then the iron ore price was about $US147 a ton.
"Now iron ore at 62 per cent is trading at $US76 a ton. That means that the Roper River ore would probably be sold now at about $30 a ton.
"With an operating cost of $55 a tonne to $57 back in 2010, you'd have to suggest that the viability of the mine is probably at this point nearly zero."
The company hopes to begin construction in 2018 and start operations mid-2019.
The National Union of Workers and the Greens are calling for an urgent audit of staffing at a South Australian tomato facility, which has been given taxpayer funding through Government grants.
They say Perfection Fresh, which runs a major greenhouse at Two Wells, may have failed on a commitment to create full-time jobs, with many staff on precarious casual contracts.
According to the union, staff who have been at the company for as long as five years are still on casual contracts and have no access to annual leave or penalty rates.
Perfection Fresh has declined to comment, but worker Khudadad Ahmadi, who has been picking tomatoes for three years, told the ABC through a translator he still has no job certainty.
"Sometimes they are asking us for long hours," he said.
"If we reject this option from the company, for the next week they are asking us to stay home for two days and are not giving us proper shifts.
"A full-time job is very important for my life. Without it I cannot apply for [a] home loan. I don't have annual leave. My job is not safe."
According to the union, 177 full-time jobs should have been created under a 2012 grant worth $1 million.
Under a second regional development grant worth $2 million, another 80 new full-time jobs were promised, the union said.
But at the moment the company only has 70 full-time employees out of a workforce of 450 workers, according union organiser Mark Whenan.
"When public money is used I think the public expects that the government will create secure employment and jobs that people can count on," he said.
In a statement, an SA Government spokesperson said the company had documented its full-time equivalent jobs "as required by grant guidelines".
"All milestones have been completed and the company has provided documentation to certify the information provided was true and correct," the spokesperson said.

But a full-time equivalent position is not the same as an actual full-time position, said Greens MP Tammy Franks, who has backed the call for an audit.
"Those equivalent jobs are not secure and I think they are not safe," she said.
"Workers aren't able to have a rest in 57 degree heat. [It's] not good enough in South Australia."
It is not the first time Perfection Fresh, which claims its tomato glasshouse is "the largest in Australia", has been embroiled in controversy. In 2015, the company — then named D'Vine — sacked its labour hire company.
It came after reports on Four Corners of worker exploitation and the underpayment of staff.
"This company has form. They may have changed their name but they clearly haven't changed some of their practices," Ms Franks said.
"We shouldn't be trusting them to do the right thing, we should be holding them to account."
For two years Perth's sick children have waited to get access to the new state-of-the-art $1.2 billion Perth Children's Hospital, and there's still no opening date in sight. So how did we get here?
The Barnett Government announces a new children's hospital is to be built on the QEII site at Nedlands, to be opened by the end of 2015.
John Holland is announced as the managing contractor for the construction of the $1.2 billion hospital.
Treasurer Christian Porter says the company won the tender because of its "proven track record in successfully delivering major local and international capital works projects."
Construction begins on the hospital at Nedlands, with then premier Colin Barnett turning a sod at the site.
The 274-bed hospital is to include a paediatric trauma centre, a research and education facility and adolescent mental health beds.

The name of the new facility is announced as Perth Children's Hospital and its capacity is increased to 298 beds.
But the government resists pressure to build an extra floor to create a bigger a hospital.
The opening of the new hospital is pushed back to April 2016.
It was initially supposed to open in 2015.
Kim Hames blames the delay on issues with the construction company and the decision to reconfigure the hospital's layout to install an extra 24 rooms.
However, he says construction is on track to be completed by the end of November.
A number of contractors say there have been long delays in payment for their work on the hospital's construction.
Some say they are owed as much as $9 million.
The government is unable to say when the hospital will open after revealing that construction will not be completed by November 30 as expected.
It says the reasons include delays in receiving interior panels from the Philippines and a change in ownership of John Holland.
The opening of the new hospital is delayed again, with the government announcing it will open towards the end of 2016.
Almost half a kilometre of water piping in the ceiling of the new hospital is found to be faulty.
The piping will need to be replaced, but the government insists the issue will not further delay the project.
It is revealed that 900 fire door frames on the hospital will have to be replaced because they do not comply with Australian standards
Tina Chinery, the head of the new hospital, resigns to take a position in Queensland.
But new health minister John Day says the hospital will still be open by the end of the year.
Lead is identified in the drinking water supply at dangerous levels, but is not publicly reported.
At least half of the distinctive green panels that make up the facade of the problem-plagued hospital will have to be ripped down and replaced after revelations they were damaged in transit to the site.
A burst water pipe floods the basement of the hospital.
Fragments of asbestos are found in roof panels of the hospital.
John Holland says the roof will have to be replaced, while the Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) warns hundreds of workers may have been exposed to the deadly material.
The builder says the remedial work required could delay the hospital's opening. It is later revealed the panels, supplied by Australian-Chinese firm Yuanda, were not adequately audited in China, where they were manufactured.
John Holland fails to meet the scheduled building handover date of August 4.
The government now says it doesn't know when the hospital will open.
Meanwhile, doctors say the ongoing delays are compromising patient care at the ageing Princess Margaret Hospital.
It is revealed that the government is paying $500,000 a month to a parking contractor to manage hundreds of unused parking bays at the delayed Perth Children's Hospital.
It is revealed high levels of lead have been detected in the water at the site of the hospital.
The health minister is unable to guarantee the hospital will open by the end of the year.
The source of to asbestos at the hospital is found to be non-compliant panels manufactured in China, while builder John Holland is found to have had inadequate dust control measures.
Debate continues about the source of the lead contamination, however, with Mr Barnett announcing the source of the contamination has been identified as coming from outside the hospital.
But Building Commissioner Peter Gow says authorities do not "have a clear idea of where the lead has come from"
The premier later "guarantees" the hospital will be open by the end of the year.
It emerges that the hospital will not open until well into 2017.
Labor says the situation has become "farcical".
Flushing the hospital's pipes with millions of litres of water fails to either solve the problem or identify the source of the lead contamination.
Mr Barnett admits the government still does not know what is causing the contamination.
The pipes are flushed with iced water in a further bid to solve the problem.
The AMA lashes out over what it says is inaction over low staff morale at Princess Margaret Hospital, which is now being kept open far longer than was expected.
The government formally confirms practical completion of the hospital but says it will bill John Holland for the cost of trying to fix the lead contamination issue.
A phosphate solution will be pumped through the pipes to neutralise the lead.
A Building Commission audit finds lead contamination in the new Perth Children's Hospital's water supply most likely came from state-managed pipes which circle the whole medical precinct, as well as the brass fittings in the worksite itself.
The commissioner, Mr Gow, says as far back as last September, the commission had "fairly clear proof" the ring main at the medical precinct contained lead.
The government releases its own report by the Health and Treasury departments blaming leaching from brass fittings, "potentially exacerbated by dezincification" as the source of elevated lead levels still encountered at the facility.
It also found the lead contamination continued after a section of pipe identified by the building commission had been removed, making it unlikely it was the explanation of the persistent lead problem.
There were elevated levels of lead, copper and zinc found in the pipe — a dead leg attached to the ring main, but not in the hospital — further eliminating it as the source of lead contamination.
The head of the WA Child and Adolescent Health Service (CAHS) Professor Frank Daly resigns as a review of staff morale at Princess Margaret Hospital finds there has been a fundamental failure of leadership within the hospital.

The terms of a wide-ranging inquiry into the management of the problem-plagued Perth Children's Hospital Project are announced by the powerful parliamentary committee overseeing the inquiry.
It also emerges that stainless steel pipes in the facility are being eroded at an unusually fast rate, and some already need to be replaced.

A report by the state's chief health officer Tarun Weeramanthri finds brass fittings had corroded, leaching lead into the water system.
Professor Weeramanthri recommended the fittings, contained in 1,200 mixing valve assembly boxes, be removed and replaced.


The South Australian Government has begun negotiations with the crossbench in an attempt to secure passage of its controversial $370 million bank tax.
But the Premier is refusing to confirm claims he offered a deal which would see the entire proceeds of the tax spent on restoring Emergency Services Levy (ESL) remissions to households and businesses.
Former Liberal turned independent MP Duncan McFetridge said he met Jay Weatherill last week, after Dr McFetridge first raised the prospect of offering his support for the tax in return for removing ESL hikes announced in the 2014 budget.
"Initially he said that ESL remissions could come back for households. I insisted that it go back for everybody," Dr McFetridge said.
"The farmers and businesses particularly are doing it tough, as well as every household, and he agreed to that. I said I would go and lobby the Upper House.
"I know my vote in the Lower House doesn't mean a lot. They've got the numbers there... I'm happy to talk to the Upper House members about helping South Australians, because they're doing it very tough."
The Premier's office refused to confirm whether any commitments had been made to Dr McFetridge.
"The State Government is committed to securing the passage of the budget, including the bank levy," the Premier said in a statement.
"Discussions with crossbenchers will continue in the lead-up to the resumption of Parliament in late September."
Dr McFetridge, who quit the Liberal Party in May after losing pre-selection, voted with the Government yesterday to prevent the Liberal Party from stripping the banking levy from the Budget Measures Bill.
He said the Premier had provided him with costings indicating that returning the ESL remissions would cost $100 million a year - $10 million more than the banking levy would recover.
"Some people may think I'm a fool for taking the Premier at his word, but I have taken him at his word," Dr McFetridge said.

"The deal is on the table - $100.1 million worth of remissions to 651,738 properties in South Australia.
"That's a pretty good trade-off against $90 million from the big banks who can afford to pay."
If a deal is on the table it appears nobody's told the Treasurer.
Earlier in the day, Tom Koutsantonis said no offer had been made to Dr McFetridge.
"No, the House of Assembly - the Government has the majority, so no deal's been done," he said.
But Mr Koutsantonis left open the prospect of negotiating with either the Australian Conservatives or SA Best MLC John Darley, who have vowed to side the Liberals and defeat the bank tax in the Upper House.
"I'm a politician. Everything's on the table," he said.
Opposition Leader Steven Marshall said he remained confident the Upper House blockade of the bank tax would remain.
"The Liberal Party, Mr Darley and of course the Australian Conservatives will stand strong on our opposition to introducing this new bank tax in South Australia," he said.
Mr Marshall cast scorn on the suggestion that Dr McFetridge had sealed a deal to restore the ESL remissions.
"I don't think that Duncan McFetridge should be relying on a single solitary word that Jay Weatherill or Tom Koutsantonis have put to him," Mr Marshall said.
Dr McFetridge said criticism from his former party colleagues was misplaced.
"Bless them, the Liberal Party. They haven't handled independents very well. I've been around a long time in this place," he said.
"I haven't put on weight. I just have a much thicker skin."
Unlike the tense stand-off on the Korean peninsula, Australian investors took a "shoot first, ask questions later" approach to heightened global anxieties, wiping around $20 billion off the market.

The local market followed the lead of Wall Street and Europe's retreat from the escalating tensions between the US and North Korea with the ASX 200 and All Ordinaries both falling around 1.2 per cent.
Blue chips were particularly hard hit. In the "Top 20" only the consumer staples stalwarts, Wesfarmers and Woolworths, made gains.
Banks, miners, property trusts and discretionary retailers also suffered.
Only the gold miners escaped the sell-off with the gold index rising more than 2 per cent. The sector's heavyweight Newcrest was 2.1 per cent to $21.86.
The sentiment wasn't helped by some weaker than expected results.
News Corporation's locally listed shares tumbled 5.6 per cent after filing a full year loss of $817 million in the US as the traditional newspaper business continued to be a drag on the digital side of the business.
News Corp's majority owned real estate portal was similarly crunched, down 5.7 per cent after unveiling a 19 per cent fall in profit on the back of a heavy write-down on the value of its recently acquired Asian business.
Among the banks, the CBA fared the best despite ASIC chairman Greg Medcraft confirming his investigators would join the queue looking at the bank's money laundering scandal.
The CBA fell 1 per cent to $80.22. NAB posted solid third quarter result but was still beaten down 1.3 per cent to $30.08.
The big miners were also down, although it was largely due to issues across the Yellow Sea from North Korea in the port city of Dalian.
Dalian iron ore futures fell 5.2 per cent in early trade, dragging the like of Rio Tinto (-2.6 per cent) and Fortescue (-4.5 per cent) down.
The selling was spread across the region led by Hong Kong's Hang Seng (-1.9 per cent) with Korea's Kospi (-1.6 per cent) and Shanghai (-1.4per cent) not far behind.
It all led to a loss of mojo for the Australian dollar, which slipped below 79 cents against the US dollar in afternoon trade.
A proposal to build Canberra's tallest residential tower in Gungahlin has been scaled back following opposition from residents.
The Air Towers development was set to include two 26-storey residential towers and an eight-storey adjacent building.
The proposed site is located at the northern edge of the town centre at the corner of Gozzard Street and Gundaroo Drive.
The residential development would have housed about 300 apartments and 600 on-site carparks.
Representatives from Empire Global, the company behind the controversial project, met with residents this week to present an amended proposal.
"Thankfully the developer has listened to public feedback," Gungahlin Community Council vice president Henley Samuel said.
The new proposal has the towers scaled back to 18 storeys.

Council president Peter Elford said the change was necessary in an already densely populated area.
"Our concern is about the density of that entire block and the impact that would have on traffic," he said.
"Traffic is already a major concern for everyone in Gungahlin.
"It's particularly bad in that corridor along Gundaroo Drive.
"It really was just too big, especially as it would be developed across the road from two-storey developments."
Other residential towers under construction in Gungahlin's town centre include the 21- and 20-storey Infinity Towers and the 12-storey Mezzo tower.
"The developers appear to be very keen to get their development application for Air Towers underway as soon as possible," Mr Elford said.
People diagnosed with black lung have labelled global coal-mining companies Glencore and Anglo American "disgraceful" for flouting dust limit regulations and endangering the health of workers.
Queensland Mines Minister Anthony Lynham told State Parliament two of Glencore and Anglo's underground coal mines in central Queensland risked closure after failing to meet dust-monitoring obligations during the second quarter of this year.
The mines are Glencore's Oaky North and Oaky No.1 at Tieri, and Anglo's Moranbah North and Grosvenor, north-west of Rockhampton.

Glencore issued a statement acknowledging in June quarter 2017 they were non-compliant with dust monitoring and reporting.
Anglo American has also confirmed its second-quarter sampling targets of the two mines did not "fully" comply with regulations.
Former Ipswich miner Percy Verrall, 74, who has black lung, spent most of his working life in the region's coalfields and was now paying the price, diagnosed with the coal miners' disease known as pneumoconiosis.
"It shouldn't have happened. I think the Government should tell them to close down until they fix it," he said.
"The miners are only going to suffer and they've got to look after the younger generations.
"All they care about is money coming in to them, instead of protecting their workers."
Stephen Mellor from the Black Lung Victims Support Group said it was "disgraceful" mining companies were allowed to continue operating despite not meeting their obligations.
"They know how they breached it, they know what they've done and the only reason we don't know any more details is because they're in the process of damage control and trying to sort it all out without making a big deal about it," he said.
He said it was "pathetic" and believed very little had been done since the disease was redetected more than two years ago.
"They should be ashamed," he said.
"Things aren't changing quick enough. Things need to be adhered to now. We had a parliamentary inquiry that cost millions of dollars and yet they're not taking the recommendations seriously."
Mr Mellor said he had no confidence in the Mine Inspectorate's investigation.
"They've lost all their powers. You've got ministers out there saying they care for the workers, they don't care. They just care about lining their own pockets," he said.

Mr Verrall said in recent months his condition had deteriorated dramatically.

"Put it this way, I get that bad, I just want to end it. But I can't because I have Daph [my wife], my grandsons. They're the ones I'm trying to think of," he said.
His biggest worry was for the number of miners refusing to get checked for the disease.
He said they would be stupid not to take the condition seriously.
"They can finish up like me. My lung bled twice. Twice they nearly lost me, and it makes me really mad," he said.
Mr Verrall's wife Daphne said the news about the four Queensland mines was not right and something needed to be done.
Dr Lynham said the levels of non-compliance varied but the failure was unacceptable and demonstrated there was a serious issue with the safety and health management systems at these mines.
He said inspectors could require a full and independent audit of safety and health management system instructions, or prosecute or close the mines.
"Based on our knowledge of diseases caused by coal dust, it is my view that any failure to comply reflects a gross disregard of an operator's obligations to protect their workforce," he said.
Annastacia Palaszczuk said her Government would not accept excessive dust levels, "so they had better fix it up or they will face prosecution under the law".
Glencore said it was working to ensure it did not happen again.
"We are very disappointed and have begun an investigation into this matter that will include both internal and external personnel," the statement said.

"We can confirm that for the current September Quarter 2017 both mines have completed dust sampling.
"We will work with the Queensland Mines Inspectorate to ensure this won't happen again."
In a statement, Anglo American Metallurgical Coal's chief executive officer David Diamond said the company's dust monitoring was carried out as a priority and was undertaken by independent and accredited testing organisations.
"As a company we are totally committed to the recognised standard for monitoring respirable dust monitoring in coal mines, which was recently introduced by the Queensland Government," he said.
"We will work with the Queensland Government to urgently address the issue and to ensure full compliance.
"We can confirm that during the same period, we undertook independent monitoring procedures to ensure that the health and safety of all employees and contractors was not comprised at all of our sites."
Stephen Smyth from the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) said any mines not meeting their obligations should be exposed.
"It's been too long now that these companies have continued to breach legislation and not comply and the names are not disclosed and it's just unacceptable," he said.
"We welcome what the minister said ... and we hope he takes sterner action."
He said there should be a no-tolerance approach to offenders.
"The rediscovery of black lung has obviously sent shudders through the coal industry, and here we have coal companies Glencore and Anglo at these mines who continue to obviously expose workers to a high level of dust, so we need the inspector or the regulator to come in and take immediate action to ensure they're in compliance."
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation has tumbled to a $US643 million ($817 million) full-year loss after taking a scythe to the value of his cherished newspaper mastheads.

The company plunged into the red from last year's $300 million profit on the back of almost $1.3 billion in impairment charges across the business, most of which were racked up by the News and Information Services division.
The value of UK and Australian newspapers were written down by $1 billion.
Newspapers in the company's Australian stable — which includes The Australian, Herald Sun and The Daily Telegraph — had their book value slashed by almost 40 per cent to $310 million.
Another $40 million round of cost-cutting — on top of last year's $40 million in cuts — was flagged in the results for the Australian business.
News Corp also wrote down the value of its 50 per cent stake in Foxtel by $290 million.
The results pointed to a further erosion of the importance of traditional newspapers, with digital revenues accounting for 25 per cent of the News and Information Services segment revenues, compared to 22 per cent in 2016.
Overall sales revenues slipped 2 per cent, although earnings before tax, depreciation and amortisation rose 29 per cent to $1.1 billion.
Digital Real Estate Services was the big growth driver in News Corp, generating 37 per cent of all pre-tax earnings.
The company's majority-controlled Australian real estate portal REA reported a 19 per cent slide in net profit to $206.3 million, although the result was weighed down by a big write-down in its Asian business.
Stripping out one-off items, REA's profits rose 12 per cent to $204.3 million.
"I think it's fair to say on the digital advertising front that in the last half of the fiscal year, we didn't see the growth that we wanted," News Corp chief executive Robert Thomson told an investor briefing.
"We're confident there will be an improvement in advertising, coordinated with the improvement in digital audience."
"News Corp led the global debate about content value and values, prompting the digital platforms to address a dysfunctional content eco-system, in which the fake and the fraudulent have flourished."
Mr Thomson said News Corporation would make the likes of digital giants like Google and Facebook accountable for the use of its content.
"We are now in advanced discussions with those platforms over the creation of payment mechanisms for news of verified veracity."
A NSW Pizza Hut franchisee has been ordered to pay its workers almost $20,000 in underpaid wages, as the company faces further criticism from the Fair Work Ombudsman.
The outlet on Hunter Street, Newcastle was found to have been paying 24 of its workers based on an old award that had been superseded between November 2015 and May 2016.

Most of the workers were junior employees aged between 16 and 20, and the ombudsman began an investigation when six of them made a report.
"He took over the Pizza Hut on Hunter Street and just kept paying what was paid before," ombudsman Natalie James said.
"There was a very old Pizza Hut agreement in place and the base rates in the award had got higher."
The franchisee, Bhavinkumar Patel, told the ombudsman he was not aware he was breaking the law, and had not been trained on workplace law by Pizza Hut.
Ms James said Mr Patel was operating his first business since emigrating from India.
She said he co-operated with inspectors and had entered into an enforceable undertaking to repay the wages.
"It's very clear to us that he wasn't well briefed by Pizza Hut in relation to workplace laws here in Australia."
The findings against Mr Patel's franchise were part of an investigation into 34 Pizza Hut franchisees that identified significant issues relating to delivery drivers.
The ombudsman is taking legal action against one franchisee on the Gold Coast for allegedly engaging in sham contracting and underpaying a delivery driver by more than $6,000, and has entered into enforceable undertakings with three other franchisees.
Ms James said Pizza Hut had not provided a response to the findings of the compliance investigation, which were made public in January.
"We're concerned that [if] these sorts of breaches were extrapolated throughout the Pizza Hut workforce, throughout the over 250-odd stores they have operating in Australia, we would be looking at very serious underpayment," she said.
"We expect better from them, because they should have systems in place to make sure people who buy their outlets, who might not be experienced businesspeople, do have the information they need to pay their workers right."
Pizza Hut told the ABC in a statement it took its responsibilities very seriously and had asked the ombudsman for information on any breaches.
Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association assistant secretary in Newcastle, David Bliss, said urgent government action was needed, including increasing penalties for breaches of workplace law.
"Ultimately this is an opportunity for the Turnbull Federal Government to push forward its vulnerable worker legislation, which has stalled before the Parliament," he said.
A spokesman for Employment Minister Michaelia Cash said debate on the bill would continue next week.
A protest by taxi drivers over Uber X pick-ups from Adelaide Airport, which saw passengers being forced to take the bus into the CBD, has ended.

Taxi drivers began protesting at the airport last night after a new agreement that will allow Uber to collect people from the terminal was announced.
The deal was meant to take effect immediately, but last night Uber said in a statement it had temporarily suspended pick-ups from the airport.
Uber X rides are still unavailable from the airport.
The airport said the cabbies agreed to stand down after they were assured measures would be taken to check the accreditation of ride-sharing drivers.
Signs specifically promoting Uber drivers will also be removed from the terminal.
Airport manager Brenton Cox hoped that will be enough to satisfy taxi drivers upset with the arrival of ride-sharing services.
"We're all here to serve the travelling public and at the end of the day we do have the same customer," he said.
"So I'm hoping at this point things will return to normal for the long term."

Earlier today, taxi drivers threatened to block Uber drives and also refused to take any passengers, but Adelaide Metro offered free bus rides to the city to help with the congestion.
The protest ended just after lunch.
Transport Minister Stephen Mullighan has labelled the arrangement a "secret deal" between the airport and Uber.
"This came as a complete shock to the industry, it came completely out of the blue to the Government," Mr Mullighan said.
"It's no surprise that the industry responded badly considering that they hadn't been consulted by the airport.
"We are certainly urging the airport and the industry to get around the table and try and resolve these issues before they cause any further impacts."
Opposition Leader Steven Marshall blamed the stand-off over airport transport on Mr Mullighan.
But Labor swiftly responded with a swipe at Mr Marshall.
"[He is] the guy who would have let Uber in with no compensation for taxi drivers and no working-with-children checks," Labor MP Chris Picton said.

Rising tensions between the United States and North Korea have weighed on global share markets for the third day in a row.

A counter threat by North Korea to launch ballistic missiles near the US Pacific territory of Guam saw US President Donald Trump step up the rhetoric again.
Overnight Mr Trump said if North Korea did anything to the US or its allies, "things will happen to them like they never thought possible".
Financial and technology stocks and big retailers were among the losers on Wall Street.
Department stores were sold off after disappointing quarterly results.
Macy's fell more than 10 per cent after it said sales continued to fall in the second quarter.
The S&P 500 Index saw its biggest one-day fall since May, dropping nearly 1.5 per cent.
And the fear index, the VIX, jumped by more than 40 per cent.
In Europe, investors also took flight.
The FTSE 100 in London fell nearly 1.5 per cent.
In futures trade here, the ASX SPI 200 Index is down more than 1 per cent to 5,634 indicating the local share market could see some big falls today.
Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe is appearing before a parliamentary committee to give his twice-yearly testimony to the House Economics Committee.
He will no doubt also be asked about the money-laundering scandal engulfing the Commonwealth Bank.
Oil prices lost ground on more worries about slowing demand.
News that Russian oil producer Gazprom was looking at resuming production in matured oil fields prompted the sell-off.
Brent crude fell nearly 2 per cent to $US51.74 a barrel.
Spot gold rose to the highest in two months on the geopolitical tensions.
The US dollar was weighed down by weaker business inflation figures as US producer prices marked their biggest fall in a year.
The producer price index fell by 0.1 per cent over July but rose by 1.9 per cent over the year. US consumer inflation figures are out tonight.
There is more trouble for ride-booking firm Uber.
Venture capital company Benchmark Capital is suing former Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick to try and force him to leave the Uber board.
Mr Kalanick was forced to step down as chief executive after a sexual harassment scandal but he remains on the Uber board.
But the lawsuit accuses Mr Kalanick of trying to stack the Uber board with loyal allies, "in an effort to insulate his prior conduct from scrutiny and clear the path for his eventual return as CEO".
Benchmark wants the court to force Mr Kalanick to step down and to stop him from appointing other directors.
And Uber's global head of operations, Ryan Graves, is the latest executive to resign but he will remain on the Uber board.
Uber has sacked at least 20 employees as a result of an investigation into claims of sexual harassment and bullying at the company.
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has confirmed it will investigate the Commonwealth Bank's handling of suspicions its intelligent deposit machines were used by money launderers and criminal gangs.
ASIC chairman Greg Medcraft said the corporate regulator would investigate whether the CBA's board complied with continuous disclosure laws when it decided not to alert investors to the suspicious behaviour.
Earlier this week, CBA chairwoman Catherine Livingstone said the bank's board first became aware the intelligent deposit machines were at risk of being targeted by criminal elements including money launderers in the second half of 2015.
Speaking to a parliamentary joint committee in Sydney this morning, Mr Medcraft said ASIC would look specifically at whether the CBA's officers and directors complied with their disclosure duties under the Corporations Act.

"I wanted to inform the committee that ASIC has commenced inquiries into this matter and any consequences this matter has for the laws we administer," Mr Medcraft said.
Mr Medcraft said the probe would examine whether the CBA complied with their licensing obligations, "to act efficiently, honestly and fairly" in line with a requirement to report potential liabilities.
Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe told a parliamentary committee he did not wish to make any specific comments on the matter as it was before the courts, but that trust in the banking system had been strained.
"It is fair to say that service has taken a back seat to sales," Dr Lowe said.
He said if the CBA was found to have breached anti-money laundering and terrorism funding laws, the bank would need to be held to account.
"It is a very serious matter," he said. "I mean, we have these rules and these laws for reasons.
"The focus needs to be on rebuilding trust, delivering high quality service to customers and a strong focus on risk management."
Commonwealth Bank chief executive Ian Narev has rejected criticism the bank's board should have informed investors as soon as it became aware of the gravity of the money-laundering allegations.
"In an organisation of this size there are individual items that come to the attention of board and management from regulators and others all the time," Mr Narev told the ABC on Wednesday.
"We shouldn't and can't be in a situation where we could disclose every time anything comes to our attention. That would end up being very confusing to the market."
Treasurer Scott Morrison yesterday described the latest scandal engulfing the Commonwealth Bank as "an epic fail" and "incredibly serious".

Mr Morrison said the decision not to disclose the suspicions to investors was one of the reasons he was "puzzled" about the CBA's handling of the allegations.
Mr Medcraft noted companies including the CBA were not required to alert ASIC to breaches of anti-money-laundering and terror-financing laws.
However, in his address to the parliamentary committee, Mr Medcraft repeated his earlier concerns about the importance of culture in financial services firms.
"Our view is that culture is a set of shared values and assumptions within an organisation," Mr Medcraft said.
"It reflects the underlying mindset of an organisation and the unwritten rules for how things really work."
"If the culture and values of a business are not aligned with customer outcomes it is easy to see how a trust deficit will emerge and this will impact its long-term sustainability."
Without specifically mentioning the Commonwealth Bank, Mr Medcraft alluded to an earlier case, involving the Centro property group, where disclosure rules were breached.

Mr Medcraft said directors needed to, "bring professional scepticism in exercising their role" while ensuring the effectiveness of risk-management systems.
He added banks needed to lift their game or risk losing public trust.
"I would encourage them to be more transparent, sometimes they are far too legalistic," he said.
"I would say to all of them: think about your reputation because you have legal risk and you have reputational risk."
The ASIC investigation of the money-laundering scandal is the latest chapter overshadowing CBA's full-year profit of $9.93 billion announced on Wednesday.
Financial intelligence agency AUSTRAC alleged the Commonwealth breached anti-money-laundering regulations on almost 54,000 occasions and failed to report suspicious activity when they become aware.
The Commonwealth Bank is preparing a defence while chief executive Mr Narev has conceded "mistakes were made" in the handling of the scandal.
In a statement, a spokesperson said the Commonwealth Bank had noted Mr Medcraft's comments.
"We respect ASIC and will always work with the regulator to assist it with any inquiries it may have in relation to our business," they said.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan
The fight between West Papuan workers and mining giant Freeport-McMoRan has intensified with the US-owned company accused of denying health care for striking workers and education for their children.

A global trade union is in Jakarta to lobby the Indonesian Government to help solve the ongoing dispute between Freeport and an estimated 4,000 workers from the Grasberg mine in West Papua.
The unions say the workers have been sacked for taking part in legal strike action and the company is now withholding basic rights.
Thousands of workers went on strike after their conditions were reduced as Freeport battled with the Indonesian Government over a new mining permit.
Freeport said the workers were deemed to have resigned as they breached their contracts at the world's second largest copper mine.

Andrew Vickers from Australia's CFMEU said education for the children of the workers, and healthcare entitlements, among other things, had been withdrawn.
"We have seen cases of people being discharged from hospital as a consequence of that lack of coverage and tragically we have been told that 10 people have died who had been discharged from hospitals because of this lack of healthcare coverage," Mr Vickers, who is in Jakarta to lobby for the workers, told the ABC.
"We also understand that with no guaranteed income, banks are foreclosing on mortgages so it's a very tragic set of circumstances occurring in West Papua as a consequence of this labour dispute."
Mr Vickers said it was an "appalling" violation of human rights and the workers were legally striking.
"In the case of PT Freeport, in West Papua in the vicinity of the Grasberg mine, the company just has so much power and so much control," Adam Lee from the IndustriALL Global Union, who has also travelled to Jakarta, said.
"And they've actually been able to influence the schools so the children of the strikers are not able to get an education."
The unions have demanded access to the mine site and surrounding communities in the non-accessible area of West Papua.
"We'd love to get up there to Grasberg to where the communities are, where these miners live and to dig deeper and get even better and clearer information about all the impacts of what the company is doing," Mr Lee said.
"Unfortunately, the company isn't giving permission for the unions or the media to go up there."
Freeport spokeswoman Riza Pratama told the ABC the workers were considered to have resigned and the company was not obliged to continue paying them benefits, including providing schooling for their children.

First home buyers should retain access to a $10,000 government grant and stamp duty concessions, says a building lobby group, despite a report showing WA is in the midst of a housing glut.
With the State Government preparing for the release of a tough budget next month, the Master Builders Association (MBA) has warned the grant and concessions are still critical to the housing sector.

The warning contrasts sharply with a BIS Oxford Economics report that said the state's housing market was oversupplied at a level unmatched nationally.
The MBA's executive director in WA, Michael McLean, has questioned that report.
"Looking at the figures, there's probably an oversupply of some units and apartments in Western Australia at the moment, but we don't believe there's an oversupply of housing generally," he said.
"It's fair to say that we've come off a very high peak of over 31,000 dwelling units about three years ago, and we're currently building at less than 19,000 dwelling units per annum.
"We believe that housing is becoming more affordable, and there are a lot more options for prospective home buyers.
"But the patient is still not well. The housing industry requires some stimulus."
Mr McLean said a fall in population growth and a drop in foreign labour had put pressure on the sector.
He called on the State Government to retain the $10,000 first home owners grant, and concessions to stamp duty.
"Western Australia is almost like a different country to the rest of Australia," he said.
"We have experienced the fall off the cliff three years ago and the east coast are approaching the cliff as we speak. We've actually reached the bottom and we've seen some very early signs of recovery and improvement in consumer sentiment.
"If the housing industry were to be adversely impacted by the state budget, you can kiss goodbye to 9,000 or 10,000 homes in the next financial year."
Mr McLean rejected a suggestion WA could afford to go without that many homes.
"We believe that there's some hidden demand where people are still not in the market that would like to come into the market if circumstances were to improve.
"We think that this year's state budget looms as the most important for a decade in terms of the future viability of the housing industry in Western Australia."
The MBA had submitted calculations to Treasurer Ben Wyatt suggesting any investment in the first home owner's grant would bring a return to government coffers via taxes and charges, as well as stimulating employment.
Six weeks ago, companies in 64 countries ground to a halt — their computers frozen by brazen hackers demanding a ransom to get them going again.
It was just one of many attacks, and cyber security expert Craig McDonald says Australia is experiencing an explosion in cyber-crime.
"For the past 24 months we've seen a rise in cyber crime here in Australia of about 300 per cent, which is consistent globally, but even in the last couple of months that's actually increased to about 400 per cent," Mr McDonald told the ABC.
That comes as a huge cost to the economy. Each cyber-attack costs an average $276,000.
"Those that are reporting, it's now starting to hit into the, definitely into the billions, and it wouldn't be too much to start seeing it into the trillions once you start looking at the total economic impact," Mr McDonald, head of cyber crime firm MailGuard, said.
And it's not just corporates in the scammers' firing line.
It is tax time, and the prospect of getting their hands on some of the $26 billion the ATO pays out in refunds, attracts scammers like bees around a honey pot.
"This year already we've had about 29,000 reports of scams and we know that people have lost about $1.6 million," assistant tax commissioner Kath Anderson said.
But tax time is only just beginning.
"We see people who put things on social media; they'll put a copy of their drivers licence or something that otherwise identifies them, and makes it available to everybody to be able to use," Ms Anderson noted.
But not everybody is careless. Microsoft's Troy Hunt said some were just duped by criminals getting increasingly sophisticated.
"It's very much a low-risk crime and in many cases, even when we see crimes committed against Aussies in terms of fraudulent activity with the ATO or anyone else, it could be perpetrated by people on the other side of the world."
The reality of the situation hit home to your correspondent recently.
A few weeks ago, my 20-year-old son received an unexpected $8,000 gift from the Tax Office.
Scammers had hacked his details to file a fake tax return. It didn't take long before a bogus tax official called demanding the refund be repaid, although that repayment wasn't ever intended for the Commonwealth's consolidated revenue.
"If somebody gets hold of your personal information, they can create a return that looks legitimate and so even with all of that we can't necessarily detect every return that's incorrect," Ms Anderson said, defending the ATO for paying out on fake tax returns.
While many believe the ATO should pick up on the fraudsters, cyber-crime expert Troy Hunt is prepared to cut it some slack.
"If it had have been $1 million, I am sure they would have paid more attention to it," Mr Hunt said.
"Less than $10,000, I can imagine how that is something which is a fairly common anomaly, if not a little bit strange for this individual."
Mr Hunt adds that while the Tax Office isn't blameless, there are limits to how tight its security can be.
"Can they do more? You can always strengthen security, but the challenge for an organisation like the ATO is that they need to make these systems useable and accessible to people as well," he said.
The ATO has a warning for anyone who wrongly receives a larger-than-expected tax return.
Don't spend it, because when the scams are uncovered, it will want its money back.
Energy retailers would be forced to offer assistance to people at risk of not paying their bills under one of 13 recommendation put forward by Victoria's peak welfare group.
The report, produced by the Victorian Council of Social Service (VCOSS) with RMIT University, considered the difficulties low and middle-income Australians have paying their power bills, and outlined options for governments to help.
We've had a look at the 13 recommendations, spoken to key players and analysed whether any of the recommendations are likely to be adopted.
1. Increase, and regularly review, income support payments so they correspond with community living standards and rises in the cost of energy.
Federal Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg said the Coalition Government was still working with energy companies to try to reduce skyrocketing prices.

"The industry and Government will continue to work together over the coming months to make more changes that will ensure families do not have to pay a cent more for electricity than they need to," Mr Frydenberg said.
But Australian National University (ANU) social policy expert Peter Whiteford said changing income support payments so they corresponded with energy prices would be challenging.
"Basically, there was a clean energy supplement [under the last federal Labor government] that was payable on your base payment," he said.
"The complexity is about determining what that should be and how that's adequate, because there is going to be people with wide variations of energy costs."
2. Legislate minimum energy supply standards for private rental housing.
The State Government is looking into the private rental market and is reviewing the Residential Tenancies Act.
However, it has not been made clear whether the Government will legislate to implement minimum energy supply standards.
3. Expand energy-efficiency retrofits, a method used to calculate energy savings in Victoria's social housing.
Victorian Energy and Environment Minister Lily D'Ambrosio's office told the ABC that over the course of the Andrews Government's term, it has spent $17 million to reduce energy costs for low-income households.
She said the Government was committed to helping to fund methods to help families save energy.

4. Establish long-term energy-efficiency programs for low-income households.
Ms D'Ambrosio said the Government had already acted on the recommendation and it planned to do more.
"We understand the pressures Victorian consumers are facing from rising gas and electricity prices, and we're putting in place a range of measures to assist," she said.
5. Give tenants the right to make non-structural modifications without landlord consent to allow for more cost-effective energy supply.
The State Government would not comment on this recommendation while rental legislation is being reviewed.
Allowing non-structural modification to homes is being considered as part of that review.
6. Review the eligibility of the Medical Cooling Concession.
The federal benefit provides a 17.5 per cent discount on summer electricity costs for people who have a medical condition that affects the body's ability to regulate temperature.

VCOSS recommended the Government determine whether it adequately assists people with their energy needs.
The office of Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt was contacted but said he was unable to comment.
Professor Whiteford said reviewing medical payments around energy prices would be worthwhile.
7. Give an outline to energy companies on how they should provide payment difficulty assistance to customers.
While he would not respond to the recommendation directly, Mr Frydenberg said the state of energy prices was unacceptable.
"It is simply not good enough that some consumers cannot always afford to turn on their lights, heating and equipment. This must stop," he said.
8. Require energy retailers to offer help to people who can't pay their energy bills.

Professor Whiteford said although the recommendation was worthy, if implemented it would be met with significant opposition.
"We used to have an obligation on telephone companies that they charge pensioners less before Telstra was privatised, so it can be done," he said.
"But it gets complicated when there is a competitive market and a lot of privatised companies who I'm sure wouldn't be happy with it."
9. Ensure that universal access to emergency relief and financial counselling services are maintained.
Ms D'Ambrosio said the State Government was still committed to ensuring there were programs in place to help Victorians pay for their energy bills.
"We also have a suite of programs to help all Victorians — including low-income Victorians — get a better deal," Ms D'Ambrosio said.
10. Improve energy price transparency by introducing mandatory energy comparison rates.
The Federal Government said it was taking "decisive action" on this issue.
Mr Frydenberg told the ABC that "on Wednesday, the PM secured agreement from the energy retailers on immediate measures and ongoing changes, to be backed by law, to put individuals and families first".
"As part of the agreement this includes a requirement for retailers to contact their customers who are on expired discounts and to tell them how much they can save on a better deal."
11. Create an independent energy broker to help consumers find the best deal.
Mr Frydenberg said the Government was still looking into other options with energy suppliers, but would not comment on whether an independent broker would be a viable option.
12. Increase the Utility Relief Grant — a payment available for people who are unable to pay their mains electricity, gas or water bill due to a temporary financial crisis — so it better corresponds with rising house hold costs.
Ms D'Ambrosio said the current amount of concessions was comprehensive enough.

"The Government offers a variety of concessions and benefits to eligible cardholders to assist low-income Victorians with energy bills," she said.
"The concessions framework is comprehensive, and includes programs that are designed to provide relief for both electricity and gas costs."
13. Expand access to the No Interest Loan Scheme.
The scheme provides individuals and families on low incomes access to more affordable credit, by providing additional funding.
Both the federal and state governments would not comment on this particular recommendation specifically.
The ABC understands the Victorian Government will release a comprehensive review of the state's energy retailers soon.
Removing poker machines from Tasmanian hotels and clubs would see millions of dollars flow into the state's economy each year and create hundreds of jobs, a new report from Anglicare has found.

Anglicare has said its research into the economic implications of gambling proves restricting poker machines to casinos will bring social and economic benefits to the state.
Report author John Mangan said Tasmanians lose on average $113 million a year on poker machines in the state's pubs and clubs.
The report estimated there are 2,000 problem gamblers, 6,000 moderate risk gamblers and 15,000 low risk-gamblers in the state.
Professor Mangan's economic modelling assumed that people would be less likely to spend gamble money on poker machines at casinos, than at their local pub or club.
"You have a lot of impulse gambling due to proximity and if you shift it to casinos, that will drop off," he said.
Prof Mangan's modelling found that if 100 per cent of gambling losses from hotels and clubs was diverted it would create 670 full time jobs, and add $91 million annually to Tasmania's gross output and add $45 million in wages, profits and dividends.
Based on the report's most conservative estimate that only half of gambling losses would be diverted to the economy, 183 full time jobs would be created, $33 million would be added annually in gross output, $21 million in net additions to gross state product and $11 million in wages, profits and dividends.
"The money you spend on gambling is money you are not spending on anything else," Professor Mangan said.
He also found most of the money brought in by poker machines was leaving the state through poker machine leases or to private shareholders.

Federal Group owns both of Tasmania's two casinos, and has exclusive rights to all of the state's poker machines under a licence set to expire in 2023.
"Leakage occurs via poker machine leases payable to lease financiers and dividends to interstate shareholders of Federal Hotels via its gaming business Network Gaming," Professor Mangan said.

He also found the Tasmanian Government was not dependent on gambling revenue, receiving less than 1 per cent of its revenue from gambling.
Professor Mangan said that put Tasmania in a unique position to restructure the gaming industry without significantly affecting state revenue.
"Tasmania has such a small exposure in terms of its revenue has a great opportunity to change the structures of the industry which is creating social problems all across Australia," he said.
Federal Group's managing director, Greg Farrell, has previously dismissed evidence suggesting the majority of Tasmanians are worried about the social impact of poker machines.
Anglicare's Social Action and Research Centre manager Meg Webb said the research proved poker machines are bad for the economy.
"This is a final plank in an argument which is already robust in terms of the harms caused by poker machines," Ms Webb said.
"This report could give our state leaders every confidence that they can make a decision about poker machines that is not only interest of the people, it is in the best interest of the economy.
"Economically, the best outcome is for us to get them (poker machines) out of our local suburbs."
A parliamentary inquiry is currently underway to examine the Federal Group monopoly on poker machines, amid calls for more assistance for problem gamblers.
The Tasmanian Government has already vowed to put gaming licences out to public tender, which could break the monopoly Federal Group has held for over 40 years.
Federal Group has been contacted for comment.
Professor Mangan will present the findings to the State Government's Joint Select Committee on future gaming markets today.
The Indian mining giant Adani's Abbot Point coal terminal in Northern Queensland has avoided a multi-million-dollar fine, but has been slugged $12,000 over an environmental breach.
Queensland's Environment Department has fined the operators of the facility just over $12,000 for releasing sediment stormwater during Tropical Cyclone Debbie at a level many times higher than allowed.
The unauthorised release took place in March, at the same coal loading facility Adani plans to significantly expand as part of its multi-billion-dollar proposed development of Australia's largest coal mine in the nearby Galilee Basin.
The Department of Environment and Heritage Protection said the company was granted a temporary emissions licence (TEL) during the rain event, which permitted an elevated suspended solid limit on stormwater releases.
But the company advised the department on April 6 it had breached the conditions, advising they had released sediment amounts more than eight times the level it was licenced for.
"This stormwater was discharged to the surrounding marine waters," the department said in a statement.
"Temporary emissions licences and environmental authorities are not taken lightly by the department and there can be harsh penalties for companies that breach their approvals."
The department said the stormwater release did not enter the adjacent Caley Valley wetlands and investigations were continuing.

Environment Department director-general Jim Reeves has previously told the ABC fines for non-compliance could be in the millions.
"There are serious penalties for corporations whose non-compliance with their environmental authorities or temporary emissions licences causes environmental harm, including fines of up to $3.8 million if the non-compliance was wilful, or $2.7 million if the non-compliance was unintentional," Mr Reeves said.
The company has until August 17 to contest the fine in court.
In a statement from Adani company Abbot Point Bulk Coal (APB), it said it strongly rejected that "it allowed contaminated floodwater to flow into abutting marine environment during severe Tropic Cyclone Debbie in March 2017".
"APB notes the State Government has imposed a fine of $12,190 for the alleged breach and the company is now considering its options.
"APB is disappointed that Department of Environment and Heritage Protection has released details of the fine to media but did not detail the fine notices issued to other parties following Cyclone Debbie."
The Queensland Resources Council declined to comment.
Mackay Conservation Group coordinator Peter McCallum said the fine was inadequate and would encourage future environmental harm at Abbot Point rather than preventative action by the company.
Mr McCallum visited Abbot Point with department officials in April to inspect the pollution.
"It is hard to see how this fine can act as a deterrent. Adani made over $250 million in revenue at Abbot Point in the last financial year, with this fine representing a miniscule 0.005 per cent," he said.
"Without sufficient penalties for breaching environmental conditions there's little point in having them."

Four Queensland underground coal mines risk closure after allegedly failing to meet their dust-monitoring obligations, Mines Minister Anthony Lynham has told State Parliament.
The mines are Glencore's Oaky North and Oaky No.1 at Tieri, and Anglo's Moranbah North and Grosvenor, north-west of Rockhampton in central Queensland.
Dr Lynham said the dust-monitoring failure occurred during the second quarter of this year, and could lead to the mines' closures.
"I have been advised that the levels of non-compliance vary," he said.
"However, in my view, any failure to meet their safety and health obligation is not acceptable.
"Mines inspectors have statutory independence and I therefore have no authority to direct them.
"I have voiced my concerns to the Mines Inspectorate and have been assured that decisive action is underway."
Global mining company Glencore issued a statement acknowledging in the June Quarter 2017 they were non-compliant with completing the required level of dust monitoring and reporting at the Oaky Number 1 and Oaky North coal mines.
"We are very disappointed and have begun an investigation into this matter that will include both internal and external personnel," the statement said.
"We can confirm that for the current September quarter 2017 both mines have completed dust sampling.
"We will work with the Queensland Mines Inspectorate to ensure this won't happen again."
A Queensland Mines spokesman said the four mines have until August 15 to fulfil the requirements of the directives issued to them.
"The Mines Inspectorate has already met with one operator and has called in the second operator for next week," the inspector said.
"Both operators will be required to submit evidence that they have in place dust monitoring plans which meet their regulatory obligations.
"One operator will increase dust monitoring and reporting and submit their dust monitoring plan for scrutiny by mines inspectors.
"Discussions continue with the second operator regarding appropriate action to ensure compliance.
"While we expect the mines to meet the requirements of the directives, failure to do so may result in further action – this could include issuing further directives to halt mining operations or prosecution."
Stephen Smyth from the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) said any mines not meeting their obligations should be exposed.
"It's been too long now that these companies have continued to breach legislation and not comply and the names are not disclosed and it's just unacceptable," he said.
"We welcome what the Minister said tonight and we hope he takes sterner action."
He said there should be a no-tolerance approach to offenders.
"The rediscovery of black lung has obviously sent shudders through the coal industry, and here we have coal companies Glencore and Anglo at these mines who continue to obviously expose workers to a high level of dust, so we need the inspector or the regulator to come in and take immediate action to ensure they're in compliance."
MP Jo-Ann Miller, who chairs the Coal Workers' Pneumoconiosis Select Committee, said the Government was not without blame after failing to respond to the black lung report tabled in May.
"It's responded to child safety reports in a prompt fashion which is good but when it comes to the Black Lung Report for some reason there's been a lot of dithering," she said.
"We have 23 coal miners in Queensland already diagnosed with this disease. Doesn't the Government value the lives of these coal miners in Queensland, what's the difference?
"Why won't they come out and adopt this report now?"
Taxi drivers have refused to pick up passengers from Adelaide Airport as a stoush with Uber drivers over a new deal escalates.
The airport announced on Thursday it had reached an agreement with Uber to allow ride-sharing services to collect people from the terminal, ending a monopoly long held by the taxi industry.

The deal has taken immediate effect, with signs outside the terminal directing people to a new Uber pick-up area next to the carpark.
But more than 100 taxi drivers have protested against the move, stopping work and causing widespread disruption and confusion for arriving passengers, many of whom were forced to make alternative transport arrangements.
The drivers are vowing to continue their protest throughout the day and block any Uber drivers who tried to pick up passengers.
"Six months ago, the Transport Minister promised there [would] be no Uber rank at the airport," taxi driver Surender Chahal said.
"Tomorrow not a single Uber will pass from here. We will not let anybody pass."
Mr Chahal said the taxi drivers were concerned some Uber drivers were working without the right accreditation.

In a statement, Uber said it had "temporarily suspended pick-ups" from the airport due to safety concerns for drivers and passengers.
"We'll continue liaising with airport security and the AFP as they handle the situation," the company said.
The state's Taxi Council was earlier critical of the deal between the airport and Uber.
"Uber has a tendency to price surge and I think the public will be greatly disappointed if they book for a vehicle, only to find out they're paying three times the price of what it would have cost them to catch a taxi," president Jim Triantafyllou said.
The airport's managing director, Mark Young, said the deal did not mean taxis would be forced out.
"We have been a major funder of a number of industry initiatives and passenger initiatives with the taxi council of South Australia so our relationship is very good and I expect that to continue," he said.

Origin Energy is on track to post another heavy full-year loss, in the order of $2.5 billion, after taking the knife again to the value of its assets.

Ahead of next week's full-year profit release, Origin announced a further $1.2 billion of impairment charges against its stake in the Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) project and the value of a collection traditional oil and gas assets that have been bundled together to be spun-off as Lattice Energy.
The new write-downs follow the $1.9 billion worth of impairments announced at Origin's half-yearly results in February.
The consensus forecast from analysts covering Origin is it will churn out underlying full-year earnings of around $520 million.
Factoring in the write-downs, Origin is likely to report a full-year loss of around $2.5 billion, taking the cumulative loss since 2015 to around $3.8 billion.
It will also be around $9.5 billion below Origin's record full-year profit in 2009 which was inflated by the sale of a large stake in the APLNG project to the energy giant Conoco Phillips.
The write-down is part of a regular biannual review of the value of assets ahead of results.
Recent results have been brutalised by declining oil prices which have more than halved since mid-2014. Origin's share price has also halved to around $7 per share over the same period.

In the latest review, Origin cut the value of its 37.5 per cent stake in the $27 billion APLNG project, based at the Queensland port of Gladstone, by $800 million. The Lattice assets were written down by $400 million.
Writing down the Lattice assets will not help Origin's plans to fast track the reduction of debt which grew beyond $13 billion in 2015.
Analysts are hoping debt will come in at less than $9 billion when the 2017 accounts are tabled.
However, the write-down would have been far more savage if based on the current situation of oil at around $US53 a barrel and the Australian dollar at close to 80 US cents, rather than long-term valuations.
Origin's long term [2022] price assumption for the global oil benchmark Brent crude was cut from $US71/barrel back in February to $US67/barrel, while the exchange rate figure was bumped up from 70 US cents to 74 US cents against the Australian dollar.
RBC analyst Ben Wilson said the new impairment was not surprising given Origin had been holding on to higher oil price assumptions and a lower Australian dollar than many forecasts.
"Prior to the impairment, we estimate that the book value of the [Lattice] assets held for sale is approximately $1.6bn which reduces to $1.3bn post impairment," Mr Wilson wrote in a note to clients.
The book value for the APLNG stake will now be cut from $10.5 billion to $9.7 billion
However, Mr Wilson said it was not all bad news for Origin.
"We retain an outperform recommendation on Origin and continue to like it for the debt reduction story and the [earnings] growth as APLNG ramps up," Mr Wilson said.

Hundreds of Australians are owed millions of dollars in compensation mostly from businesses that have gone bankrupt, with many of them victims of bad financial advice.
Rob and Donna-Rose McAneney were forced to sell their home of 17 years and left destitute after following dubious advice from financial advisor Peter Spann and his firm Freeman Fox.
They were regulars in the audience during the mid-to-late 2000s as Mr Spann spruiked to novice investors.
"You were walking out of places thinking you are crazy if you didn't join him in buying the product, because he was that kind of sales person onstage," Ms McAneney said.
The McAneneys were advised to invest half a million dollars in complex structured products with Macquarie Bank.
"You couldn't lose money according to Peter," Mr McAneney said.
Management consultant Tony Wheeler was also encouraged to inject as much as he could.
"You had Macquarie Bank representatives on stage actually presenting the product ... and then Peter Spann would come back onto the stage afterwards and basically do the hype which was, 'can you believe what you've just heard?" Mr Wheeler said.
"It was actually marketed as a safe product with lower volatility than both the share market and real estate."

When the global financial crisis hit hard, those so-called safe products collapsed in value and investors were trapped.
"You are locked in for several years. By the time we realised what was happening it was too late," Mr McAneney said.
"All our resources, all our available funds and our cash had to feed these products."
"There was no hope for improving. It felt like tossing money down the drain.
"I don't wish anybody this kind of hardship in their life."
It has also been devastating for Mr Wheeler, who estimates losing $350,000.

To try and claw something back, Mr Wheeler made a claim with the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) alleging his losses were due to inappropriate advice.
The FOS determined he was owed $137,000 but he is still waiting to receive it.
The McAneneys also lodged a claim and the FOS determined they were owed $195,000. They are also yet to receive any money.
Both parties have not received a cent because Mr Spann's business was sold to AG Stockbroking which has gone into administration.
The firm's public indemnity insurer Dual Australia has denied their claim because it said the policy did not provide adequate coverage.
In a statement late today, the administrator Korda Mentha said both the McAneneys and Mr Wheeler would receive some money, but it will be far short of the amount ordered by the ombudsman.
Lawyer Josh Mennen from Maurice Blackburn said his firm had acted for dozens of people with strong claims against their financial advisers since the GFC.
"Unfortunately they have been unable to get access to any compensation because the financial adviser has gone bust, and so they need to be able to get direct access to the professional indemnity insurer," Mr Mennen said.
There are 200 people owed a total of $17 million in compensation after winning ombudsman decisions, but the business responsible is unable or unwilling to pay.
The real figure for unpaid losses is believed to be much higher.
"That is only the tip of the iceberg because there's many more people who are unable to have their cases determined in our schemes, because the financial adviser is no longer around," said Professor Ian Ramsay, chair of the External Dispute Resolution Review.
Mr Ramsay is chairing an independent panel considering what kind of compensation scheme the Turnbull Government should set-up.
"It's certainly concerning to the panel and that's the very reason why we are conducting this inquiry into whether or not there should be some compensation scheme of last resort for individuals such as those who you have interviewed," he said.
The banking industry has offered to fund a limited scheme that would leave out past victims.
"It would be prospective, in other words look forward not look into the past," Mr Ramsay said.
Another option being strongly considered is already in operation in the United Kingdom.
"It's compulsory industry funded but it also has a cap so in the case of financial advice the cap, in other words the maximum compensation that could be awarded for inappropriate financial advice, would be 50,000 pounds," Mr Ramsay said.
The panel would provide its recommendations to the Government next month.
A statement provided by Peter Spann is below.

Labor's controversial bank tax proposal has passed South Australian Parliament's Lower House after securing the support of former Liberal MP Duncan McFetridge, but remains unlikely to succeed.
The Liberal Opposition had campaigned strongly against the $370 million levy, which the Government wanted to impose on the big banks.
The tax was announced as part of this year's state budget.
Today, the Liberals attempted to remove it from the Budget Measures Bill during a vote in the Lower House.
But that move failed to win the support of Mr McFetridge, who voted against his former colleagues' attempt to block it.
Mr McFetridge quit the Liberal Party earlier this year after failing to win pre-selection for his electorate.
The State Government had the numbers to pass the bill without Mr McFetridge's support, and the development does not alter the tax's long-term prospects.
The levy remains unlikely to get through the Upper House, where several crossbenchers have already indicated their opposition to it.
Government documents have revealed the NSW Planning Assessment Commission (PAC) received secret briefings from global gas giant Santos seeking final approval to develop a massive CSG field in Narrabri, NSW.
A freedom of information request by community group Lock The Gate uncovered meeting notes, corporate presentations and emails associated with a CSG tour attended on June 5 and 6 by three PAC secretariat staff, and five commissioners, including the commission's Chair Lynelle Briggs.
Environmentalists say the documents reveal "an extreme lack of transparency".

They are now questioning whether the commission has acted unfairly towards community groups and breached its own official code of conduct.
Lock The Gate organiser George Wood said the commission had sought out Santos views and received a "a one-sided picture of CSG" and missed the perspectives of farmers and landholders.
"They heard about the minimal environmental impacts that Santos claim that this gas field will have... presenting them with what we believe is a biased and very narrow perspective on the coal seam gas industry in Queensland," she told the ABC.
A spokesperson for the PAC told the ABC the visit was its own initiative.
"The commission undertook the visit independently. The Minister for Planning and the Department of Planning had no role in approving the visit or the agenda for any meetings."
The spokesperson also said as a follow-up to the release of documents, the commission has offered to meet with Lock the Gate to "engage on issues of interest to their organisation".
Santos, the trip organiser, and the NSW Planning Minister have also been approached with questions about the organisation of the trip.
The private "briefing and familiarisation tour" by commissioners involved flights between Santos' Queensland CSG operations and included visits and briefings at gas fields in Roma and an LNG processing plant in Gladstone.
It was organised by commission staff last April, prior to the completion of public submissions on the project, and without knowledge of the Planning Minister who has not yet delegated any determination powers on the project to the commission.

The documents reveal the private communications between the commission and senior Santos executives.
In an email dated April 20, PAC secretariat staffer David Koppers wrote to Santos general manager Peter Mitchley and requested a tour and briefing on behalf of the commission.
Mr Koppers said the commission was "likely to be the determining authority for the Narrabri gas project, once the Department of Planning and Environment have completed their assessment of the project".
At that point in time the project's environmental impact statement was still on public display by the Planning Department, seeking feedback.
On May 1, Santos executive Mr Mitchely wrote back to Mr Koppers saying a "trip is easily arranged".
He then suggests they swap phone numbers and "meet up for a coffee to better understand you [sic] visit objectives".
The ABC has confirmed with Santos that a coffee meeting never happened.
In the next email exchange, on May 10, Mr Koppers sends Mr Mitchley a "draft agenda" for Santos to comment on and asks for "other suggestions to what we are proposing to look at to further aid in the future consideration on the Narrabri project".
Further email exchanges detail behind-the-scenes planning behind the trip with Santos offering to organise dietary-appropriate meals, mini-bus transport and safety boots for all the commissioners.
Approached for comment, a Santos spokesperson told the ABC the company supported the independent role of the commission:
"Santos met with the Planning Assessment Commission after they requested a tour of Santos facilities at Roma and Gladstone to familiarise themselves with the project.
"We also support facilitating visits to facilities to enable impacts to be assessed firsthand, allowing informed decision making in their independent role."
Environmental Defenders Office CEO Sue Higginson said close contact by the commission with a proponent was "arguably controversial in the context of the code of conduct".

She said commissioners were expected "to behave in the utmost transparent manner, an accountable manner, and in a way transparent to the public".
"So taking an initiative to go and find out about a project, with the proponent of the project — it's unheard of really," she said.
The documents also include Mr Koppers minutes of a Santos briefing attended by commission staff.
The commission records facts such as "there have been few complaints about the project in recent years", and that "there have been no cases in the United States or Australia where coal seam gas has contaminated an aquifer".
The documents also reveal presentation slides that state that a clean-up of environmental damage at Santos Bibblewindi exploration site is "progressing well", and a closing 'risk/reward' graphic reminds the commissioners they must "consider any approval conditions carefully".
Ms Higginson said the documents have called into question the independence of PAC, and the Planning Minister must now consider a different approval process, maintaining merit-based appeal rights for the community.
"The Minister could retain the powers under the legislation and make the decision for himself," she said.
"He could require the commission, to not be constituted by the members who took themselves on the venture, or he could instruct PAC to not undertake a review, so there is some fairness built back into the system for the community."
Australia's largest energy supply retailer, AGL, has announced Crib Point on the Mornington Peninsula as its preferred site for a gas import jetty and pipeline.
The company said the move would increase energy security and supply for customers in the south-eastern states of the country.
It is hoped the $250 million plan will be under construction by 2019 and operating by 2021.
The Victorian Government said it was confident the Crib Point project would increase reliability within the state's energy supply and ultimately reduce prices.
It entered into negotiations with AGL late last year about a possible location due to its concerns over increasing energy prices and the prospect of summer blackouts.
The company is now set to discuss the viability of the plan with the Andrews Government and local authorities within the Crib Point area.

In a statement, AGL executive general manager Richard Wrightson said the company still had a significant amount of work to do before construction of the project could go ahead.
"This doesn't signal the end of the feasibility studies for the proposed site but now accelerates the process," he said.
"We look forward to ongoing consultation with the local community to answer their questions and proceed towards a formal application to the Victorian Government."
It is believed the company selected Crib Point due to its existing infrastructure and existing industrial port facility and pipeline network.
The company also noted that it was wary of proposed carbon-restricting legislation.
"As Australia transitions to a carbon-constrained future, AGL is looking at how best to modernise and decarbonise the energy system," a statement from the company noted.
"This project will enable access to the world market for gas, injecting some much-needed competition into the Australian market and help ease the tight gas supply."
Energy Minister Lily D'Ambrosio said the Government would continue to work closely with AGL "as we boost the reliability of our gas supply".
"This project has the potential to be a real game changer for our gas market, allowing the importation of cheaper gas to help drive down energy prices and create jobs," she said in a statement.
Mornington Shire Council has been contacted for comment.
AGL has returned to profit for the 2017 financial year on the back of significant rises in wholesale electricity prices and despite a small fall in customer numbers.
A proposed merger between two of the nation's largest after-school care companies could result in higher fees and lower quality care, the competition watchdog has found.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) has released a negative preliminary report on Camp Australia's bid to buy Junior Adventures Group, which operates OSHClub and Helping Hands centres.
If approved, the merger would result in one in four of the nation's before- and after-school services being run by the same provider.
In Victoria, it would be closer to two in every three.
"I think our main concern is that you have got the two biggest players in the out-of-hours school care market getting together and they will be, combined, by far the largest player, which will dwarf all other players," said ACCC Chairman Rod Sims.
"Our concern is that a loss of competition could see parents having to pay higher prices for out-of-hours school care and could see schools lose a bit of their bargaining position."
He said there were also concerns that a lack of competition could drive standards down.
"The fact they would be such a heavyweight, they could start setting service standards and if you have got such a strong market position, you may seek to lower service standards and raise prices, so we've got concerns on both price and service."
Camp Australia, owned by the United States-based private equity firm Bain Capital, is the country's largest provider of before- and after-school care, with about 780 centres looking after nearly 50,000 Australian schoolchildren.
It wants to take over another 400 centres currently run by Junior Adventures Group, which operates under the names OSHClub and Helping Hands.
Junior Adventures Group is owned by the private equity firm Advent Partners.
The National Outside School Hours Services Association has welcomed the ACCC's preliminary findings.
"For schools, it has shed light on what is actually happening, the foreign takeover of the out-of-school-hours sector and the idea that government-funded subsidies to families will actually be going to foreign investors," chair Robyn Monro Miller said.
"The fact they are owned by an investment company means shareholder profits are going to take precedence over the care and wellbeing of children, and I think that is something we really need to consider as a community.
"Is that what we want for the future of children in childcare services?"
In December last year, Camp Australia was declared ineligible to win or renew any government contracts in New South Wales following a number of breaches.
The NSW Education Department has confirmed that OSHClub and Helping Hands are currently eligible to apply.
Mr Sims said he was aware of concerns that the merger would give Camp Australia a back-door entry to the NSW market.
"The concern about service standard of Camp Australia did feature in our thinking. It was informed by what is going on in NSW but the concern was a bigger one than just using it as a back-door entry point," he said.
A spokesperson for Camp Australia said the organisation was "reviewing the ACCC's announcement".
Junior Adventures Group was also contacted for comment.
The ACCC will release its final report in October.
The South Australian Government has finalised a $1.6 billion deal to privatise the state's Lands Titles Office.
A commercial consortium known as Land Services SA has won the right to manage the state's system of land titles and registry for the next 40 years - including the right to commercialise related data, subject to government approval.
The Lands Titles Office holds the registry of the state's property titles, including information about who owns property, when it was purchased and its valuation.
Land Services SA is comprised of two investors - Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets, and the Public Sector Pension Investment Board.
South Australia is the second state to privatise the functions of its Land Titles Office, following New South Wales, which in April reached a $2.6 billion deal with a consortium made up of First State Super, investment funds from Hastings Funds Management and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group's pension fund.
Critics of the privatisation have previously raised concerns about its privacy implications, and the Public Service Association has warned it could threaten the state's Torrens Title system.
SA Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis said, under the deal, the Government would continue to set fees and charges for title searches and other land services.
He said the general public would not notice any difference to the service following the transfer.
"Land Services SA submitted a binding bid that compares favourably with other land registry transactions, including the recent commercialisation in New South Wales," Mr Koutsantonis told Parliament.
The Treasurer conceded the new operators of the Lands Titles Office would require fewer staff than currently employed, but is expected to make offers of employment to about 70 workers currently performing transactional land services.
He said a further 60 staff would likely be employed in the transition process, while a further 30 would be retained elsewhere in the public service.
Mr Koutsantonis said he expected no forced redundancies.
He said Land Services SA had agreed to establish an "innovation hub" in Adelaide and would make a $35 million ICT investment in South Australia.

The Treasurer used the privatisation announcement to disparage the banking industry, which has run a high-profile advertising campaign against the State Government's proposed Major Bank Levy.
The banks have argued the introduction of the levy would deter investment in South Australia.
"This deal involves debt funding from three of the five major banks which are subject to the South Australian Major Bank Levy," Mr Koutsantonis told Parliament.
"Acts speak louder than advertisements, Mr Speaker, especially those advertisements by the Australian Bankers Association which seek to disparage this state.
"Not only are banks willing to invest in South Australia but they are actually doing so."
Western Australia's housing market is the most oversupplied in the country and it is only going to get worse, a new report on the future of the building market has found.

BIS Oxford Economics is forecasting a national decline in the building market over the next three years, including WA where building starts peaked in 2015/16.
According to the latest BIS report, there are already 25,000 unnecessary homes in the state and that will increase to 26,000 by 2019.
About 70 per cent of these are freestanding homes, as opposed to NSW or Victoria where oversupply is a more serious concern for apartments.
The slowdown in population growth linked to the end of the mining boom has seen the rate of new houses being built contract, but it is not enough to offset the significant oversupply.
"The bottom line is there's excess stock out there. We need to see construction fall well below demand," BIS Oxford Economics managing director Robert Mellor said.
"Underlying demand's probably close to about 19,000 dwellings a year, so current dwelling commencements have yet to fall below what the underlying requirement is, and if you've got an oversupplied market, that basically means you're going to stay in oversupply for some years."
He said without population growth or falls in the number of new homes being built, oversupply would continue, meaning possibly further falls in home prices.
"I think we're pretty close to the bottom of the market — by the end of this year, early next year we'll have come to the end of price declines in the Perth housing market," he said.
"But is it a good time to get in? I wouldn't be getting in yet, I think you could wait another couple of years, certainly another 12 or 18 months."
"Any price growth is probably not going to come before 2019/20, or more into 2020/21, because I don't think there are the economic drivers."
Perth property analyst and licensed valuer Gavin Hegney said as prices drop, a lot of first homebuyers were getting into the market, while household sizes were getting smaller and people were looking for entry-level homes in the western suburbs.
"That tends to mean [a price slump] won't last as long as you think it will, because it will change behaviour as a result of dropped prices," he said.
"All those entry-level homes are up 10-20 per cent, but at the same time investors are in a world of pain because they've had a 30 per cent drop in rents and a 30 per cent increase in interest rates."

He said because a lot of first home buyers believed it was the time to buy, the activity in the lower end of the market was dragging the median price down.
"People think 'oh, values are falling', whereas actually we've got the highest [proportion of] first home buyers percentage-wise in the country, at 22 per cent."
Perth Electrician Zak Plakakis, 21, just made his first foray into the market with a block of land in Alkimos, in Perth's north.
He said while he looked at the market, he decided it was a good time for him to buy.
"To be honest, I just thought I was ready for a house," he said.
"The interest rate's really low at the moment, … and there's not heaps of work out there for builders, so a lot of people are doing things cheap.
"I'm building, so we're getting a lot of really good deals through that."
Mr Hegney said because of the supply of homes, renters should be able to re-negotiate.
"If they haven't had a 30 per cent drop in their rent in the last year or so, then they're probably not taking advantage of the soft rental market," he said.
"They should be churning out of what they're in and … saving extra to buy a property."
But he said there were indications the market was not going to fall forever. Latest figures showed more full time jobs in the state and hours worked, as well as anecdotal evidence of capital raising in the mining sector, indicated the economy may be no longer contracting.
Virgin Australia shares have jumped in response to the airline narrowing its full-year loss and becoming cash flow positive for the first time since 2012.
At 2:00pm (AEST) its share price was up 5.7 per cent to 18.5 cents.
Virgin's statutory loss after tax, attributable to owners of the company, was $220.3 million for 12 months to the end of June.
That represents an improvement on its $260.9 million loss during the same period a year earlier.
Its underlying earnings, which do not take impairment charges and other costs into account, recorded a loss of $3.7 million, compared to a $41 million profit last year.
However, that was much better than the $18 million loss in underlying earnings many analysts were expecting.
Virgin Australia's chief executive John Borghetti said, over the last year, the airline has cracked down on borrowing and focused on minimising its debt.
"We're very pleased to see that the positive trajectory of our cash, our debt and our leverage position continue to improve, and today we've reported the first positive free cash flow result since the 2012 financial year," he said.
The airline is also boasting a 40 per cent improvement to its debt position over the last three years, in slashing borrowings by $839 million.
In presenting the financial results, John Borghetti acknowledged that domestic market conditions had been quite weak.
But he said earnings in the fourth quarter of the financial year were $38.4 million higher than the same period last year, which was an encouraging sign.
He also said activity in the domestic aviation sector was mirroring conditions in the broader economy.
"There have been reports in the media about business confidence versus consumer confidence and how business confidence seems to be running ahead of consumer confidence," Mr Borghetti observed.
"That kind of translates a little bit to what we've seen in the last quarter or so, where business travel seems to have picked up more than leisure travel, and that of course always translates to better yields."
The airline has also upgraded its annual savings target to $350 million from the initial goal of $300 million and said it will start hitting that target by 2019.
The founder of iconic Australian ice-cream brand Weis says its buyout by multi-national Unilever will be the push it needs for its bars to expand globally, while securing local jobs.
The second-generation company has been operating in Toowoomba, west of Brisbane, for six decades, and only agreed to the sale if their ice-creams would continue to be made locally.
Founder Les Weis said he was confident the multi-national could take their products to new markets.
"Val [my wife] has always said to me 'business is like a wheelbarrow, it doesn't go anywhere unless someone pushes it'," he said.

"I think Unilever will give Weis just the push it needs."
Managing director Julie Weis said the takeover, at an undisclosed sum, would provide more opportunities for its 85 staff, suppliers, customers and consumers.
"Unilever demonstrated their understanding of our brand, our products and how important our people and the Toowoomba manufacturing site are in ensuring Weis' success into the future," she said.
The first Weis bar was sold by Les Weis in 1957 at Pop's Milk Bar, opposite the Empire Theatre in Toowoomba.

It started with the Fruito Bar, and the mango and cream bar was introduced two years later. It has been the most popular since.
Weis is joining other iconic Australian brands which are now in foreign hands, including Arnotts, Golden Circle and Bushells.
While already exporting to North America, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and China, Unilever Australia & New Zealand chief executive Clive Stiff said Weis would now experience the next level in its growth both globally and in Australia.
It is promising to give the ice-cream a higher profile in supermarkets and convenience stores.

"Weis is another great Australian success story — a story that will continue with Unilever," he said.
"We know that Weis has been a long-term supporter of the local fruit industry and we look forward to continuing to work with this well-established supplier base."
The terms of the deal were not disclosed.




The boss of power firm AGL says the company is working with its competitors and the Federal Government to find solutions to high power prices, as it makes a return to profit for 2017.
AGL managing director Andy Vesey was among the power firm bosses called to Canberra to front Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull this week.
In a deal brokered by the Government, the energy retailers agreed to keep customers informed about what they pay for electricity.
Mr Vesey said new supply would bring down power prices. He urged the Government to rapidly put in place all 50 recommendations from a major report by Australia's chief scientist Alan Finkel on the energy industry, including a clean energy target.
"Ultimately, until new investment winds up in new supply, we will continue to see this tension between regulatory and government desire to intervene and what the industry will do," he told an analyst briefing.
Mr Vesey said yesterday's meeting was constructive and would be the first of many meetings with governments.
"Until we can make those additional investments to bring wholesale prices down the best we can do is ensure that all consumers have the best information they need to make the best choices in a very competitive market place," he said.
"This is something that will play out in time but I will say I was quite encouraged by the conversation, discussion, both the talking and the listening yesterday."
Mr Vesey said the industry had to do more to help customers in hardship.
"As an industry we are going to rise to this challenge, customers are going to have the information they need," he added.

The energy provider has returned to profit for the 2017 financial year on the back of significant rises in wholesale electricity prices and despite a small fall in customer numbers.

AGL said higher fuel costs and "the disorderly withdrawal" of coal fired generation had pushed up power prices.
AGL will close its Liddell power plant in 2022.
Mr Vesey took a swipe at the sudden closure of the Hazelwood power plant earlier this year.
"The long notice period we have given reflects our commitment to managing carbon risks for shareholders and avoiding the volatility created by recent sudden withdrawal of capacity," he said.
Mr Vesey said replacing the 1,680 megawatts of capacity generated by Liddell would most likely be a combination of solar and wind power.
"Short-term new development will continue to favour renewables supported by gas peaking," he argued.
"Longer term we see this trend continuing with large scale battery deployment enhancing the value of renewable technology.
"In this environment, we just don't see new development of coal as economically rational even before factoring in a carbon cost."
He said AGL was doing a detailed assessment of potential electricity supply up until 2025 for the National Electricity Market.
The power firm made a net profit for 2017 of $539 million compared to a net loss in 2016 of $408 million.

AGL's underlying profit beat analysts' forecasts.
AGL will return $1.1 billion to shareholders from higher dividends and a share buyback.
Investors will get a final dividend payout of $0.50 a share, partially franked, up $0.14 from the same time a year ago.
Total dividend payout for the year stands at $$0.91 a share, up $0.23 cents from 2016.
AGL has more than $2 billion of projects under development.
This includes $250 million to build a planned liquefied natural gas import terminal at Crib Point in Victoria and the $900 million Coopers Gap wind farm in Queensland, 180 kilometres north west of Brisbane.
The company is also expanding its retail power business in Western Australia and has signed up 1000 customers so far.
AGL expects underlying profit after tax for 2018 to come in at between $940 to just over $1 billion.
But Mr Vesey warned that was subject to changes in energy policy by governments.

Australian shares will most likely open lower today, given the weak lead from overseas markets, escalating US-North Korea tensions and flat ASX futures trade.

Several Australian companies will release their financial results today, including AMP, AGL Energy and Virgin Australia.
It will be a quiet day for local economic news.
But across the ditch, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand decided to keep interest rates on hold at 1.75 per cent this morning.
It was a move widely predicted by financial markets and, like Australia's interest rates, New Zealand is expected to remain on hold for the foreseeable future.
Escalating tensions between the US and North Korea have sparked a global equities sell-down.
Major markets in the US, Europe and Asia finished lower overnight.
Investors shifted away from stocks to safe-haven assets such as the Japanese yen and gold.
They are understandably worried after US President Donald Trump sparked a war of words with North Korea, threatening each other with the use of nuclear weapons.
President Trump said on Tuesday that any threats to the United States from Pyongyang would be met with "fire and fury".
This prompted North Korea to respond by saying it was considering plans for a missile strike on the US Pacific territory of Guam.


US Defence Secretary Jim Mattis then issued a stark warning to North Korea, telling Pyongyang that it should stop any actions that would lead to the "end of its regime and the destruction of its people".
The President boasted in an overnight Tweet, "My first order as President was to renovate and modernize our nuclear arsenal. It is now far stronger and more powerful than ever before."
"Hopefully we will never have to use this power, but there will never be a time that we are not the most powerful nation in the world!"
"The increased tension between the US and North Korea is the factor that is keeping markets on edge right now," according to ANZ Bank's Daniel Been.
"But we think that the underlying setup in the market at the moment is as important as the trigger.
"While Korean tensions could fade, the market remains vulnerable to other surprises."
On Wall Street every sector finished in the red, with telecommunications, cyclical goods and services, and basic materials being the worst performers.
Disney stock did not fare very well either — down 3.9 per cent to $US102.83, which is an eight-month low.
Clearly investors did not respond well to Disney's announcement on Wednesday that it would start its own video streaming service and stop providing new movies to Netflix from 2019.
They are concerned that Disney will encounter new hurdles selling directly to consumers.
The company has relatively little experience with selling subscriptions, although it does operate a digital service in Britain called DisneyLife.
It will also have to invest in technology. As part of the plan announced on Tuesday, Disney said it would spend $1.58 billion to acquire majority ownership of BAMTech, the company that streams professional US baseball and will provide the tech powering the new streaming services.
Dodgy new car retailers who mislead consumers about guarantees, warranties and fuel consumption promises have been put on notice by Australia's competition watchdog.
In a draft report, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) found many manufacturers have failed to ensure that basic consumer guarantee rights are factored into their complaints handling systems and that some new buyers are losing out to shady practices.
The ACCC said complaints about new car manufacturers and retailers have risen to more than 10,000 over the past two years, highlighting widespread consumer issues in the industry.
ACCC chairman Rod Sims told the ABC's AM program that manufacturers and dealers who mislead consumers about their rights for repairs, refunds and replacements are about to face more heat.
"We think consumers are getting a pretty bad deal with new cars, they're not getting their consumer guarantees which means they don't get all their rights in terms of replacements or refunds ," Mr Sims said.
"There's a whole lot of historical behaviour that needs to change considerably. I think we've got to drag the new car industry into the current century.
"They've got to understand that consumers do have guarantee rights."
In one case cited in the report, a female buyer with transmission problems was told by a Ford dealer she should "drive more like a man" after her attempts to have a known problem fixed.
"That's extraordinary and it reflects a range of social attitudes that's for sure. To say that to someone shows a fair bit of disdain for the customer," Mr Sims said.
So far this year the ACCC has taken action against a number of manufacturers including Ford, Holden, Volkswagen and Audi.
The Australian Consumer Law (ACL) is national fair trading legislation which provides protections in the event of a problem with a good or service including new cars.

According to the ACCC, the ACL goes above and beyond many manufacturers' warranties to guarantee consumer rights if a new car is defective or does not perform as promised.
However, in a bid to clarify the law, the ACCC is recommending that if a good fails to meet expectations within a short time the consumer is entitled to a refund or replacement without have to prover there has been a "major failure".
Mr Sims said he supported recommendations to toughen the consumer law to address uncertainties and potential breaches about consumer rights when dealing with the new car industry.
"These proposed changes would entitle consumers to get a refund or a replacement within a set period of time if a new car doesn't work," Mr Sims said.
"They would also clarify that multiple non-major failures can amount to a major failure."
The report also found a "dominant culture of repair" in car manufacturing systems and policies for dealing with car defects and outright failures.
In addition, it pointed to the widespread use of non-disclosure agreements by car manufacturers designed to silence consumers who have complaints resolved.
Consumers are also not receiving accurate information about fuel consumption or emissions performance from new cars, the ACCC has found.
"Fuel consumption and emissions are often major purchasing factors for buyers when choosing their car," Mr Sims said.
"We're concerned that what new buyers are told their car will achieve is very different from practice."
Mr Sims warned car manufacturers and dealers to ensure that representations to consumers about consumption and emissions are accurate and has recommend "realistic" laboratory tests so people know what they are buying.
The ACCC has identified problems with the timeliness of technical information being passed onto independent repairers from new car manufacturers and retailers.
Car manufacturers provided a voluntary commitment in 2014 to provide independent repairers with the same information given to authorised dealers.
"This lack of competition hurts new car buyers who have fewer options to get the best deal for repairs and servicing," Mr Sims said.
The ACCC is seeking comments on the draft report by next month and expects to have final recommendations by the end of the year.

Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.
Australia's economy holds the world record for the longest recession-free run thanks, in large part, to a record home-building boom that offset the pain of the mining bust.
But that boom is already past its peak and there is much worse to come, according to the latest Building in Australia forecast from BIS Oxford Economics.
"We won't see it impact significantly over the next six months," said the economic forecasting firm's managing director, Robert Mellor.
"But as we move into 2018, particularly as those big high-rise apartment projects come off — commencements have been falling for nearly 12 months in Brisbane and they'll start falling in Sydney and Melbourne — 12 months down the track, the level of work being undertaken will decline significantly."
BIS Oxford is forecasting the number of dwelling starts will decline from a peak above 230,000 to a trough around 160,000 within three years — a 31 per cent slump.

The news is far worse in the high-rise apartment sector, which is predicted to face a 50 per cent collapse nationally, with falls in new building of up to 70 per cent in Brisbane and 60 per cent in Melbourne.
The steep declines are a direct result of the record construction boom, which has wiped out housing undersupply nationally, leaving only pockets of shortage in Sydney and Melbourne.
"The underlying level of demand for dwellings, based on population growth [and] the level of household formation, is probably about 184,000 dwellings per annum," he observed.
"So we're basically overbuilding in a long-term sense."

That means that Australia also faces a serious oversupply of construction workers, with the mining boom gone and the residential building boom set to fade fast.
Mr Mellor said tens of thousands could find themselves unemployed.

"If you're seeing a decline in the order of the peak of 230,000-plus dwellings to a trough somewhere between 160-170,000 dwelling commencements that's a pretty significant decline in the required level of employment," he warned.
Mr Mellor has been forecasting in the construction sector for nearly four decades and said the booms have often been bigger than expected and the busts also more severe.
He said the downside risk to BIS Oxford's forecast is the danger of a downward spiral that this decline in employment could trigger through increased mortgage defaults, falling home prices and further cuts to development plans.
Another risk is the reliance on investors to underwrite the current apartment boom.
"Overseas investors are now facing significantly higher taxes as well as maybe there's still restrictions upon funds being able to come into the country from overseas, or overseas investors being able to get local funds," he said.
"Coupled with that, you've got local investors finding it harder and paying significantly higher interest rates, particularly for interest-only loans.
"That's going to be a key driver, where developers find it hard to get projects off the plan and you will see a substantial correction in construction."

Other forecasters are not quite as pessimistic, such as Riki Polygenis, National Australia Bank's head of Australian economics.
"Residential construction will be adding to growth through 2017 and the first half of 2018 before it does start to turn down," she said.
"We are expecting a gradual ramp-up in non-residential construction and infrastructure spending."
Mr Mellor agreed that there will probably be gains in office building and new infrastructure, especially in Sydney.

However, as with NAB, he said it will not be enough to offset the steep fall in the much bigger residential sector.
"That will start to impact in a negative way and keep economic growth more in the 2.5 per cent range," he predicted.
NAB has a similar economic outlook, predicting GDP growth of 2.5-2.75 per cent until 2019, meaning that interest rates are also likely to remain steady until then.

"The RBA will still be wary of choking off the gradual recovery we're seeing through the non-mining economy, and they'd also prefer a lower currency," she said.
"So rate hikes are still some way off and we don't actually have them pencilled in until 2019, with some chance of it being a bit earlier in the back half of 2018."
With a more pessimistic outlook for residential construction, Mr Mellor thinks the Reserve Bank will sit on its hands even longer, leaving rates on hold until 2020.
Travel agency Flight Centre has accidentally taken $800 from the bank account of one of its information leak victims and is refusing to pay for missed work hours the woman says she spent getting new passports.
Sydney psychiatrist Yvonne Skarbek said it took more than eight hours over several days to apply for new passports for herself, her husband and her daughter, after Flight Centre mistakenly released hundreds of customers' passport details to "third party suppliers" as a result of "human error" last month.
In emails obtained by the ABC, a Flight Centre employee told Dr Skarbek on Tuesday that instead of reimbursing her $800 for the cost of new passports, it had instead removed the money from her account.
Flight Centre apologised to Dr Skarbek for the "regrettable financing error", but said the money would not be returned for two days.
"The payments have unfortunately been processed by the bank as debits rather than credits," the Flight Centre email reads.
Dr Skarbek said it was a serious breach of privacy.
"I think it's appalling — they've been aggressive and they've done everything they can to obstruct me from getting my compensation claim," Dr Skarbek said.
In an earlier email in mid-July, Flight Centre told Dr Skarbek that the travel agency would consider paying her for a day's work to attend an Australia Post office for passport appointments for her family.
But subsequent emails showed when Dr Skarbek told Flight Centre she was a psychiatrist who charged $400 for a 45-minute consultation, the travel agent said it would be "looking into her income claim further".
"This amount of time does seem excessive — can you please explain why you maintain a claim for 8.5 hours?" the response from Flight Centre read.
In a second email, the same employee again questioned Dr Skarbek for maintaining her claim for eight-and-a-half hours of missed work.
"We are perplexed as to why you were required to take an entire morning away from work on two occasions," the Flight Centre employee said.
"The appointment times seem appropriate and could have been absorbed into an extended lunch break."
Dr Skarbek said she was shocked at the conduct of Flight Centre and would be taking the matter to the Privacy Commissioner.
"It's my right to hold a passport and I have a right to fly at anytime I choose and I may well be flying in the next few months," Dr Skarbek said.
The Flight Centre employee also told Dr Skarbek that while the travel agency took responsibility for the information leak, a new passport was not vital and Dr Skarbek's "inconvenience on this basis was purely voluntary".
After the banking error, the company offered Dr Skarbek a $200 gift card to spend at the travel agency.
"I'm probably not going to use it," she said.
Flight Centre has been contacted for comment.
A Brisbane supermarket worker who says he felt forced to skimp on safety to lift 2,100 heavy cartons a day has been awarded compensation for an ongoing injury in a landmark Court of Appeal case in Brisbane.
Supermarket giant Woolworths has been ordered to pay its former picker Berhane Ghebreigziabiher Berhane $231,211.45, after an appeal judge found Woolworths' demands on its Queensland distribution centre workers breached safety laws and aggravated the onset of a shoulder injury.
Mr Berhane's legal team Shine Lawyers said the successful appeal followed a 2013 court battle where their client failed to prove his injury was the supermarket giant's fault.
Shine Lawyers said the case had been closely watched in the supermarket industry and would set a precedent for workers who were injured on the job.
Mr Berhane, who is a migrant from Africa, was one of more than 90 workers at Woolworths' regional distribution centre at Larapinta, south of Brisbane, in 2010 who were sent home if they did not meet performance targets, which could involve lifting up to 2,160 cartons a day.
The 54-year-old worked in a chiller room where the temperature dropped to below zero and he was given one 10-minute and one 30-minute break during an eight-hour shift.
Court of Appeal Justice Phillip Morrison said boxes of fruit and vegetables that workers had to lift weighed between 13 and 16 kilograms.
"The system of work involved frequent lifting away from the body of weights in excess of recommendations of the Worksafe Victoria Guide to Manual Order Picking," he said.
"Because of Mr Berhane's concern about the system and his job security, it was likely he took shortcuts such as leaning across a pallet rather than walking around it, or carrying more than one item."
Less than a year after starting at the Larapinta distribution centre, Mr Berhane was diagnosed with subacromial bursitis and impingement of the left shoulder, which his doctor found was caused by constant heavy lifting.
But the court was told Mr Berhane already had a shoulder condition when he started the job and would not have been injured were it not for that condition.
He now suffers from ongoing pain.

Shine Lawyers general manager Peter Gibson said their client's case was fought tooth and nail.
"A negligent work system encouraged employees to work harder and faster — where some were frequently sent home if their rating was less than the others," he said.
"It has confirmed a key point of law which clarifies an employer's duty to protect their employees, particularly when repetitive, high-intensity work is involved."
The court heard Woolworths contracted an independent company to determine how many boxes could be lifted in a day.
During the day a manager would have to decide if there was enough work for all the employees and those who were lifting the least cartons would be sent home first.
Justice Morrison said Woolworths trained workers in how to lift boxes safely but it was not enforced on shift.
"The training and induction program was comprehensive, and an adequate response to the risk of musculoskeletal injury, but only in theory," he said.
"The failure to properly implement the system was a breach of duty."
When questioned by the ABC about its current safety procedures, a spokeswoman for Woolworths said it was still reviewing the court's decision.
"The safety of our team members is critically important and we remain committed to providing a safe workplace," the spokeswoman said.
"We achieve this through training and a range of policies and processes to improve workplace safety standards — we are continuously looking to how we can improve our performance."
Woolworths was also ordered to pay Mr Berhane's court costs.
Canadian mining giant First Quantum Minerals has announced it will mothball its Ravensthorpe nickel operations in WA's south-east from early next month because of low nickel prices.
The Toronto-based company employs about 270 people at the Ravensthorpe mine and the closure will hit the community hard only months after devastating floods ripped through the region.
First Quantum said it would cost about $10 million to enter care and maintenance, which should be in effect by early October.
The annual bill of maintaining the site is estimated at $5 million.
In a statement, First Quantum's chief executive Philip Pascall described the decision as "disappointing".
"Ravensthorpe is an excellent operation with an outstanding workforce and supportive community but the continuing depressed nickel market conditions, over some years, leaves us no option," he said.
"Over the next few weeks we will work closely with our employees and key contractors to mitigate the impact and manage carefully the staged shutdown of operations.
"We will be offering assistance to employees in seeking further employment opportunities."
However, there is some hope for the mine, with First Quantum saying it would continue to progress the permitting process at the Shoemaker Levy orebody, along with regular review of the market conditions for a potential restart of operations.
To restart operations, should favourable conditions prevail, is estimated at $10 million.
The closure comes just weeks after First Quantum posted back-to-back quarterly losses.
The company reported a $US18 million loss for the June quarter, following a $US29 million loss in the March quarter.
The miner also revealed Ravensthorpe - at current metal prices - is making a loss of more than a dollar on every pound of nickel it produces.
Ravensthorpe produced 11,512 tonnes of nickel at an all-in sustaining cost of $US5.70 per pound for the six months to June 30.
Global miner BHP spent about $US3 billion building and commissioning the facility in late 2008, before the global financial crisis forced its closure only months later.
First Quantum bought the mine for $US340 million in 2010 and restarted operations in 2011.
There has long been speculation about the future of Ravensthorpe, one of only two nickel laterite mines operating in WA, alongside Glencore's Murrin Murrin mine near Laverton.
First Quantum produced 23,624 tonnes of nickel last year, most of which came from Ravensthorpe following the $US712 million sale of the Kevitsa mine in Finland.
The State Government said it would seek to assist those who will be laid off, with Mines and Petroleum Minister Bill Johnston saying he had been directed to launch a taskforce to help find those workers employment elsewhere within the industry.
"The Government will see whether we can work with these displaced employees to see whether they can get positions in expansion projects in the gold and lithium sector," Mr Johnston said.
He admitted other nickel mines in WA were "under pressure" as a result of tough market conditions but expressed confidence the futures of the largest of those are secure.
Mr Johnston was hopeful the Ravensthorpe mine would operate again.
"They are hopeful the mine will come back into production within two or three years because they believe the nickel market will come back," he said.
Premier Mark McGowan said he had a "great deal of sympathy" for the impacted workers and said as much support as possible would be offered.
The final member of a group of gold thieves has pleaded guilty to stealing 1.15kg of the metal he stumbled across during an outback barbecue.
Glen Stephen Rutherford was hit with a $5,000 fine by Kalgoorlie Magistrate Sandra De Maio, after he admitted his role in the bizarre theft.
Rutherford was returning from an unsuccessful prospecting trip on June 4 last year, when he stopped for a barbecue on the outskirts of Kunanalling, a ghost town 32km north of Coolgardie.
Along with Andrew Mark Warren, Stephen Lindsay Rowe and Michael James Forward, who pleaded guilty to the theft earlier this year, Rutherford descended into a nearby mining pit to fossick for gold.
Police prosecutor Carol Peterson told the court it was Rutherford who then stumbled on a large gold specimen protruding from the ground.
The foursome managed to illegally remove $62,392 of gold, more than a kilogram, before an ill-advised Facebook post boasting of gold for sale drew the attention of the WA Police Gold Stealing Detection Unit.
The court also heard Rutherford was the only member of the group to sell his share of the stolen gold, offloading it to a Kalgoorlie prospecting business for $13,175.
But Rutherford's lawyer Carmel McKenzie said the manner of the attempted sale, with Rutherford leaving his name and full contact details with the business, indicated his lack of criminal intent.
"There was no subterfuge, no attempt to do anything discretely," Ms McKenzie told the court.
She said her client had little to no interest in mining, failing to recognise the nugget as gold when he stumbled across it.
"They cleaned it up with a toothbrush and water, before dividing it amongst themselves," Ms McKenzie said.
"Although he was the one who found the gold, he wasn't the lead when it came to prospecting."
While Rutherford initially looked to contest the charge, Ms McKenzie said he had opted to plead guilty after receiving legal advice.

Handing down Rutherford's $5,000 fine, Ms De Maio said she accepted the 37-year-old had largely learned his lesson.
But she said the rules governing mining leases were particularly strict for good reason.
"The gold industry is particularly vulnerable to abuse and gold is a scarce commodity," Ms De Maio said.
"You can't just walk out, grab some gold and have away with it."
The recovered gold has been claimed by the State Government, after tenement holder Evolution Mining declined to contest the forfeiture order.
While the men were officially charged with defrauding Evolution by stealing the gold, prosecutors argued that because the gold had not been mined before it was stolen, it remained the property of the people of Western Australia.
The Ipswich City Council's mismanagement of a multi-million-dollar contract led to the financial detriment of a local concreting company, Queensland's ombudsman has found.
Robert and Jackie Sellars lost the opportunity for millions of dollars of work when they were deleted from council's database after being the main supplier for 16 years.
The ombudsman's report has been tabled in Queensland Parliament this week by independent MP Rob Pyne.
The report, which was released in February 2017, raised a number of issues within the Ipswich council's management of a contract known as '046', which ultimately led to the Sellars not being considered for work.
Ombudsman Phil Clarke was of the opinion the critical issues between council and the company were linked to poor probity and evaluation practices.
The investigation considered the council's lack of action relating to a licensing issue with the company.
"I considered that council had numerous opportunities to resolve the licensing issue, but did not," Mr Clarke wrote.
The Sellars have been fighting for answers for five years, first raising allegations of maladministration with the Crime and Corruption Commission (CCC) in 2012.
The council was asked to internally investigate whether the Sellars had lost work because they demanded payment for concreting former council CEO Carl Wulff's driveway in August 2007.
The review found no evidence of that, which the CCC accepted.
In 2013, Mr Wulff resigned amid an investigation into official misconduct, relating to an apartment he owned at Hamilton Harbour in Brisbane.
A year later, Mr Wulff was cleared of any wrongdoing.
The ombudsman was satisfied the council had removed Sellars Construction from its database, without notification.
"Removing Sellars Construction from the BTS spreadsheet was akin to terminating its contract and was done without complying with the provisions," Mr Clarke wrote.
The report also said the council had assured the company on numerous occasions that "work would come".
"Council's mismanagement of contract 046, caused Sellars Construction to lose work opportunity which, in turn, contributed to financial detriment," Mr Clarke said in the report.
Sellars Construction went into liquidation in February 2012.
The ombudsman listed a number of recommendations, including council issue a written apology and negotiate a settlement.
In the council's response to the proposed report, it had not agreed with the recommendations, but in a statement to the ABC said it continued to be in discussions with Sellars over the four recommendations.
The Sellars were unable to comment due to the ongoing discussions, but Jackie Sellars had previously stated council should not be left in charge of investigating itself.
"We've tried for so long now to get to the bottom of why our company was shafted from our contracts," Ms Sellars told the ABC in 2014.
"It's not just all about our company — there's a lot of different contractors and developers in the city.
"I think somebody has to make the council accountable."
Victoria's troubled regional rail operator has a $535 million maintenance backlog and has consistently failed to meet targets, the auditor-general has found.
Patronage on trains and buses run by V/Line has grown by almost 90 per cent over the last decade to 17.7 million passengers in 2015/16, leaving commuters facing delays, cancellations and overcrowding.
"V/Line's performance over the past 10 years has mostly fallen short of its targets and community expectations, despite infrastructure improvements and timetable changes," the report said.
The auditor-general found some rolling stock had been on the rails for 60 years, which was double its design life.
"The scale of funding required to address the maintenance backlog is significant - approximately $534.8 million across the entire V/Line network," the report said.
Between July 2013 and March 2017, V/Line did not meet performance standards 47 per cent of the time.
The auditor-general criticised V/Line for measuring reliability and punctuality against the daily schedule, rather than the master timetable.
On average, the report found seats ran out on more than half of peak services on the Geelong line in the nine months to March.
In early 2016 V/Line was forced to replace 350 trains with buses for weeks at a cost of $300,000 per day because of problems with excessive wheel wear on VLocity trains and their failure to activate boom gates in time at a Dandenong level crossing.
The disruption resulted in the loss of 600,000 passengers that financial year and cost up to $2 million a week in lost fare revenue as a result of the Government's offer of free travel.
"V/Line has not successfully dealt with the challenges it has faced over the past decade," the report said.
"However, it has recently started to turn this situation around and is now better informed about the risks and challenges facing its operations.
"V/Line was not prepared for the strong growth in patronage and the resulting increase in service demand following the opening of the RRL [Regional Rail Link], which fundamentally changed the nature of its operations."
The report said senior executive staff met weekly in a "visualisation room" to discuss V/Line's performance and problems.
The auditor-general recommended V/Line strengthen monitoring processes to make sure trains run on time and improve its system for analysing whether it was meeting performance benchmarks.
Despite being targeted with higher mortgage rates, investors appear to be more resilient than owner-occupiers to regulatory attempts to de-risk the property market.

The latest batch of Australian Bureau of Statistics home loan figures show, on a seasonally adjusted basis, investor loans grew by 1.6 per cent in June, while owner-occupier loans edged up just 0.3 per cent.
The investor activity more than claws back the 1 per cent fall in May and covers the period of the first round of out-of-cycle rate rises imposed in late April.
Citi chief economist Paul Brennan said APRA would not necessarily be too concerned by the investor rebound, yet.
"On a yearly basis, investor credit is up by a moderate 5.7 per cent. This is down from the local peak of 27 per cent in January," Mr Brennan noted.
APRA has been tightening the macroprudential screws on banks, firstly by placing a 10 per cent speed limit on annualised investor loan growth and then, in March, demanding banks restrict interest-only loans to 30 per cent of new mortgages.
Interest-only loans — the preferred instrument for the negative gearing set — had been running closer to 40 per cent of all new loans through last year.

ANZ's David Plank said a marked acceleration of investor financing would be a disturbing development for APRA and the RBA.
"This is the biggest increase in investor financing since January," Mr Plank noted.
"It follows a period of reasonably steep monthly falls since then, however, so it's too early to conclude it is the start of a material recovery in investor lending."
Mr Brennan said the weaker-than-expected owner-occupier result was due to a small drop in the purchase of established homes and from refinancing of existing dwellings.
However, there was a pick-up in financing for new construction, up 3.6 per cent, and buying a new home, up 3.5 per cent, driven by Victoria and Queensland.
"The ongoing growth in the value of housing finance for construction and new dwellings suggests there could be a recovery in building approvals coming after a period of weakness," Mr Plank said.
The other area of strength was the beaten-down first home buyer segment re-entering the market, up 9.5 per cent over the month, pushing up their share of the market up 1 percentage point to 15 per cent.

The Federal Government has brokered a deal with energy retailers to tell customers more about what they pay for power.

Eight electricity company bosses met Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, Treasurer Scott Morrison and Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg in Canberra this morning.
Under the changes, retailers would write to customers when they reached the end of a discounted plan and detail how much more they could expect to pay based on their standard consumption.
The information, provided "in plain English", would also refer customers to a comparative website to search for a better deal.
Mr Turnbull said the changes were a short-term measure to address a large problem, but would have an immediate impact.
"This will ensure that Australian families, thousands of Australian families — hopefully millions of Australians — better informed, will then be paying less for their electricity," he said.
Mr Frydenberg said customers on hardship programmes would no longer lose their benefit or discount for late payments.
"That is going to help thousands of Australian families," he said.
"It is a significant set of reforms."
Retailers will also provide "clear, user-friendly" fact sheets on terms, late-payment penalties and termination payments.
The companies involved service eight million households and businesses, with about one million people currently on more expensive "standing offer" plans.
The retailers will report back on August 18, with a subsequent meeting later in the month.
Earlier, Mr Turnbull accused retailers of gouging customers by quietly shifting them to higher-priced plans.
A report by the Energy Markets Commission found consumers were paying significantly more than they need to, partly because they don't get the information they need.
The energy regulator found households could make big savings if they were prepared to switch provider or change contracts.
It said there would be savings of up to $900 a year for Queenslanders, $1,400 for people in New South Wales and $1,500 for South Australians if they switched from the worst offer available to the best.
Ahead of the meeting, Mr Turnbull threatened the Government could use regulation to force companies to do more.
Greens MP Adam Bandt argued re-regulation was the best way to drive down prices.
Mr Bandt dismissed the effectiveness of trying to talk to the companies at a meeting.
"Simply jawboning the retailers won't help," he said.
"States and territories, where regulation of prices is still in place, generally have lower prices.
"It is time Malcolm Turnbull put the rest of the states on notice that they need to act and that if they won't, he will."
Mr Bandt said deregulating electricity prices had failed.
"It is time the Government stepped in and capped electricity prices," he said.
"The role of Government is to act in the best interests of the people and it's time to admit that competition has failed to deliver electricity that is cheap and clean."
Some Victorians are refusing to turn on their heating, scrimping on food and taking showers at local charities to save money on soaring power bills, according to a disturbing new report.

The joint Victorian Council of Social Service (VCOSS) and RMIT study interviewed people experiencing so-called "energy poverty", who had to resort to extreme measures to keep connected to basic utilities.
VCOSS chief executive officer Emma King said the report revealed "depression-era" living standards for some Australians.
She said while the national debate had become bogged down in numbers, behind them were "people suffering while they struggle to pay their power bills".
"When we've got a 114 per cent increase in the cost of energy over the last decade, that's a really serious scenario that households are finding themselves in," Ms King said.
"Our study has found that people are living in abject poverty so they can pay for essential services … and making heartbreaking decisions to go without.
"They've got to make a choice between, do they put the heating on or do they eat for the day? Do they buy books for their children or do they have their gas on?"

The report made 13 recommendations, including the creation of an independent energy broker to help consumers find the best deal.
The report included personal accounts detailing the extent people were going to in order to remain connected to power, including:
Ms King said retailers were not delivering the best deals to consumers.
"We've had really outrageous examples of where people have had their energy bills [increased by] around $700 and a couple of calls from their friend has helped them to halve that bill," Ms King said.
"It's not that hard to make energy deals comparable in a way that almost any other good or service is at the moment."

She said people were freezing through winter because they wanted to stay connected to power, putting their health at serious risk.
"Tens of thousands of Australians are struggling in this regard," Ms King said.
"Not only are the numbers of people who are disconnected rising, these people in our report fly under the radar because they stay connected.
"Housing prices are absolutely escalating along with power prices; it is a perfect storm and we're seeing everyday people paying the price."
The chief executive of Single Mothers and their Children, Jenny Davidson, said a third of single-mother families in Australia were living in poverty and making "tough decisions" to stay connected.
"If you can't afford the heating, it's better to have your kids cold than hungry — but who wants to make that choice?" she said.

Father-of-two Mark Brewer, of Ascot Vale in Melbourne's north-west, said he lived with the constant worry about how to make ends meet in the face of high power bills.
"It's very hard at the moment, when my children get home from school and they want to put the heater on and I tell them, 'no, just put a jacket on, rug up a bit more'," he said.
"Every cent counts ... if it [the cost of power] goes up any more, what am I going to do next? We're at our wit's end.
"Why do our families have to suffer? It makes us feel like we're living in the third world."
Mr Brewer said he varied what he ate depending on how long foods took to cook, such as cutting up potatoes smaller "so they cook quicker".
Friends visiting his teenage daughters are also urged not to charge their mobile phones in his home, and he tells his daughters to have shorter showers to save on hot water.
"In summer, I say to the girls after swimming, 'Make sure you have a shower [at the pool] so they don't have to have a shower here,'" Mr Brewer said.
"I know a lot of elderly people who go to bed early because they don't want to run their heating, so it's very hard.
"How come we have to live like this? We're in a great country so why is this happening?"
He said he was pleased Mr Turnbull had told power companies to ensure households were not overcharged for electricity and gas, but said he had hoped price caps would be applied for low-income earners.
"Australia [is] a blessed country but we've sold everything out. Overseas companies have come in, privatisation — it's out of hand," he said.
ANZ has rejected a media report claiming it too had been used to launder criminal funds, saying it was not aware of any investigations by the financial intelligence agency AUSTRAC into its operations.
"AUSTRAC reviewed ANZ's ATMs and Intelligent Deposit Machines [IDMs] in late 2015 and advised ANZ in February 2017 that it found no evidence of non-compliance with anti-money laundering regulation," ANZ said in a statement.
The use of IDMs by criminal gangs to wash drug profits is central to AUSTRAC's action against the Commonwealth Bank.
The Australian Financial Review reported ANZ and Westpac — while not named in AUSTRAC's statement of claim against the CBA — were also used to wash criminal funds.
"ANZ has systems in place to ensure it complies with anti-money laundering obligations, including processes to monitor and report suspicious activity," ANZ said responding to the AFR report.
"We are also subject to continuous supervision from AUSTRAC and have no outstanding requirements."
ANZ said it completed a thorough risk assessment prior to the introduction of Smart ATMs in 2013 and limited the maximum deposit to $5,000. CBA IDMs allow for deposits of up to $20,000.

One senior bank executive said it was frustrating that CBA appeared to let the criminals' cash enter the system and was now attempting to spread the blame to other banks.
Banks are prohibited by law from publicly identifying any transactions they regard as suspicious or referred to AUSTRAC.
"We understand our role in keeping the Australian financial system safe," ANZ chief risk officer Nigel Williams said.
"We have systems in place, including training for every staff member, to ensure we comply with our anti-money laundering and counter terrorism financing obligations.
"We strongly support AUSTRAC's role in disrupting serious financial crime and will continue to meet our obligations to monitor and report suspicious activity to AUSTRAC and the Australian Federal Police."
Bellamy's share price has jumped by around 10 per cent after Chinese authorities lifted a ban on a canning facility recently bought by the company.
In early July, Bellamy's recently-acquired cannery in Victoria, Camperdown Powder, had its export licence suspended by the CNCA (Certification Accreditation Administration of the People's Republic of China).
Bellamy's owns a 90 per cent stake in the Camperdown facility.
The embattled infant formula maker said it responded to all requests made by the CNCA, with some help from Australian officials, and that the regulator has now accepted to those responses.
"We are pleased that Camperdown's suspended registration has today been lifted," said Bellamy's CEO Andrew Cohen.
"Bellamy's appreciates the important role that the CNCA has in protecting Chinese consumers and the support of the Australia trade officials in assisting us throughout this process."
On July 11, Bellamy's placed its shares in voluntary suspension on July 11.
At the time, the company said it "understands that the enquired raised by the CNCA were as a result of allegations received by CNCA from a third-party complainant relating to historical filing and records and to certain previous quality issues relating to Camperdown's processing facility".
"None of the enquiries raised by the CNCA relate to microbiological or contamination issues or Camperdown's recent change of ownership".
The company's lifted the suspension on share trading nine days later.
Bellamy's shares surged by around 10 per cent today to $8.73 at midday (AEST) — which is an eight-month high.
Since then, the initial excitement of investors has faded considerably.
The company's share price has eased to $8.20 — a gain of 4.06pc at 1.55pm (AEST).
Bellamy's is scheduled to report its full-year results on August 25.
It starts with a phone call.
"That can be prior to someone's passing, or it could be after they've died," Asha Dooley, general manager at Grace Funerals, says.
The bereaved communicate their wishes during this first phone call, and sometimes also meet with the funeral director.
And then the nuanced logistical exercise of planning a funeral gets underway.
Different cultures and religions do, of course, mark funerals and the deaths of a loved ones in a variety of ways.
But most of us think of funeral directors in one of two ways: the stiff-suited mortician (solemn, overwhelmingly male) and the Atwoodian gleam of the White Lady set (mute, exclusively female).
Neither image quite fits Ms Dooley — a young, focused ex-hotelier, who previously trained as a team leader in Qatari resorts.
"Basically, running a funeral is like planning a wedding," she says.
"Only you have three days to do it."
Grace Funerals is a "full service" option, meaning it oversees every part of the funeral production process: from bodily transport to providing programs for a service.

Its offices reflect that jack-of-all-trades ethos — tucked between a day spa and a day care, they house a chapel, a mortuary, planning rooms and a hearse.
The need to provide a timely outlet for bereavement means that, for Ms Dooley and her colleagues, most planning is done prior to being contacted.
"We've got a lot of different venue options and different ideas already available," she says.
"We work quickly … we can do whatever we need to in a short period of time.
"My motto is to never say never — unless it's illegal."
Grace Funerals employs four full-time staff and a number of casuals. Ms Dooley won't talk about the number of funerals she's involved with.
"We're a small to medium enterprise — probably more on the small side," she says.

Grace Funerals used to be the norm for the Australian funeral industry: an independent, family-run funeral home.
Currently, 37 per cent of the Australian death care market is serviced by InvoCare, the conglomerate behind brands such as Simplicity, Guardian and White Lady Funerals.
A glance at InvoCare's annual reports provides an idea of their scale: 1,566 equivalent employees, 225 funeral homes and 16 cemeteries and crematoria in 2016.
In metropolitan regions along Australia's eastern seaboard, where burial space is at a premium, their business has been likened to the supermarket duopoly.
"If they don't get you at the funeral, they'll get you at the cemetery gates," one funeral operator told The Australian in 2011.
All annual reports are necessarily written in some form of bureaucratese, but InvoCare's strike an especially odd chord: that Australia experienced only a "modest" increase in annual deaths is greeted almost mournfully.
A "reduction in case volume" (i.e., dead human bodies processed by InvoCare) was offset by "targeting higher value memorialisation opportunities".
Coffin manufacturers joke that their industry is recession-proof. But it isn't immune to fashion.
"The main trend we're seeing in Australia is that there are far more cremations than burials," Ms Dooley says.

It is perhaps unsurprising that as we run out of burial space, prohibitive real estate prices haunt Australians, even after death.
Australians are also personalising their funerals — which, to a society that grappled with the charge of being "death-denying" throughout the 1970s, is no small change.
"We'd prefer not to have a cookie-cutter approach. We'd rather do a funeral that's individual for you," Ms Dooley says.
Her clients are increasingly interested in specialised music, outdoor funerals and varied orders of service.
Ms Dooley works with caskets of imported mahogany, eco-friendly coffins lined with biodegradable plastic and even natural burials — where a coffin isn't used.
"We haven't done a lot of natural burials," she says.
"But a burial site near us offer them, and we would be more happy to do that."
Despite being in constant contact with death and the recently bereaved, Ms Dooley doesn't find her work emotionally taxing.
"I find it quite rewarding. We get to meet families," she says.

"I guess it is a challenge to make sure every family feels like they are the only family we're looking after."
There are, of course, certain occasions that are trying.
"When there are children involved, that can be difficult," Ms Dooley says.
The Australian Funeral Directors Association has a Frequently Asked Questions section on its website concerned with grief.

According to it, grief is: normal, highly individual, able to cause physical sensations, and prone to last two to five years under normal circumstances.
Ms Dooley, who is a member of the AFDA, cites studies that show ritual is important in letting go.
"I'm a really big advocate for funerals — not because I run funerals but because I think it's much better for our grief long term," she says.
Does Ms Dooley plan her own funeral?
"Almost daily," she admits.
Ideally, she says, it would be outdoors, in the evening, overlooking the water somewhere, with champagne on arrival.
"I don't want anything stiff or boring … I want everyone to have a nice old time."
The pessimists have outnumbered optimists for the ninth consecutive month.
Consumer sentiment fell by 1.2 per cent, from 96.6 to 95.5, according to the Westpac-Melbourne Institute's closely-watched monthly survey of consumer confidence.
A result below 100 means there are more pessimistic consumers than optimistic ones.
This marks the fourth drop in sentiment over the last five months.
Westpac noted that there were some positive economic developments leading up to August.
These included lower petrol prices (down 15c/litre nationally), a surge in the Australian dollar (briefly hitting 80 US cents) and improving labour market conditions.
However, this was not enough to boost consumer sentiment — with much of the weakness coming from insipid wage growth, higher electricity costs and concerns about rising interest rates.
The August drop in consumer sentiment may also be due to a "delayed reaction to recent mortgage rate increases" imposed by the banks on interest only loans in June.

"We have not seen such a succession of weak reads since 2008," Westpac observed in an economic note.
"The survey detail suggests increased pressures on family finances, concerns around interest rates, and housing affordability in NSW and Victoria are more than outweighing increased confidence around jobs."
This weak result is a stark contrast to NAB's July business survey, which showed that business conditions have risen to their "highest levels" since the global financial crisis.
Most consumers are expecting mortgage interest rates to rise next year.
Nearly three-quarters of those surveyed expect higher rates in the next 12 months, while 27 per cent expect them to remain steady and only 2.6 per cent expect them to fall.
However, one positive was the fact that fewer consumers expect unemployment to rise in the next year.
The survey's "Unemployment Expectations Index" fell to its lowest level since November 2011 — down 2.6 per cent to a reading of 132.5.
There was also slightly improved sentiment in regards to consumers' future intentions to buy property.
The "time to buy a dwelling" index lifted by 0.8 per cent, but Westpac said this was "at a low level by historical standards".
Buyer sentiment fell to "very low levels" in Sydney and Melbourne, which have the nation's most expensive property prices.
Conversely it rose in Western Australia, which has seen the sharpest fall in property prices, making it a much more affordable proposition.
Westpac's forecast is that the Reserve Bank will keep the official cash rate on hold throughout 2018-19 due to slow growth and below-target inflation.
"Ensure no family pays a cent more for electricity than it needs to," is Malcolm Turnbull's message to power companies today.
The Prime Minister called the power companies to Canberra this morning for a meeting to direct them to do more to help people with their bills.
He has challenged the companies over reports consumers go from discounted power contracts to higher-priced rates without being told.
"Australia is blessed with abundant energy so it is simply not good enough that some families and businesses cannot always afford to turn on their lights, heating and equipment," Mr Turnbull wrote to the companies when he ordered them to today's meeting.
He has called for urgent action from energy retailers to make sure people know what the bill will be after a discount period ends.
A report by the Energy Markets Commission found consumers are paying significantly more than they need to, partly because they don't get the information they need.
Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg said the Government could bring prices down.
The Energy regulator found households could make big savings if they were prepared to switch provider or change contracts.
It said there would be savings of up to $900 a year for Queenslanders, $1,400 for people in New South Wales and $1,500 for South Australians if they switched from the worst offer available to the best.
Mr Turnbull threatened the Government could use regulation to force companies to do more.

Greens MP Adam Bandt argued reregulation was the best way to drive down prices.
He dismissed the effectiveness of trying to talk to the companies at a meeting.
"Simply jawboning the retailers won't help," Mr Bandt said.
"States and territories, where regulation of prices is still in place, generally have lower prices.
"It is time Malcolm Turnbull put the rest of the states on notice that they need to act and that if they won't, he will.
"Deregulating electricity prices has failed. It is time the Government stepped in and capped electricity prices.
"The role of Government is to act in the best interests of the people and it's time to admit that competition has failed to deliver electricity that is cheap and clean."
It doesn't matter how sick you are, how much money you have or who you know — you cannot get a commercial flight out of Yemen's main airport.

Access to Yemen, classified as the world's worst humanitarian disaster, is heavily restricted and for the past year it's main airport has been forced shut by a Saudi-led coalition that has been bombing the country.
That has slowed down aid, trapped millions of people and stopped commercial activity.
The United Nations has called for the Saudi-led coalition to ease its 12-month blockade of Yemen's main airport so the sick and injured can get out and aid can get in.
Care International's Wael Ibrahim, the country director in the Yemen capital Sanaa, described the blockade as "collective punishment for people in Yemen".
"There is absolutely no justification for the airport to continue to close," he said.
"It serves no purpose except people's suffering."

The Saudi-led coalition that has been bombing Yemen shut down the Sanaa airport a year ago because it was in a territory controlled by its opponents, the Houthi rebels, claiming it needed to be closed due to security concerns.
Since then the only flights the Saudis have allowed in and out of the airport are UN, Red Cross or Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) humanitarian flights.
Yemen's other airports are a 10-to-20-hour drive away from the capital, a trip Mr Ibrahim described as risky, involving crossing several frontlines.
"There is the risk of you travelling through where there are different armed groups and be subject to harassment, or worse," Mr Ibrahim said.
"You can never know if your name is on some list and if somebody is looking for you.

"In addition to the considerable time that it takes them — it's a rough journey."
But the airport's closure does not just trap millions of people, Mr Ibrahim said it also prevents the free movement of commercial and humanitarian goods.
"The commercial sector is unable to bring in goods, unable to bring in medical supplies, bring in money," he said.
"Sick people are unable to travel for medical treatment."
Crucial aid now has to go through several diversions before it can get to where it needs to go.
"Each flight takes lots of logistics and additional cost, because we have to charter planes rather than be able to use the commercial flights that used to come regularly to Yemen," Mr Ibrahim said.
The closure comes as Yemen is on the brink of famine, with 20 million people in need of food aid. One in three children have severe malnutrition and the health system is collapsing.
The Yemeni Ministry of Health estimated 10,000 people had died because they could not get specialist treatment inside the country, nor could they be flown out to other locations.

Jamie McGoldrick, the UN's top aid official in Yemen, said the UN had been lobbying the Saudi-led Coalition and Yemen's exiled Government in Aden to reopen the airport.
"We continue to advocate to all the parties involved in this and the people who control the airspace, the people in Riyadh, the people in Aden, to help alleviate the suffering," he said.
"It's like being caught up in a fortress mentality that you can't escape from.

"This has become a tactic of the war in itself and I think [it] is really unfair.
"It's important that the international community hears about it — this is yet another aspect to how difficult it is to live or work or breathe in the Yemen context."
He said if the Saudis insist security remains the issue, all patients could be checked on the way out.
"Even we would like to propose, and we have done, to have a humanitarian flight once or twice a week to allow patients to come out," Mr McGoldrick said.
"They would have to stop off in Saudi Arabia anyway and be seen in terms of who is on that plane in terms of if it can go on further.
"So for us it would be an easy way to alleviate the suffering of many people here who need medical treatment."
The Saudi-led coalition has not yet responded to the UN proposal.
Australian shares are heading for a lacklustre open when the ASX opens for business.

SPI futures are trading flat as Wall Street retreated from its nine-day winning streak.
Commonwealth Bank has posted a full-year profit of $9.93 billion as its fights off allegations that it breached anti-money laundering laws,
In local economic news, June's housing lending figures (courtesy of the Bureau of Statistics) and August's consumer sentiment survey (by Westpac-Melbourne Institute) are out today.
China will also be releasing some economic data — its consumer price index and produce price index — which could affect the Australian stock market's movements.
"China's CPI is expected to remain unchanged at 1.5 per cent in July," said NAB currency strategist Rodrigo Catril.
"While expectations for the PPI reading are for a small uptick to 5.6 per cent from 5.5 per cent."
US stocks were on track to post fresh records until a late-afternoon sell-off occurred.
Investors became jittery after US President Donald Trump issued a stern warning to North Korea — that its threats would be "met with fire and fury" like the world has never seen.
Mr Trump was responding to reports that North Korea may already have developed miniaturised nuclear weapon that can fit inside its missiles.
Earlier, Pyongyang said it was ready to give Washington a "severe lesson" with its strategic nuclear force in response to any US military action.
The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), which measures fear in the market, closed at 10.96 —  its highest reading in about a month.
The Dow Jones, S&P 500 and Nasdaq finished the day with trading losses.
Almost every sector finished in negative territory, except for utilities. The biggest losses were in the healthcare and basic materials sectors.
However, the US had some positive economic news in regards to the labour market.
Job openings spiked to a record high of 6.2 million in June, according to latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
This is an increase from 5.7 million on the last business day of May.
The Commonwealth Bank has announced a full-year after-tax profit of $9.93 billion, a 7.6 per cent rise.
The rise in profit comes as Australia's biggest bank faces allegations its intelligent deposit machines were used by money launderers and criminal gangs.
With anti-money laundering agency AUSTRAC launching its court action just last week, the likelihood of penalties in the millions, or potentially billions, of dollars has not affected CBA's 2017 financial year results.
The company's preferred measure of cash profit, which excludes a range of one-off and accounting items, grew a smaller 4.6 per cent to $9.88 billion.
A reduction in bad debt costs, to just over a billion dollars, and cost-cutting helped the bank achieve much of its rise in profit.

It also reported a 4.3 per cent increase in banking revenue, thanks to growth in home and business lending, as well as deposits.
CBA said its independent rate rises, particularly on investor and interest-only home loans, were more than offset by higher wholesale funding costs and increased competition in the lending market, leading to a small reduction in its net interest margin.
The net interest margin is the gap between the rate the bank pays to borrow money at and the rate it lends it out at, and its key source of profit.

The rise in profit has allowed the Commonwealth Bank to increase its payout to shareholders from a total of $4.20 last financial year to $4.29 in 2017.

The modest 2.1 per cent rise in shareholder payments likely reflects CBA's need to increase its capital — or safety reserves to protect against severe losses — in light of tougher regulatory requirements being phased in by the bank regulator, APRA.
At 10.1 per cent, CBA is currently short of APRA's proposed 10.5 per cent requirement, which will take force from January 1, 2020.
As part of its profit announcement, CBA also revealed that John Symond had exercised an option to sell his remaining 20 per cent stake in Aussie Home Loans to the bank.
The Commonwealth Bank is scheduled to take full ownership of Aussie Home Loans by late August.
Commonwealth Bank shares were up 1.1 per cent to $81.57 by 10:28am (AEST), as the result slightly exceeded market expectations.
The Commonwealth Bank's board has continued to try and manage the intense public fallout from CBA's latest scandal, where tens of millions of dollars in criminal proceeds were allegedly laundered through the bank's so-called Intelligent Deposit Machines (IDMs).

The money laundering is alleged to have occurred over several years and despite repeated warnings from the Australian Federal Police that it was taking place.
However, CBA's chairman Catherine Livingstone said in a statement that it was only brought to the board's attention in the second half of 2015.
She said at that point CBA "promptly" fixed the coding error, which appears somewhat at odds with AUSTRAC's Federal Court statement of claim.
Ms Livingstone said that there had since been a change in senior leadership in key roles related to financial crimes compliance and risk management.
She also said that the bank had recruited more than 50 financial crime compliance professionals and invested $40 million in new financial crime monitoring technology — which raises the question of whether CBA had seriously under-invested in this area prior to this case being brought to its attention.

The board has already cut its own directors' fees by 20 per cent and removed the short term bonuses of senior executives for last financial year, but Ms Livingstone did not rule out further sanctions.
"As the board considers the substance of AUSTRAC's claims, it will take an active role in addressing any further management accountability for the alleged actions or omissions," she said.
"The board notes that it has no reason to believe that the allegations arose from deliberate or unethical behaviour, or any commercial motive."
As he painstakingly creates his intricate Torres Strait Islander designs telling the stories of his ancestors dating back for millennia, artist Laurie Nona stealthily incorporates unique markings that act as a sort of barcode, to deter would-be counterfeiters.
"Nobody's got a fingerprint like yours. From the grassroots, that's how we come to protect our own work and find out these people who are fakes," he said.
"You are self-patenting… so you have evidence to say, 'this is my work'."
Mr Nona is part of a movement to battle those who create works masquerading as traditional Aboriginal designs, which are not protected as intellectual property under Australian law.

As the annual Darwin Aboriginal Art Fair kicks off this weekend, showcasing the works of 66 art centres from across Australia, buyers are being urged to purchase ethically in the face of companies creating mash-ups of Indigenous designs and mass-producing them in Asia before selling them through Australian tourist shops.
"If someone copied someone's original artwork and put it on a shirt it's an infringement, but if somebody gets a factory in China to make a pastiche of Aboriginal design, but not copying anyone directly, that's not protected," Indigenous Art Code CEO Gabrielle Sullivan said.
The sale of fake Indigenous art is an insidious practice that, while not illegal, is immoral, she said.
"It violates culture, it's taking the economic opportunity away, but it's also taking control of that resource that's [the artist's] to manage and they've got no say in how that's done," she said.
Indigenous art is defined by the way it represents a cultural connection to country, said Mr Nona, and it's "ridiculous" that intellectual property has no legal protection.

"Art is our story, it's our identity, it's who we are, it's a living culture," he said.
He urged the Federal Government to develop more stringent protections for artists.
"It really takes the core out from inside of you, it just really dampens the spirit because you're telling your true story, and here are people taking patterns and colour just for the sake of creating a fake image so they can make money," Mr Nona said.
"It really gets under your skin that some fake-arse is taking something they have no connection to, they have no idea what it means.
"They're stealing, they're insulting, you name it. They're doing everything wrong."

The Rocks, Circular Quay, and Paddy's Markets, in Sydney, Melbourne's Swanston Street, the city centres of Cairns, Darwin, and Alice Springs: all are high-end tourist locations that sell imitations of Indigenous art, Ms Sullivan said.
She was dismayed to find the sheer quantity of works appropriating Aboriginal culture available for sale.
When asked, some store owners "were really honest and said, 'it's not from here, it's from Bali in Indonesia'," she said.
"One shop in Melbourne actually said, 'there's two shelves of stuff that's authentic, the rest of it's not'."
Ms Sullivan is lobbying the Federal Government on behalf of artists across the country for greater protection of their culture and works.
"There's a lot of crap out there," she said.
Often, consumers may not know how to spot the difference between an authentic work and a knock-off, she said, or they think that the real deal is too expensive.
"That's a myth," Ms Sullivan said.
"A fake didgeridoo they're selling for $400, but you can get a genuine yidaki from Buku-Larrnggay Mulka (Art Centre) in Yirkala for $400, or from Beswick for $200.
"In many instances there is an authentic alternative, and if there's not it's probably because the product's so gammon anyway; there's no Aboriginal wine bottle holder."

The fake trade doesn't just have an economic effect, but can also disrupt cultural practices, said Abe Muriata, an artist with Girringun Arts in northern Queensland.
"It does a lot of damage... Our young kids, they can see a beautiful artwork in the shops in town, and they can say to themselves, 'I can do that and make money out of that'," he said.
"It's history, it's a tradition that is ancient, and if we lost that, it's very sad."
He said there needed to be a concerted effort to educate consumers to avoid buying inauthentic goods.
"I think about [artists] really being exploited, their culture being exploited… it hurts them," he said.
"It just robs the people… There's no culture in that, it's only greed."
He warned the Federal Government that protecting Indigenous art was about protecting heritage for all Australians.
"That's the heritage of Australia, you know, 60,000 years old, don't let it go down the gurgler," he said.

The Darwin Aboriginal Art Fair (DAAF), emphasises ethics in the trade and is seen by artists as a supportive place to sell their works, usually via their community art centres.
The fair helped promote their art, with a goal of long-term economic sustainability, but executive director Claire Summers said she worried about the vulnerability of artists who were not connected to art centres.
"An artist has the right to be represented to ensure their work is sold in an ethical way, and if an artist doesn't know what their rights are then they might not know that they're being ripped off," she said.
"When you're buying direct from an artist on the side of the road, you don't know anything about that piece of work, you don't know where that artist has come from… and you don't know if you're fairly paying that artist.
"That artist might just want $50 so they can go and get something to eat at the end of the day, but in actual fact they should have received $2,000 for that work."

Centres can foster artists' careers, catalogue their work, and record and preserve their cultural details such as their country, skin name, and moiety.
"It goes deeper than just a piece of art, this is about cultural preservation and respect for where that artist is from," Ms Summers said.
DAAF has grown from showcasing 16 art centres in its first year to hosting 66 this year; in 2016, more than 10,000 people visited the fair, and bough a record $2 million worth of art.
One hundred per cent of that goes back to art centres and artists, Ms Summers said.
Artist Regina Wilson, from Durrmu Arts in Peppimenarti, said that art was a key way for culture and traditional stories to be passed along generations.
"I would like to tell the tourists, if they buy a painting have respect for what they're buying and give the artists really good money for it and look after it in a special way."
